ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on children's removals. I would like to welcome the directors of trade-K: the Prime Minister, the Minister for Legal Protection, the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Secretary of State for Fees and Customs. You're very welcome. The same goes, of course, for the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate in a different way. There are many speakers and there are many rulers. I would like to meet with you: four questions or comments to each other and six to the rulers. I have taken into account that this is going to be a long debate. I have therefore cleared out the agenda tonight so that we have enough time to conclude this debate today. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. More than 1,675 children who are victims of the surcharge scandal have been removed from the home by the judge since 2015. This is the tip of the iceberg of great human suffering for parents and children. The so-called voluntary removals have not been taken, nor do removals for 2015; they are thousands of extra children. This suffering comes on top of poignant poverty, coercive measures, home expulsions, homelessness, depression and more. The rule of law has not been a shield for these people but a meat grinder. Stories of these parents and children go through marrow and bone, as the survey showed the parents themselves. A mega-claim from the Tax Administration works like a snowball: debts, home evictions, stress, emotions, and then the State that takes your kids away, sometimes with multiple police officers. Some parents have not known where their child is for years, or may have contact for up to an hour now and then, but not when they tweet about the supplement scandal. In November, the Chamber asked for an independent investigation and proposals for the reunification of parents with children. Neither are there. There is only an investigation by the Justice and Security Inspectorate, but it has allowed this to happen for ten years. He hasn't intervened in ten years. I don't want a second Donner investigation. The cabinet has resigned, many promises have been made and excuses have been made, but no child has yet returned from the actions of the cabinet, no child. However, there are fire letters from about every professional, from the Ombudsman and even from the entire judiciary. I've listed 30 distress signals in a note. Mr. Chairman. There are two problems today that are crying out for a solution. One: the parents and the kids in the supplemental scandal. And two: the system of removals on its own. There's no legal protection there. Children are sometimes placed with a phone call from home. My questions to the Prime Minister. What have you done since it became known in October 2021? What do you say to the parents in the public gallery and at home? What can they expect from you, more than two years after you first met them in De Broodfabriek? Can they expect anything? When can they have contact with their children and when will their financial problems be resolved? Is the system of removals still in place, and can I ask you to call all four directors an expert who considers that this is legally satisfactory? When are we gonna get a response to the judge's letter of fire? And would you like to send a monthly update on the progress of the premium affair? To the Minister of Justice. Why is there no independent investigation, as requested by the entire Chamber? Why isn't there a team with perseverance? Why do the parents have to sue again to get a child back, even though they already have to go to UHT, even if they have to go to the municipality? You're fully committed to solving the problems caused by the state. To the Secretary of State for Health, who deals with youth: why did the Youth Inspection drop out of the investigation at once? Does the Netherlands fulfil Article 8 of the ECHR, the right to family life? Does the Netherlands comply with the international conventions on removal? Government, I'm about to present an own-initiative paper with about four colleagues with seven recommendations on how you can solve things. I would like to have an answer to those seven recommendations within a few weeks. These recommendations concern, among other things, a note which the Chamber itself asked for. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. There is a question from Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Good questions from Mr Omtzigt, as always. An own-initiative paper containing seven recommendations or solutions: can Mr Omtzigt explain them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	Yes. We've had a factsheet from Professor Bruning, among others. It has shown in fifteen pages how our system of removals does not work at all. My first recommendation will be: not a new advisory committee, but implement all its opinions. The second recommendation is: carry out the Omtzigt motion. Set up an independent investigation into how the whole scandal could have happened, because the rule of law has been completely derailed. Three: add professionals, including judges, lawyers, pedagogues, psychologists and orthopedagogues, so that a team has a perseverance force. Then parents should not only be able to tell their story, because they can do so anywhere, but it should also help them to be reunited with their children in the short term, perhaps with a transitional arrangement. That won't happen in one day, but don't let them go to court. Four: the judges must reflect on their own roles. Given what I read yesterday, it really can't be any longer that they say they have abdominal pain. Five: a hotline for citizens. 75% of children in youth care have been physically or mentally abused or witnessed. According to Professor De Winter, that's what's going on. That's gonna have to be picked up. There must be a place where these signals can not only be reported, but can also be resolved. Six: Take over the RSJ's recommendation on the under-supervisory situation in full. And seven, just make sure you take care of it legally for once. Every professional now has an interest in getting the child out of the house, because if something happens at home, they are responsible and held liable. What's going on in the institution? Then no one is liable. It's a way for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Let's talk about the hotline. I find that interesting in itself. What is Mr Omtzigt's view of such a hotline?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Well, basically, there should have been one of the two inspections, of course. They should have a hotline where you can report: violence has been used. There are more than 7,000 people who have reported after the reports of the De Winter Committee. They all get $5,000. Some people get that they've been abused for ten years. Maybe that should be a separate number with some new people, with one of those two supervisors. They can therefore monitor these individual cases and pass it on to the police if something is really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	Just one last question. Mr Omtzigt also mentioned the judges in the list. I would really like to explain this, because he only mentioned it in a short sentence. How does Mr Omtzigt see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	The judges sent ten abdominal pain files to the Chamber yesterday. But a judge makes a ruling. If a judge thinks they don't have enough evidence or statements, then the judge should just say: I don't make a ruling or make an interim ruling; I request information. In the report Unfamiliar injustice has been told that the judges have not complied with the general principles of good administration. I do not think that as a Member of Parliament I am talking about judges, but now that the judges themselves say so, I would call on the judges to carry out an in-depth investigation of this matter themselves. Secondly, I ask the government to involve this in the State Rule of Law Committee and therefore to forward yesterday's annual report to the State Rule of Law Committee. I would also like an answer, of course, to the letter of fire which has been in the cabinet since March. A letter of fire from the entire judiciary to the entire cabinet is quite something in the trias politician.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for stimulating this debate and for his fine contribution, as far as I am concerned. These are all good suggestions: we need a hotline, we need research. But shouldn't we go on as a Lower House now? Is it not a question to Mr Omtzigt that we need to beat up piket poles and that we need, for example, to come up with motions which say that children can never be placed out of the house again, against the wishes of the parents, for example for financial reasons? I can't wait to see how you feel about that. So it is a matter of really coming here tonight with a number of protective measures, I would almost say, to protect parents from those institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	These measures cover one whole page. They're in Professor Bruning's factsheet. That is what she is proposing. By the way, Forum rightly points this out here. Under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, whether you are very much in favour of it or not, we will not be discussing that today. That is why I ask the Secretary of State for Youth whether we are complying with that convention. If not, he will have to send a letter to Strasbourg. But I expect that the government will simply accept these recommendations in their entirety, and that we will force them to do so differently, I hope, with a broad majority here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	Very nice, and very nice to hear that here. I would urge you to table a motion, otherwise we will do so in order to put some of these points to the vote in the second term. I think this would be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yeah, and we'll make our own bill if we have to. I'm done. I'm done. I think it is time we made a big project of the removals and on the next case where something goes wrong, perhaps already today, some people are going to hear under oath about what exactly happened here. You can't put 1,600 kids out of the house without consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Omtzigt also indicated that he is a bit done with these half-hearted investigations. He said there really needs to be another investigation. What is the importance of an independent investigation and how should it be adapted to its insights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	The importance of an independent investigation is to see how the rule of law derails. I have reason to believe that profiling lists have also been used in youth care. Profiles. I call the words "ethnic profiling" a little less than you, but there are certain ticks. If you had four of them, you'd be in danger. Financial problems. A single parent. You name it all. Not speaking Dutch. That's what it said. Then you know exactly which groups are affected before. The worst thing, of course, is that no one wanted this, but that our rule of law was not only derailed from the Tax Office, but also from the removals. There will therefore be many deeper causes, such as data sharing and non-protection of individual citizens' rights vis-à-vis the State. I want to have that sorted out, and that is separate from the solutions that we can start with today. So it's not an investigation that has to take place before we can help these families, these children and these parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	Another issue is the rule of law. Mr Omtzigt is, like me, really worried about that. You can see that for some of the parents there was no de facto rule of law; that is also stated in the report Unfamiliar injustice. Well, the Ombudsman wrote yesterday: in fact, the cabinet has just been playing a little thumbs-up over the past year. They didn't move. No progress has been made. How does Mr Omtzig look at the importance of protecting the democratic rule of law, including, for example, access to justice, good legal protection, and a cabinet that has just lost a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	The Ombudsman's report is very worrying about the rule of law. I also hope that the government will give a full answer. On the subject of removals... By the way, the judiciary gave ten examples yesterday. That was also about driving licences, about people who suddenly ran out of driving licences and so watched their entire existence thunder together. The government is doing something about that now. But if it does not, we will have to come up with own-initiative legislation and then we will have to enforce it here as a Chamber. As I said, I think it's time for a major project to solve the supplement scandal. The waiting lists last more than a year. The government has set aside 70 million to pay 50,000 parents all €1,400. You're thinking, "That's nice." No, they get that because the government doesn't decide in time. There is no longer any timely decision. Some people wait three years before they can see their files and take the next step in the process. If we carry on like this now, we will be finished in 2030 or 2035. Then certain parents are retired.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr Omtzigt, together with Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan, is the absolute expert on this dossier, but the supplement scandal is, of course, much bigger than the removals. So I wonder what else should happen in the supplemental scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	The interesting thing is, we don't even have everything on the table. For one example, the parent panel indicates that 2,000 parents have fled abroad. What needs to happen before you flee abroad is that you've been completely jammed by your own government. There's no clear help for that yet. As far as helping these people's homes is concerned, you know how difficult the housing is at the moment or the housing market, as some call it. It's not easy, but it's not going to happen. That is why we need to look at it in its entirety, but we are dealing with a derailed rule of law. That is why I propose that we, as a Chamber, turn it into a major project, also because expenditure and expenditure on equipment into billions and the problems are not solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	Is this derailed rule of law not simply the result of the fact that we are in a kind of tendency in which the government is getting bigger, more powerful and more dominant, which makes it increasingly difficult for us to control that government? Do you agree with me that this movement is dangerous and that we must somehow reduce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes. There's no equality or arms with the government. That means you don't know how the decisions are made. You can see that the government becomes powerful by using algorithms without anyone knowing and by using blacklists, which are completely against the law and which contain 300,000 people who are simply not informed. Their lives can be destroyed, but they can't even know they're being accused of anything. At only 4%, they were able to show that these people were fraudsters, not even 96%. That government doesn't work because we've abolished all the counters where people can come in. A former Secretary of State said here, "Call the Tax Phone." But the Tax Phone doesn't solve it. The government must return to its citizens and must really serve as a shield for the weak, which it is not doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say something to the parents in the public gallery and at home. I imagine it would take a lot of courage to come here or to listen to us, while you have experienced an incredibly traumatic event, namely the removal of your children. Let me say first of all that whatever we say here today can never make up for the suffering that has been done to you. What we can do is listen, address the cabinet and make proposals to improve the situation. That's what we're gonna do here today. Mr. Chairman. I will be honest: it is good that we are talking today about the problems surrounding removals, but at the same time it also feels very harsh. I have been trying for five years, since I was in the Chamber, to draw attention to this problem, to the painful fact that we have been putting too many children out of the house in the Netherlands for years, that the way in which this is happening is not correct, that there is hardly any legal assistance for parents, and that children find themselves in the wrong place and sometimes in an unsafe place because of a failing youth system. Yet there was always no attention here but also support, because if you do not have to deal with it yourself, then you don't know how touching such a removal is. Then you don't know what that does to your life, to your family. Then you have no idea what it feels like to be alone in front of a powerful government that you're already losing it from in advance. This is true both in the case of the allowance affair and in the case of the problems of youth care and youth protection. The people who make the decisions are far too far away from the problems. They often don't know enough what's going on and have too little empathy. Mr. Chairman. Let me give you an example of this. The cabinet says to support the parents with free legal aid if they want to challenge a removal. That's very nice, but what does it turn out to be? It's not free at all. There will be a subsidy scheme for legal aid itself, but the costs of the registration fees simply have to be paid by parents themselves. The cabinet states in the letter that low-income parents can apply to their municipality for special assistance for the costs of the registry. This really is a perfect example of how public opinion is thought rather than from the parents themselves. It shows a total lack of empathy if you let these parents, who have been through so much and who have been moustered, make the corridor to the municipality again. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State for Legal Protection to resolve this, because I find this simply embarrassing. Mr. Chairman. This happens all the time. In July 2020 I tabled a motion together with former colleague Wörsdörfer. In it we asked for a very concrete plan to reduce the number of removals. We asked for targets and concrete targets. The whole Chamber supported that motion, because everyone recognised its importance. After that, nothing happened to it at all. In November 2021, a year and a half after this motion was adopted unanimously, there was one expert meeting. What came out of that meeting? That steps had to be taken throughout the chain. That doesn't take an expert meeting, does it? We've known that for years, haven't we? Why has it taken so long to implement, or rather not carry out, such an important motion? I would like to ask the Minister for Legal Protection whether he considers this to be an implementation of this motion at all and whether he agrees with me that this shows exactly the total lack of urgency for this problem. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to this week's replies to the report on violence in youth care. In that I read that the cabinet says: we have taken the recommendations of the committee to heart. I think this is playing with the truth, because I had that debate on violence in the youth care sector, in which a reluctant VVD minister showed no awareness of the problems and in which coalition parties then blocked our proposals to protect victims. That's why the answers we got last week stopped me like this. Each time, we are thrown away with action programmes, with future visions and with long-term plans, but that is not necessary at all. I do not want long-term plans, because we know exactly what is needed and what should happen. I make a few suggestions and I hope for a concrete response. I want an acceleration around the support team, so that the parents get help quickly, but I also want this help to be wider, so that other parents with children who are placed out of the home get help and legal protection. Why isn't it arranged right away that every parent and every child in the courtroom gets a lawyer for a removal? We don't have to evaluate that for a year first. And why doesn't the urgency framework be banned if everyone finds that this seriously affects the legal status of parents? I want the parents to be listened to and honest. Let them know where they stand and if they have a chance of reuniting with their child, but do not make false promises that cannot be fulfilled. I would like to ask Minister Weerwind and Secretary of State Van Ooijen whether they can both mention three specific points at human level in this debate. I don't mean studies, long-term plans, evaluations or visions of the future. I would like to hear three very specific points. What are they going to do concretely in the coming year to improve the situation surrounding removals? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to address the Prime Minister, because both the extremely worrying state of youth care and youth protection as well as the premium affair have arisen under his reign. I would like to ask him whether he feels responsible for the fact that families have been ripped apart and that children have not been adequately protected, when we have known this for years. His cabinet didn't do anything about this. How does he feel that judges in the democratic rule of law who should be the Netherlands should warn that parents and children are under-protected from the powerful government? Isn't he ashamed of that? And is he not ashamed of the fact that the cabinet, while everything is going wrong, has also announced an additional half a billion cuts in youth care in the coalition agreement? Mr. Chairman. A lack of legal protection affects the foundations of our rule of law. I want to know from the Prime Minister whether he agrees with me that we should protect the rights of the most vulnerable people in a democracy. What is he going to do, as the final manager, to make concrete improvements to this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I give the floor to Mrs Arib of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. More than two years ago, dozens of parents were sitting here in the public gallery that were mangled by the Tax Administration for years. It was an emotional debate. The responsible Secretary of State has resigned, the cabinet has resigned and the Prime Minister has apologized. The problems would be solved and the parents would be justiced. But there they are again, in the public gallery. Not only did they lose their homes and jobs, but their children were also taken from them. Families ripped apart by government action. A tragedy they now carry with them for life. An unprecedented violation of the rights of these parents and children. This cabinet must be deeply and deeply ashamed. More than 1,600 children of victims of the supplement affair were placed out of the house between 2015 and 2021. Is this just the tip of the iceberg? How many children are we talking about if we look before 2015? What the cabinet has done so far is too little and too late. Only well-intentioned and necessary excuses have nothing to do with the duped parents. The Minister for Legal Protection always emphasizes that the removals were not only due to the surcharge affair, but that's what the drama started with, as the Kinderombudsman said. First of all, I would like to ask the Cabinet and, in particular, the Minister for Legal Protection. Just assume that this drama is from the government. And if that is not the case for once, try to restore the bond between parent and child. It's just a matter of planning so far. We read that the support teams offer a listening ear and map out the call for help. But in the meantime, there are hardly any children back with their parents. We are still getting poignant stories from desperate parents who are not even allowed to have contact with their children. Striking stories of parents walking up against a wall of fine words and bureaucracy. How is it that so little happens? Restoring the bond between parent and child should be the first, second and third priority of the support teams. They must be given perseverance with which they can convince and overrule the existing authorities. As far as I am concerned, the directors present here are themselves handling a large number of the harrowing issues. Can the Secretary of State for Legal Protection undertake to do so? That also helps with the next problem. The assessment should not be made by the same institutions that had the child removed from the home. Logically, the trust is away from the parents. How's the Minister gonna fix this? Is there going to be an independent, external review? I understand that the Minister has now made sure that all the files are reviewed. But that's not enough. I do not want us to conclude here in six months' time that nothing has happened again. Can the Minister promise that the Chamber will be given an overview of progress every three months? This means that I want to know the outcome per file. Of course we do not have access to the files, but I can expect the Minister to at least know these files and to provide us with an anonymized overview of what agreements were made per file. And can parents finally be clear about what happened and how they acted? This is the time to open the files from cover to cover, for the victims. Then the judge's letter of fire. It makes it painfully clear how the protection of citizens by the rule of law has fallen through the ice. Lack of money and capacity are destroying lives. Even as we speak to the minister here, a child can still be removed from his or her parents without proper justification. Can the Minister promise that things will be put in order and at what time? Because the last letter, yesterday's letter, says that contact is being sought, but no time limit is mentioned. The suffering that the government has caused these people is so great, so ugly and so comprehensive that no form of compensation is appropriate. The cabinet's inability to do justice to this is blatantly embarrassing. I assume that the cabinet is not only going to apologize for its own failure, but is now going to make real work of restoring the bond between these parents and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mrs Arib. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "I had to come to school. At school, I was told that I couldn't take care of my son anymore, that it would be better for my son if he moved in temporarily with his father. I didn't know what happened to me. I didn't realize until I walked back home that my life was a nightmare from that moment on. After all, I was affected by the surcharge scandal and as a result became so terribly ill that I could no longer manage to organize the household properly at home. I've asked for help everywhere, even at the G.D.D., but no one wanted to help me. My life not only became a nightmare when I heard that I couldn't see my son anymore, because a month later I couldn't call my son and there was no contact at all. Until it became clear to the outside world that I was victimized, duped, in the supplemental scandal. Then the file was suddenly closed and then it would be safe at home again, while, of course, the circumstances had not changed. I couldn't get legal assistance in the meantime either, because I couldn't pay my own contribution and it was said: judges don't do truth finding anyway. Now I see my son about a day and a half in the month, and sometimes half a vacation. Every time he's there, I realize I have to get to know him over and over again." This is one of the many stories of parents affected by the supplement scandal and what they experience with their children. This is Janet's story. Janet is also present today in this debate. The wretched thing is that the Rutte III cabinet fell and resigned because of this surcharge scandal. In the meantime, the cabinet has made a start and there is a Rutte IV cabinet, but people's problems have still not been resolved. I ask the Prime Minister how he feels about this and whether he realizes what it does with the confidence that people can still have in government, politics and cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Our social services have been neglected. I think we can say that. That's what youth care workers say. There is not enough time to do the job properly and the workload is too high. The judges say the same thing. They say we're not getting enough good information and files. As a result, wrong decisions are taken, which have far-reaching consequences for people. Nevertheless, in all its so-called wisdom, this cabinet has invented that further savings can still be made on youth care. I would like to ask the cabinet today to come back to that and to make it clear that this austerity is not going to happen. There is a factsheet of several scientists who make it clear that there is a lack of legal protection in our country. They also make it clear that if you are affected by the supplement scandal as a parent or as a child, you are simply weak in relation to the power, in relation to the execution organisations. I want the Prime Minister to tell me how he looks at that. How does he, as a final controller, look at us living in what we call a rule of law, but what turns out to be such a substantial group anything but a rule of law, a group for which the rule of law does not seem to function at all? In fact, people get crushed by the system. Even worse: people just don't stand a chance in that system. Perhaps even worse: people's lives are simply deliberately destroyed. Everything they hold dear will be taken from them, from children to children. I'd like to know from the Prime Minister how he looks at that. Mr. Chairman. What should happen as far as we are concerned? A few things. One. We think that everything should be aimed at the children going home, unless. This means that there must be a situation, a plan, in which the home situation is arranged in such a way that children can go home. We need to get what's necessary for that. There must therefore also be a re-evaluation of all children who have been placed out of the house who are also victims in the supplement scandal. Two. We believe that we should stop red tape, send people from the locker to the wall, keep them on a leash and talk to them again. As far as we are concerned, there must be regional teams that can decide and resolve things that can do what is necessary to ensure that the home situation is as quickly as possible so that the children can return home. Three. There must be an independent, truly independent investigation into the extent and background of this scandal. Because we already know that this scandal is so much bigger than the 1,675 children that CBS came up with yesterday. For example, there hasn't been a judge involved in the story I started with, the story of Janet. So that story will not be part of those 1,675 children, just like all the removals before 2015, which we already know are not part of that 1,675. So we already know that this scandal is so much bigger. That must be revealed in an independent investigation. Four. As far as we are concerned, youth care should again be about caring for vulnerable children. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to wish the parents a great deal of strength today. I think we need to have this debate. But I also realize very well how much pain and grief this has to do to you now. We're not giving up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than a year ago, the Rutte III cabinet fell because of the unprecedented injustice that the government has caused in the surcharge scandal and because of the crushing of people in the bureaucratic mills of the authorities and their devastating effect on entire families. Almost 60,000 children have somehow fallen victim to the premium affair. Degraded parents experienced major financial problems with insoluble debts. They really lost everything: their home, their job, their marriage. Some parents even lost their most precious possession, their children. I can hardly imagine what that is like: being forced by the government not to raise your child at home, not being able to live at home as a child on the orders of a judge, as a parent feeling so forced to voluntarily choose to raise your child elsewhere and thus not to be the one who reads a story before bedtime and as a child no longer to be brought to school by your parents or to be picked up from friends. A home placement ruins life and tears a family apart. It's far-reaching, it's traumatic, and it's a horse cure for only situations where there's really no other way. Mr. Chairman. The government didn't just disrupt entire families by getting them into the ground financially. In those years, a further 1,675 children of the injured were forced out of their homes. According to experts, this is a strong overrepresentation that can hardly be a coincidence. This suggests a link between the financial suffering that the government has caused these families and the forced removal. Parents also indicate that the debts with which the Tax Administration saddled them were the root of all problems. That is unacceptable, because financial problems should never be a reason to take children away from their parents, not at all if these problems were caused by the same government. I fear that we are looking at the tip of the iceberg with the 1,675 children, because we do not know how many forced removals have taken place. We do not know how many removals have taken place before 2015. What we do know is that the government has failed hard and hard and that many political leaders are still there and have moved on to the order of the day. But in the meantime, daily life is still a struggle for many duped parents. When you talk to them, you feel their anger, their grief and their distrust. Their lives are still not in order. They miss their children. They lack precious moments and time that can no longer be overtaken. Mr. Chairman. In October last year, the Prime Minister promised to find out exactly what was going on. We've been almost seven months. What about it? Why haven't we at least re-evaluated the 555 on-going removals? Has a plan been drawn up for them? What happened to the detailed plan of parents to get the children home and where is this independent investigation? Why have seven precious months passed now and why should the doomed do it with a nationwide support team without a perseverance force? Mr. Chairman. Due to the slowness of the cabinet, not only precious time passes. There may also be legal deadlines that can distinguish between growing up at home and growing up elsewhere, in another family or in an institution, sometimes with a different name and sometimes without contact. You can't beat that, can you? Can the Minister indicate whether there have been cases involving the victims in which the last year the acceptable time limit for deciding where the child will grow up has expired? Mr. Chairman. The IRS took a lot of these people. This cabinet, with Prime Minister Rutte first, owes it to them to end the misery. It is important to ensure that, as the parent panel also says, all children go back as far as possible or that, at least directly, the contact and relationship is restored. That calls for action. So what's the Prime Minister gonna do for these people? Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that, after all these people have been through, there is great distrust, there is no confidence in Prime Minister Rutte's plans and that people no longer want to go to a public authority for help or something that reminds them of them. The Eigen Force Centrale supports some of the victims by drawing up a family plan aimed at restoring, contacting or returning to the network or in the family. They involve the parents, the child, family, neighbors and anyone who wants to help in the best interests of the child. My group would like to know from the Minister and the Secretary of State whether they can see opportunities for this independent foundation to be involved in the restoration and return, because the involvement of its own network can not only prevent removals, but can also contribute to the restoration of contact and reunification. Mr. Chairman. Hundreds of kids from duped parents aren't sleeping at home tonight. That's bad enough. As a blow to the flames we now hear how some others have perished during that removal. I quote: suspected sexual abuse by multiple foster parents; sexual abuse and all forms of abuse; isolation. How many times has this happened? How does the Minister ensure that the children who are still placed out of the house are spared this? Mr. Chairman. Recently thousands of youth care workers were demonstrating because there is too little money for their sector, the workload is too high and the waiting lists are too long. When will they finally be listened to? When will there be plans to improve the legal status of parents and children? If scientists can't rule out financial problems as a reason for a removal, what does this mean for all those people who now fear that they can't pay their bills anymore? Finally, Mr President. This Prime Minister's previous cabinet has resigned because of the scandal surrounding the surcharges. Now we have the scandal of the removals. I'd say fix it, figure it out and fix what's possible. Ensure that all ongoing removals are re-evaluated before 1 July, and that there is a plan for each child for possible re-establishment of contact and reunification. Otherwise, we will give up our trust in you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. For almost all parents that is the most vulnerable and dearest thing they have: children. Parents are willing to give up very much for their children, to go very far for their well-being. Raising isn't always easy. As the father of four children, I also experienced the necessary stress in dealing with my children. But it is only when the circumstances are so difficult that it becomes an inhuman task to take good care of the children. And that is exactly what has happened with regard to the removal of the children we are talking about today. The government has selected a group of Dutch people on the basis of a number of discriminatory factors. People with low incomes, often single women, and sometimes people with migrant origins were taken out. Then the unequal battle begins. The hunt for those parents was ruthless. The powerful officials of the Tax Administration have broken laws. There was a lie against judges. There were warrants and seizures, yes, even of cots. There were evictions, so parents don't have a roof over their heads. I spoke to parents who reported to all kinds of agencies, but because the Tax Administration had reported them there as a fraud, they didn't get a job, even if they had begged several times for it. The answer of the officials was sometimes: go to the Salvation Army with the children; stand in line for the food bank; you can also earn your money in prostitution, which is a legal profession. Not a shred of humanity! Not a moment of empathy! No sign of compassion! Mr. Chairman. That is the raw and hard reality for part of the parents. That is also the Netherlands that Rutte has been leading for eleven years: less access to law, more rules and protocols, steering efficiency and more market thinking. I know what Rutte would say, namely: The Netherlands is a cool country. But not for those 100,000 Dutch people who have been hunted, who have been discriminated against, who have been stripped of their dignity and who have been humiliated for life. And then you have to go on living that life. You still have to fight for your kids, even when they're out of the house. I want to express my appreciation and respect for all those parents who have continued to do so. Because I give it to you to do, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I'd been able to go through with a superhuman effort, with a dent in confidence and with one scratch on the soul after another, because that's the only option. Part of those parents are sitting here and following this debate, because these parents are desperately clinging to everything they can find to get their children back. Stress, despair and depression! Parents say it was even suicidal thoughts. Under these circumstances, who would be able to raise their children? Mr. Chairman. If that is noted, as we did a month or seven ago, then the government seems to be constantly being attacked. Political responsibility is always untraceable, lost somewhere between steering committee, task force and committee of inquiry. 1,675 children were presumably placed out of the house as a result of the extracurricular crime. And no, it's not like debt is a reason to put your kid out of the house. But if debt ruins your life that way, it can also lead to removal. And how can it be that all kinds of government agencies, which for years had no problem sharing information they were allowed to share, never want to share the information with parents if they ask for it? How is it that at the UHT it takes three years to get your file? I am therefore looking at the Minister for Legal Affairs. What kind of legal protection is that? When does the Minister for Legal Protection stand up and say: until here and no further? If we have noticed this in the first report, if the Ombudsman finds it and if we now find it again, then we cannot say again here: we are going to do an investigation again, organise a support group and still see if we can grant them a lawyer? What does this minister actually think about the fact that there was no legal protection for these parents? And how is it that we're putting kids out of the house without talking to the parents? The parents are the most precious lost. It's every parent's nightmare. Mr. Chairman. I've noticed on my tour of lawyers that the first juvenile protection measure rarely involves a lawyer. I find that extremely problematic. Furthermore, I am still looking for the number of voluntary removals. The Minister states that this is untraceable. However, I read in the guidelines for removals that until 2015, an indication by the Youth Agency was needed for a voluntary removal. I would ask the Minister to go through all those certified institutions with the hat and pick it up. We can't just leave these people to their fate, can we? So I also want the figures on voluntary removals until 2015. For this, a decision by the municipality was required. I would also like to receive these figures. Finally, Mr President. The aim of the new Youth Act was to reduce the number of young people's removals. There would be close to the people-focused care at home. Yet it has only increased since then. I'm asking the Secretary of State to take a broad reflection on that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a final question to Secretary of State De Vries, who is also here. I wonder if the parents have reported this at any time in the integral assessments. What happened to that? Is there an overview of that? Is that what they've been acting on? I would also like a response from the Secretary of State to those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I give the floor to Mr Peters, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not a new but an incredibly sad conclusion: poverty and money problems play a role in 40% of the reports to the Council on Children's Protection. It is one of the biggest risk factors in educational difficulties. The council wrote that in 2016, but actually we've known that for hundreds of years. If money problems are the cause of educational stress, screening for child abuse is not the solution, but helping to ensure survival. The same applies to the children of the parents and that applies to everyone. My appeal to the cabinet is: take away the cause of raising stress from these people and work towards a solution to security of life problems, not only for families who have been in trouble because of the scandal of the supplements, but for all families within the youth protection system. First this, then full help, so help in the family and not the child out. Mr. Chairman. Over and over again, I hear that children's removals would be ruled out simply because of parents' debts and misery, but does the Minister support the statement that retirement is far too often a poor solution for poor people? And does the Minister agree with the CDA that in that case helping to solve the problems of subsistence can save incredibly much suffering, and is much cheaper too? Can the Minister explain why this is not happening on a large scale? Mr. Chairman. I believe the Minister when he says that there is also a hard work on a solution for children of child support parents, although it is certainly never fast enough and it is never good enough, but the problem is much bigger. If solutions can be found for children of supplemental parents, then solutions can be found for all families where security of life problems are the main cause of educational stress. Is the Minister prepared to take care of that? I'd like a firm commitment from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The youth protection chain is one of the most expensive and complex roundabouts in the Netherlands. You go from a notification at Safe Home, through the Children's Protection Board and the Juvenile Court to the certified institution, the specialized youth aid, and then to the district team, or vice versa, of course. There is a huge workload, constantly changing staff and a great deal of potential for errors, which are being corrected or not, and much too late the right help is being provided. In recent years, I have used every debate to try to tackle this roundabout. Minister Dekker has gone ahead with it. And well, eventually something might have happened here and there, but at least nothing substantial. The CDA wants this chain to be thoroughly reformed and the importance of the legal protection of parents and children to be stressed. I have another motion for that, another one on this point. Can the Minister guarantee that the interests of the organisation cannot in any case play any role in reforming that chain? Mr. Chairman. It is clear in the medical world: if in doubt do not intervene, because intervention may sometimes be necessary; at least it is always harmful. In the field of youth protection, we have forgotten this a little bit and we have already forgotten it in politics and in the media. If something goes wrong with a child somewhere, then we demand, even in this house, that there be no repetition, but at the same time we do not want to intervene too quickly. This double message makes the work for youth protectors even more complicated, because in the imaging you always intervene too early or too late. For the CDA, the message is clear: in doubt, you may offer help, but do not intervene. Not a measure, because not everything is preventable. And yes, in that case doing nothing is indeed an option. I ask the Minister to reflect on this statement. Mr. Chairman. Then the informal care. The CDA has written an initiative about its own mentor, the JIM. That's just a person who has the confidence of the young person in question, someone with enough proximity not to leave and enough distance not to cry with the wolves in the forest. That could be a neighbor, trainer or aunt; it doesn't matter. Give such a support figure an important role, similar to that of the aid provider, not to take over tasks of aid workers, but to decide what is best for the child and for the family. Last weekend Coen Verbraak interviewed a mother and her son on Radio 1, who had been out of the house for more than four years. The boy of 14 was finally allowed to return to his mother, after he had run away again in the middle of the night and indicated to the family home that he could no longer be maintained. At home it has been a year and a half in collaboration with a self-chosen mentor, the godfather of the boy. Research shows that the use of such people makes for better decisions, fewer removals and more effective help. The CDA wants the use of a support figure to be the rule and no longer the exception. Is the Minister prepared to facilitate extensive research into this commitment and to legally require a support figure? I'd like a response. On this point, too, I have another motion for a resolution. Finally, Mr President. A child belongs to the parents: help in the home, not a child from home. A solution must be found not only for children of child support parents, but for all children in families where, for example, the real problem is a problem of living security. The youth protection chain should be organised more easily, effectively and with emphasis on the legal protection of parents and children. As a politician, we must give the clear message that not everything can be prevented and that every professional must also feel the space not to intervene. Finally, there should be standard work with a support figure from the child's environment, because that is what works. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Peters. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u35	I heard Mr Peters talk about educational stress due to insecurity of existence. Quite apart from the words chosen, and apart from the fact that if he wanted to do something about this insecurity of existence, I honestly do not understand why the CDA voted against our proposal to raise the minimum wage last Tuesday, which seems to me to be an excellent way of dealing with this insecurity of existence, my question is as follows. Yesterday, the numbers came from the CBS. That counter indicated 1,675 children who were both affected in the surcharge scandal and placed out of the house. That's a higher number than the number we've heard before. It thus seems that since Unknown injustice appeared and there is absolutely no one in the Netherlands who can say that he had no knowledge of the supplement scandal, the dropping of children has still gone on. What does Mr Peters think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u36	I believe that the removal of children from home in almost all cases, I think in 80% of the cases, can be avoided if you address security of existence problems in the family. If the water is up to your heart, if you are under stress or you can pay the bills, if you may have trouble with the language and you do not know where you can get help, then removing the causes of that stress and using integral help should, in my opinion, be able to prevent removals in almost all cases. So I'm sorry we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u37	I can see that I'm getting a really bad answer. I was just talking about the security of existence. Then I find it rather easy if you are blocking the increase in the minimum wage. But this is not about insecurity of existence due to low wages, this is about parents, families affected by the surcharge scandal, where the government and all the authorities around it, as well as the judiciary, have failed hard and people have been crushed in the system. So this isn't an educational stress, this is about people getting caught hard by the government. And everyone knew about it. Nevertheless, the removals continued. That is what I am asking Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yes, and Mr Peters answers: whether it's with the parents or with other parents, by whomever you've been put in trouble, if the water's up to your lips, you won't pull it anymore. Then I say: it's much more complicated and much more expensive to put a child out of the house, and incredibly much more harmful than to take that stress away from those people so that that child can stay in the house. So, yeah, it's very, very scandalous, too, that we didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u39	I hear Mr Peters say something about solutions for the children of the victims in the supplement scandal. But with all due respect, we've been seven months, and there's no beginning of a solution. I hear Mr Peters' story, although there are sympathetic ideas in it, and yet there is no beginning to be a solution. Those people were destroyed by your previous cabinet and your former prime minister. It is the expensive duty of this cabinet, of your cabinet, to repair that misery. We cannot wait another seven months until everyone reports to a support point that does not have a perseverance force and which they may not have confidence in. So what are your concrete solutions, including for those who sit here in the public gallery listening and who have lost their children? What are your solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u40	The truth is that a very simple solution cannot be as in: tomorrow all these children back, because I know exactly who they are and what the problems there are. But the truth is also that security of existence is the cause of the real problem and that we really know who it is for every child within youth protection. I think we should help all these parents in that respect and then have a plan to get their children back home as soon as possible. That's my solution. That is not an easy solution, because that will be individual customization for all those parents. That's a lot more than the 1,600 Mr. Omtzigt mentioned earlier. There are really many more parents whose children have been placed out of the house, where the real problem with which everything started is Mr.Azarkan knows it is also a security of existence problem. There's a lot more of them. A solution will have to be customized, but this is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u41	I do not think anyone here thinks that solutions are simple, because the problem that has been created here is huge, the problem for the parents, the problem also for the children. So no one claims it's simple, but it has to be solved. To be honest, I don't really care whether it's simple or not, but it's the duty of this cabinet, of your cabinet, to settle it. It has to be arranged for everyone, of course, because every parent and every child has the right to know what the fork is and what exactly happened here, but especially for those 555 children who are still out of the house there must be a solution. I suggest that we do not wait another seven months for this to happen, but that we give the Cabinet a deadline, as far as I am concerned, 1 July, to make sure that these matters are re-evaluated and that there is a plan for these parents and children to come to a recovery, restoration of contact and, if that is possible, reunification of the family.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u42	I also believe that there should be a plan for recovery and that this should be done now and that we should not wait seven months for it. So I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u43	I actually agree with almost everything you said, as I think everyone did, but they are of those generalities. We all know that debt relief is a problem. We all know that cooperation between housing corporations and municipalities is not always smooth, and so on. But the CDA has been calling this out over the past few years, and now we too, as a Chamber, want to put a point behind it, the poignant stories of parents who are powerless every time that they do not see their child. What exactly are you proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u44	In recent years, I have spoken here of every debate on youth protection about an incredibly expensive roundabout that we have, where we have made it so complicated that it can be organized much simpler, better and with the legal protection of the people. I tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. At the time, Minister Dekker was working on this, but nothing came of it, at least far too little. Yeah, that's terrible, that's a disaster. I also don't understand why that is. There can be all kinds of reasons for this; that can be complicated between different institutions to work together, maybe there are other interests involved. But I want to, of course, and I didn't say that for nothing. That's a big part of my story. If we have organized that chain so complicated and so ugly, then the problem will remain. So, yeah, it really has to be different, now, yesterday, tomorrow. I asked the Minister for a commitment. I hope I get this. Sorry, I have one more thing. If I wanted everything I had said here and whatever you agree with to be settled tomorrow, it would have been settled last year and so would the year before, because I have been saying this for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u45	When I hear you like that, I'm afraid I'm gonna lose my nerve. The CDA is in the government. The CDA has taken responsibility. You are actually being powerless, namely that you are in the government, but that you can't really mean anything, except empty words. I would like to make an urgent appeal to you. I know how involved you are. There's no doubt about that. I also know that a lot of good motions have been tabled from the CDA. But in this case, where parents always ring the bell and feel that powerlessness, I would like to make the following appeal to Mr Peters: finally mean something; come up with something concrete. Otherwise, I would like to invite the CDA to support the motions tabled by colleagues, which do make concrete proposals. Otherwise, it's unbelievable. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u46	It's a very special reaction. We agree on almost everything, I'd say. Firstly, I am not in the government, I say to Mrs Arib through the chairman. I'm trying to control the government, say what it lacks and ask for plans. I ask for concrete plans in the following area: let us tackle this roundabout and let us ensure that we bring in our own mentor, so that informal aid is concrete. I've taken initiatives for that. These were discussed here in the Chamber. Motions have been passed on that. If I had a magic wand, I'd have it. That's not powerlessness. I do feel powerlessness here when I hear from people who are in trouble. We've been talking about this for a hundred years. Not only do I feel that powerlessness, but so do you. Those are not empty words, but those are mean words. I really wish I could change things so fast, but I can't. I would like to support any motion that is justified. On the other hand, I would like to ask for my support. Let's force it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u47	When the cabinet fell, 420 children were placed out of the house. A year later, 555 children of this group were placed out of the house. This shows that the problems of children who are victims of the childcare allowance scandal become more than less over time. I agree with Mr Peters. There will be situations where immediate reunification is not possible. It's complicated. But on what date, according to the CDA, should there have been a re-evaluation of at least all children who have now been removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u48	A few things. First of all, I believe that the figures mentioned will change each time, because we know far too little about who they are. I've been making a lot of calls, including in the youth care country. There is simply not everywhere known what the underlying cause is that a child is placed out of the house. It's gonna be hard to figure that out. I therefore have the following proposal. We do know that problems of security of existence are a point. That's true with the parents and with a lot of other parents. Then let's treat them all this way. Let's ask the Minister how quickly he can do that. As far as I'm concerned, it's for summer or Prince's Day. I don't care, but as soon as possible and with the commitment of everything he has.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u49	I went to talk to CBS for hours. This is the best assessment that can be given. In fact, all children who have been recognised as victims in the childcare allowance scandal have been taken and the children who have been placed out of the house have been examined with a measure taken by the judge. That includes the children without any measure from the judge, so there are more of them. But those figures show a rising trend. I see here the support for Mrs Maeijer's proposal to have a review before the summer, or before 1 August or 1 September, for at least these 555 children and also to ask to re-assess the other issues. I can't imagine this happening in three months. But can I count on that support and can I assume that you think that the government should announce before Princess Day that there has been a conversation with all these children and parents, that experts have looked at it, that they can go back to living together where possible and where possible, that contact is intensified very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u50	I agree with everything Mr Omtzig says. I would like to make one comment. I'm going to go through the chairman and ask the Minister if what I want is technically possible. I have nothing to do with promising something here that we all want, but which is immediately said to be technically impossible. Then I've made everyone here happy with you, so to speak. Then it doesn't work out and then we can rightly call it shame again. But I fully agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr Peters is really not as powerless as he pretends to be here. I would like to ask him this. If he thinks this is so important, if he says that a lot of these things should have been dealt with earlier than today, why is the signature of the CDA under the coalition agreement, in which nothing concrete has been agreed on the legal protection of children? Why does he often block our proposals to improve, for example, this legal position? And why does his party also agree to a 500 million cut in youth care, when we simply know that the whole system is not in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u52	I am going to go a little further on that last question. To answer the first question is a bit difficult, because there are all kinds of motions and proposals that sound sympathetic, but which in practice are not going to help in my view, so that I vote against it. I find it difficult to defend myself in this Chamber against motions or proposals that no one knows what they meant and why I voted against them. When it comes to the coalition agreement, there are a lot of things not in the coalition agreement. Call it culture, I don't care, but we'll have to talk about it together, because we'll find the same thing. Then let's pick up that glove together. Let's do this roundabout together. Whether it's in the coalition agreement or not, let's turn it into a GroenLinks-CDA plan, with the SP in it, I don't care. Finally, I would like to comment on the 500 million cuts. Year after year, more and more money goes to youth care from 5.8 billion to 8.5 billion. Studies show that we have started to find more and more things bad and have started to offer more and more light help for small problems. We indicate that we have longer and longer routes and that more and more youth care companies are being taken over by hedge funds. One in twenty children once had to do with youth care, whereas in some municipalities it is now one in seven children. The big problem in youth care, I say to Mrs Westerveld, is not that there is too little money going, but that we spend so much time, money and energy on children with light problems, that we simply don't have enough time, money, energy and manpower for children with more complex problems. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u53	But that's what we're supposed to do, isn't it? We have had more debates with Mr Peters, so I know that his heart is in the right place, but in the end, of course, it will not do us any good if we all express beautiful intentions and ultimately nothing happens. That is my problem with everything in the government agreement on child care and legal protection. That's what the CDA's signature is underneath. I do not think that this is an important issue from the coalition agreement. Too often I see coalition parties saying: yes, we did not agree on this in the coalition agreement, and that is why we are voting against these proposals. I want to get rid of that. If we say that we agree, if we think this is an important subject, let us make this a priority in the years to come. Let us then ensure that we speak not only fine words, but also deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u54	I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld. Her voice in this house is worth as much as mine, so let's do it together. I'd love to take that glove, because this is important. And there are more important things that are not in the coalition agreement. I think we can do that together. That's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you for Mr Peters' contribution. He said, "I've been keeping this story for years." My question is, why does he keep the same story every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u56	That is the best possible question, I say to Mr Azarkan. Because it doesn't change fast enough in the direction I want, I'll say it back. That's it. And as long as we work here with an incredibly expensive and complicated roundabout called youth protection, where the legal protection of parents and children is not sufficiently protected, I will repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u57	You could say: that is then very persistent. Compliments for that. You could also say that it's a little the definition of folly to do the same thing each time and expect another outcome. I think it has to be different. I think a number of colleagues here have said that things have to be different. We have to do it differently, and so does Mr Peters. He wants things to be different. He keeps the same story every year. He points out all the dangers. He's pointing out how to do better. He's someone who also knows a lot about the social sector. He took responsibility for that as an alderman. He knows it up close. I find it really frustrating, and also very sad, when I look at all the people involved, that someone from his stature, someone who sits in a broad party that has been part of the government for 11 years, actually says: I also keep that story every year and nothing changes. What are we supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u58	About the first sentence. You can repeat things you've said before because they don't change so quickly but I don't know, but I think I'd rather have the compliment of perseverance. If Mr. Azarkan has been saying the same thing on other files for years and that doesn't change fast enough, I don't call it foolish, because it isn't. It's called "the keeper wins," I hope. Then the second. We've all set up a system here, the youth protection chain. I described him. You know it. You know the story, because you've been here for a while as long as I've been saying the same thing. Let's pick it up together and say: and now it's enough; we're going to force it to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you. Rounding off, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u60	Yes, but that is where we find each other, because we find that both Mr Peters and a number of spokesmen are simply not fast enough. We cannot trust that this will be properly carried out by the cabinet, so we need to monitor it. We may also have to come up with other proposals. I wonder, therefore, if this is observed, why this always goes in the same way: setting up a committee, waiting, a careful letter and further committees as the pressure increases. Why don't we say to each other that this is extremely important, the most important thing we have, that the Minister of Justice should put together a team of juvenile judges, a team of youth care people, with the parents involved, and that we should just go through those 1,625 files? Why don't we? Why not be proactive instead of saying, "We wait for these parents to come forward?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u61	I was just on another lead. I thought Mr. Azarkan was talking about tackling the youth protection chain, that expensive roundabout we had. I thought that was where we could hang out. Well, I think we are going to have an explicit debate on this very soon, which I have asked for. Let's see if we can come up with some good proposals. And I think we'll all agree on that. And whether it is coalition agreement or not, maybe we can make a chamber agreement on that piece. I'd be fine with that. And when it comes to those files, I can actually give the same answer as I gave Mr Omtzigt: I fully agree with you, but I don't want to ask something that I already know isn't going to happen because it can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In recent years I have looked many parents in the eye, often during years of struggle to put the child back in the family. I also think that I am looking at many parents who are sitting in the gallery now and are looking at this debate with interest. When a child is placed out of the house, it's always a tragedy. This is accompanied by incredibly much pain, grief, anger, torn families and, unfortunately, often lifelong trauma for the child and those involved. I have to admit that as a lawyer I sometimes browsed through a file, thought about it and said to myself: I don't think this is supposed to happen; this has to be different. There are long waiting lists, facts in reports that are not always correct, and a plan of action which appears to have not even started six months after removal, which means that extension is inevitable. Over the past few weeks, we have seen more and more letters from scientists, professionals, lawyers and even judges who all conclude that things are just not going well and that the helm has to be changed. You're just a kid once. How important is it that you can grow up in a stable environment in your forming years? How painful is it that this is not the case for thousands of Dutch children? The fact that children of parents of the supplemental affair were placed out of the house is horrible. The government has done an unprecedented injustice to the victims. We see that this state-trading goes on in all facets of life. Let me be clear here: every child who can return must return as soon as possible, because the longer a child does not live at home, the less chance is that relocation will ever be a realistic option. My sincere question to the cabinet is: what is taking so long? Also with regard to the ongoing research, my question is: what is taking so long? We all know that financial stress can work as a domino, that it can lead to acts and stress in a family that can also lead to a threat to the development of a child. Mr. Chairman. It is quite clear that wherever possible everything must be done to bring children of duped parents back home. The reason for this debate, the removals of children from the allowance affair, also sheds a clear light on the wider problem of removals in general. It's gonna go wrong in the front. There is too little or not enough work on relocation, there is no understanding of the number of relocations and the judge has only a marginal role in the assessment of a removal or under-supervisory position. The Christian Union considers it important that there is a significant improvement in the youth protection chain. We ourselves have a number of suggestions for this. Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions first. Support for the disabled parents is slow, while the time aspect is crucial. I understand very well that an assessment is not for the Chamber but for a child judge, but I cannot understand that there are cycles of six months or a year in which a case comes back to court because the authorization expires. This affair has been going on for over a year. How is it that these cases have not been re-evaluated by a child judge? Can you explain that to me and help me with this? Has the case-law been discussed, for example, about the waiting lists, which takes a long time to schedule a hearing? Can we give priority to these matters in consultation with the courts, precisely because of the social interest? I'd like to hear the Minister's answer. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree that a removal should be the last resort? And does the Minister believe that this is not the case at the moment? I think it is not always the last resort. I can see a few more steps before you put a kid out of the house. Provide crutches, support, but also, for example, see if the parents are the problem instead of the child. A number of municipalities already do that. Perhaps we can look at whether a parent can be temporarily removed from home in consultation or as an ultimatum. That will not work in all cases, succeed or be necessary, but make sure you do everything you can to raise a child in your own environment. I am considering a motion on this point to see if we can be much more creative there, where possible, in order to protect children's rights. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is busy making insights and keeping track of whether and when children can return home after a removal. The fact that this is not kept up shows that relocation does not have the highest priority in a home placement, while a child is best placed to grow up at home. I think it is of the utmost importance that all parties involved work as closely as possible on relocation after removal. This is a task of youth protectors, youth aid workers and municipal community teams. How is the Minister going to make sure that youth protectors get the room for that? It often takes a youth protector more time to work on a return placement than to enable a removal. I have seen in practice that there is a plan, but that a family guardian cannot be appointed in time, which shows that nothing has happened after six months. The result is an extension of another six months. The longer it takes, the greater the chance that the child will not be placed back. It is therefore crucial and essential that we do so. I therefore propose that a legal guarantee be laid down so that GIs must indicate within three months where they stand with regard to the possibility of relocation. There must be a family guardian and steps must have been taken. Finally, Mr President. Process representation is currently not mandatory, so parents sometimes face only a judge and a GI in all their grief. That can and must be done better. I am considering a motion to regulate mandatory process representation in order to ensure that parents are given the space, legal advice and protection needed in such a complex system. Mr President, my time is up, so I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Arib of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u65	I totally agree with you. I have one question. You said you know the parents. You were an attorney, and you've been up close with the way things are going in practice. I've spoken to some lawyers. A recurring problem is that parents have no access to the files. Can you say something about that? If a decision is taken, it is important that parents know on what basis such a decision or advice is made. Maybe you have other experiences with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u66	There's a few things going on. I also assisted parents in the child care allowance affair. In that it is indeed very complicated to get your file. Sometimes you have to wait years for that. I hate that. I'm not the spokesperson, but that plays out. In a family business, however, it is different. There's a GI, a certified institution, before you make a request to make it plausible why. So there's got to be a fact-finding report. I am the first to say that this should be done better, but there are indeed facts and circumstances under which a certified institution should make plausible why the removal is necessary. When these two worlds come together and you as a child parent have to make it likely that there is a direct connection, then there is a domino effect between what the Tax Administration has done and the removal, then I understand him. Because if you don't have that file, you can't prove that first domino. At the same time, a lawyer or a parent is, of course, free to do so. That would be my suggestion to make a repeated request; they do not have to wait for the Chamber. It can then be said that there is a change of circumstances, so I want a judge to look at the case again. We cannot influence the judge, but we can ask: can you give priority to these cases because of the social fuss that has arisen about this and because it simply takes too long? That's where you'll find me. I think it would be good if a judge could look back at the facts. If someone is a victim of the supplemental affair, then you may not have the entire file, but you may have a letter and an apology. That could be a reason to show that dominoes. In the end, it is up to the judge, not me or you, to judge. I also have to say that a lot of professionals, with the heart in the right place, have had a very difficult time over the past few months, because now everything that youth professionals do seems to be wrong. I want to watch over that, because there are also circumstances that you and I don't know. I speak to foster parents who say that this debate is also difficult for them, because children sitting next to them on the couch, watching us, hearing that there are a lot of bad things and wondering: is this about me too? While such a foster parent knows there's a lot more going on than maybe just the supplemental affair. I would therefore like to say to my fellow Members that we must deal with this dossier with urgency, but also with caution. And I hope we do justice to every child as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mrs. Arib, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u68	Of course, I totally agree with you that you should be careful. Of course, the intentions are generally good and youth workers are doing their best. But it is precisely in order to prevent such images from being created that it is very important to have access to them. It should be done in an independent way. Because for the same reason, there are good reasons why a child should be placed out of the house, but I can't judge that. Neither do you. That is why it is important for perhaps an independent body, or for the Youth Inspectorate, or for the lawyers empowered to do so. It is precisely in order to prevent this kind of image that it is important that it is accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. I don't really know how to start today. The stories connected to this subject do something to you, including me as a mother. The suffering of children who are taken out of their familiar environment is unimaginable. The suffering of parents to be separated from their child, too. This suffering comes in firmly, for example from the parent panel, from the factsheet that appeared last week or from other conversations about the removals. It is therefore important to use ourselves as a political force to do justice to the children concerned and to the parents concerned. D66 sees three tasks. One: to make every effort to bring children back or to restore contact wherever possible. Two: make sure that we learn lessons from the poignant stories we hear, so that we can prevent removals in the future where possible. Three: strengthening the legal status of the child and the parents. I continue our input along these three lines. To help parents and children, the support team has been set up. That is a good thing, but D66 wants to keep a close eye on whether this team can actually be effective. In many cases, for example, work, housing or municipal support is an important factor in making the re-evaluation really positive. Will this team be able to carry on? And if that power hasn't been settled and the team often runs up against walls, will it really get settled quickly? Can the parents in question like the team? I understand that there are parents who have lost faith and are therefore not waiting for the government. However, I think we should use all the means to help these parents. The CBS knows exactly which parents they're talking about. We have been informed that the CBS does not share this data with the support team to help these parents. Seems like the world's upside down. These parents have been pulled by the government because all kinds of information has been wrongly shared. Now that we have to help them, we can't do that anymore. I do not want to understand that, and I absolutely cannot explain it. Can the CBS not share data in this particular situation simply because there is a legitimate interest? And if the CBS knows which children are involved, can't they or the recovery team just ask the parents to share data so that these parents can be helped? If none of this is possible, can we expect a legislative proposal to deal with this in the very short term? Mr. Chairman. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees that we would prefer to have as few removals as possible. That is why we really need to do everything we can to ensure that children can grow up at home and safely wherever possible. I also see the drive to achieve this in conversations I have had with many people working in youth protection. They deserve our support for this. With all the questions and proposals we have in this debate, we must not lose sight of their hard work and the shortage of staff. A great frustration for many of these employees is that there are longer waiting lists and that proper help is not provided or is given too late. The Court of Justice also calls for this in a letter of fire. What actions can be taken to give priority to the use of youth assistance and youth care if it can prevent or accelerate the termination of an out-of-home placement? In addition, we hear from many parents and judges that truth finding is in many cases a bottleneck. This is a problem we've been seeing as a room for a long time. That is why, as a result of a Bergkamp motion, the fact-finding action plan has been launched. What is the situation with regard to the results of this action plan and should it not be followed up? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third task, strengthening the legal status of parents and children. In many of the poignant stories parents have been evicted from parental authority. That makes a solution like reunification very difficult. It also shows that the decision on the perspective of a child or the termination of parental authority is very far-reaching. It is precisely then that we must do justice to the children and parents concerned. A project group is thinking about this and we will discuss this later, but I would like to make some concrete proposals. Shouldn't a judicial test in a perspective decision become the standard? Can it be investigated whether a lawyer can be assigned to the child by default in a removal? Could we give the judge the opportunity not only to say yes or no about a youth protection measure, but also to help determine if there is another form to be offered? Mr. Chairman. It's terrible what happened. In particular, I hope that today parents and children can be given the right to reunite or restore contact as quickly as possible, where this is not the case. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u72	I heard Mrs Van Beuker say that she thinks that the cabinet should do everything it can to find a solution for the affected parents, families and children who are placed out of the house. Does Mrs Van Beuker think that the cabinet is doing so, knowing that the removals may continue, knowing that the supplement scandal for many affected families is still unsolved and knowing that the Prime Minister has recently said that this will take years? Does Mrs Van Beuker actually think that the cabinet is doing everything it can?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u73	I understand where Mrs Marijnissen's question comes from, because I too am very shocked by the figures we have received. It's also horrible... I can really come up with an answer to your question. It is also terrible and I have also indicated in our input that we think it is important that everything is put into practice. A number of points have now been set in motion. I'm not saying it exactly right. I mean to say there's a support team now. For example, there is a team at the municipality that will think about the five habitats. So there's some business going on. Now I'd like us to go through with it. I think we all agree here that a removal is always far-reaching. Every day that an expatriation stays is actually a day too long. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we simply need to work together today in this debate to provide the cabinet with more tools to really take those steps in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u75	We do not want to offer the cabinet any tools to take steps in the coming period. I asked Mrs Van Beucker very simply if she thinks that the cabinet is doing everything it can, because she herself argues that she thinks everything should be done. Then there comes a story about regional teams, handles and I know it all. Let me make it a little more specific: does Mrs Van Beuker agree, for example, that there should be a review as soon as possible and that there should be a plan where the creed, so the starting point, is: the child goes home, unless? One: I would like to know if she agrees. Two: does she also think that the support team does not work in this way and that it would be much better to organise people who can actually decide things and who can also solve things with the same starting point: the child goes home and we are going to see what circumstances are needed for that? Does she specifically agree that this should be done? I have therefore put two specific questions. Maybe we'll get a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u76	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that this should be the starting point. I think we've all talked about the fact that there should be as few removals as possible. But there are more removals. That is why there will be a debate shortly. I do believe that these are really very poignant situations in which the government has really taken a step forward. I can also very well imagine that you agree with me that we should therefore make an extra effort on this issue. You asked if we could find... Let me rephrase. I have indicated in my input that I think it is important that there be perseverance for the team. I've also asked the Cabinet to come forward with a response to that. I think we agree, because that is what you are asking. You also ask if the support team that has been set up, which started in early April and for which there have been pilots in Rotterdam and Almere, has enough capacity to really get through. That was also my question to the cabinet in my speech. I'm curious about the reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u77	I don't think we're curious about questions to the cabinet, but what D66 thinks. D66's election slogan was, release everyone, but nobody falls. That "no one dropped" didn't really work. The signature of D66 is under a government agreement in which there are no concrete plans at all to improve legal protection and to cut back on youth care. I hear questions mostly from the cabinet, but I don't hear what D66 really wants. I would like to ask Mrs Huijbregts what she thinks about that now. Will she now support proposals to strengthen the legal position? Is she really going to try to get rid of this austerity, so that the chain is improved before cuts are made? Does she agree that there are far too few ambitious plans in the coalition agreement and is she prepared to go further?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u78	These are a number of questions from Mrs Westerveld at the same time. The reason why I do not come out of my words here is because it really affects me that we have to have this debate together, because it really takes a very long time. I'd like to add that. It's really hard for me. You mentioned a number of points and you asked my colleague Mr Peters the same question. You say: because something is not in the coalition agreement, it will not be arrested; will you support us in that? I don't agree with that at all. Because if it were, it would only be dealt with by the Chamber what is in a coalition agreement. There are also initiatives. Mr Omtzigt announced an initiative this morning. I'm very curious about that. So, as far as I am concerned, there are at least a number of possibilities for taking steps together with the Chamber. At the same time, you ask me: do you agree that we should do something about legal protection? I have already put a number of questions about this in my speech. We would like a lawyer to be involved with parents and children. We immediately asked questions about that. So I can answer some of the questions that Mrs Westerveld is asking. I think we can only do this together with the Chamber. Then it may not be entirely fair to say that it was not in the coalition agreement, so nothing is going to happen. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is convinced that families should be helped in these situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mrs Van Beuker is talking about repacking and providing the cabinet with handles. But I really do think that this is what I believe the contributions of all my fellow Members here show that the cabinet, and the previous cabinet too, and the cabinet before that, have, over the past few years, been given perhaps hundreds of handles to improve something. And nothing's been done with that. So I think we should put it more firmly today and we should start demanding something. I am therefore wondering: if you would like to go ahead, can you support the request to the cabinet of my group, the PVV, that all current removals should be re-evaluated before 1 July and that every child should have a plan aimed at restoring contact or reuniting? Can you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u80	I would like to support very much today. That is also what I meant when I said: let us offer the cabinet today the opportunity to move forward. At the same time, I would like to mention here, and I also understand that this is not a nice message at all: we must create realistic expectations. If you are going to mention a date, if according to the CBS figures 550 people have been removed from the house who should all be assessed before that date and if a plan is to be prepared for that, then I wonder if we would raise realistic expectations if I were to make a commitment to that now. I would like to stress once again that my group would like to be open to thinking with other groups about what is needed. But let's be careful what we promise here today in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mrs Maeijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u82	That is a bit different from the certainty of that 'passing through'. My group intends to put something concrete in a motion here in the near future. And indeed, with a date. That date is tight. But we all know the stories of people who have lost everything in a month. Surely we can't explain to them that we couldn't get it done in six weeks that cases are being re-evaluated? Are we gonna wait another seven months for us to do something? I think that is the reality with which we are sitting here. I understand the caution, but I think this is also the time to move forward and speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u83	I think it is important to stress once again here that, as far as I am concerned, it takes a really long time and that speed is needed. Every day that the contact between a parent and a child has not been restored or that reunification has not yet been possible because there has been no re-evaluation of the situation, I think it is a day too long. I think we really do agree on that. Over the past period, the Chamber has asked a few times for swift action and for quick action. Then we had to conclude and conclude that it did not succeed. I want to prevent that. I would really like the families and children to be helped, but I do think it should be realistic. So I just want to know from the cabinet what's possible. I am also very interested in the proposal you are about to put forward, but ask that we ensure that we offer capacity. There are also just waiting lists within the care. We have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u84	It is of course very good to hear that D66 also thinks that every day that a child cannot grow up at home, in the familiar situation, is a day too much. It is also very realistic to say that we should not make unrealistic promises here. But I'm still curious. Ma'am started her contribution by moving as a mother into the situation. I recognize that too, of course. But if you ask the cabinet to come up with a plan and a timetable, what is acceptable to D66? Isn't it fair to the parents to say "dear parents, this is going to take so long" instead of leaving it to the cabinet? We know, particularly in view of the other branch of this scandal, that this cabinet may take years. What is an acceptable period for D66 to achieve this, at least for the children whose contact with the parents can be restored?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u85	I don't think it's acceptable for years. Let's really agree on that. For example, I think it is important that... There's a support team. There are people available. I also understand, as I indicated in my contribution, that it may be difficult for parents to join that support team. That's why I'm asking if we should probably do it the other way around. I would find it extremely important for all parents to have a conversation with the support team and thus have a realistic expectation about what is possible for them. That support team is a director between the various authorities, can see what is needed at the municipality and can therefore also continue and continue. I think it is more honest that in the contact between parents, children and the support team a real promise is made about what is possible. I think that's the fairest thing to do. Perhaps it would be useful to pass the question on to the cabinet whether they see it as well and whether they might be able to indicate a timetable, but I find it difficult to assess it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u86	Last question, Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u87	Let's talk about those support teams. That is certainly a good initiative, but the point is that those support teams help parents to get their affairs in order and give a listening ear. But that's all they can do. I have argued in my contribution for a perseverance force, so that they can also play a role in restoring contact between parent and child, or reintegration when the environment is safe. What does D66 think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u88	I am glad that Mrs Arib will come back to that, because I heard her say that at the time. I also knew that I would report that later in my own contribution. I think we're definitely gonna find each other in that. I asked the cabinet for an order and asked for a moment first to tell us what is happening to the support team and what they need from us. And that can also be done in the very short term; we certainly need to evaluate this with each other. If it turns out that this power of perseverance is not properly regulated, then I think that we should settle it with each other as soon as possible. In my view, therefore, I can reassure the Labour Party that we feel exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Verkuijlen of the VVD. It's his maiden speech. As usual, no questions or comments will be asked. I have agreed with Mr Verhuijlen that, given the nature of the debate, we will not suspend it for congratulations. Mrs. Marijnissen of the SP, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u90	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President. Since the box on our left was flooded with VVDs, I had such a suspicion that we are dealing with a maiden speech today. Now I have been properly raised, so I will certainly congratulate Mr Verkuijlen on his maiden speech, but I would like to say that I do not think it is appropriate that we, as other groups in this Chamber, should be deprived of the opportunity in this debate at this time. Indeed, it is good practice that you do not interrupt at a maiden speech to ask questions to the VVD, which is the largest party here in the Chamber, is responsible for the cabinet that has fallen over the surcharge scandal and delivers the Prime Minister who says it will take years before it is resolved. I see that the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Hermans, is also present in the Chamber. In fact, I think it would be very good if she were to have this debate, given the importance of this debate, but also because you would give us the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you. You've made your point. The group is, of course, about its own delegation. Mr Verkuijlen did say that he was open to interruptions in the second term. That's different, but it's the choice of the VVD itself. I suggest that we listen to Mr Verkuijlen. Would you like to add something else, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u92	Yes, Mr President, because the VVD is not only the largest party, but the VVD has, of course, delivered the Ministers for Legal Protection in recent years. There is a dilemma there, because we are talking about legal protection all day long and I would ask Mr Verkuijlen to go into what we can expect from the VVD in his contribution. Perhaps we should have a little bit of that inconvenience, which at least my group also has, because I know only that it is a maiden speech, otherwise I could have removed the questions myself later, because I think this debate is simply too important to be able to ask any questions at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you. A suggestion to Mr Verkuijlen. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr President, I have a question for Mr Verhuijlen: is he prepared to answer questions after he has been fully spoken and with the extra speaking time associated with a maiden speech? And would the VVD, if not, be prepared to find a second spokesperson at a debate, because in principle there is nothing against a second spokesperson who is willing to answer questions in the first term, given the importance of this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you. Perhaps you'd like to respond to that yourself, Mr. Verkielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'd still like to stick to tradition, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u97	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u98	No, no, no. We're not going to have a big discussion about that. I'm not gonna do that. You've responded. You also made your point. Mr Verhuijlen has received a question and replied. It's no different in this case. I now give the floor to Mr Verkuijlen for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have asked myself whether a maiden speech fits in with a debate like this, but precisely because this debate is about trust in government and politics, I choose to do so. Because until the day I joined the House of Representatives, I was a policeman for 35 years. The first nineteen years in the last century in my hometown of Amsterdam gave me different experiences. For example, I stood between the ruins and the human suffering caused by the plane crash in the Bijlmer in 1992, I held on to three assassins, I supported the honouring of the Dutch national team as European champion and I summoned two Jordanese ladies with danger for their own lives that the music should really be softer during the famous cycling round of the Elandsgracht. But often my work brought me behind the front door of people's homes, even in families where parents could no longer take care of their children for various reasons. That gave me a sense of powerlessness as a professional and later as a father. 'Cause even if I was a policeman on time, I feel like I was late. The problems in these families had often arisen much earlier. The knowledge that it was no longer going on was softened by the perspective to reunite children and their parents whenever possible. But each time, apart from the reason for the need to separate children and parents, it remained a heartbreaking experience. That feeling that I was late is why I went into politics to get to the front of problems and offer solutions to them. That's what I tried to do as a cop, and I see as a member of parliament as my expensive duty. In that sense, I consider myself a cop of the public cause. Mr. Chairman. 35 years of police work means 35 years of tracking, 35 years of maintaining and 35 years of helping those who need it. And precisely the latter, helping those who need it, the doomed parents and children sitting here in the gallery, is what we need to do here today in this debate. The parents and children we are talking about here today have been wronged. They're the victims of the supplemental affair. They have been dealt with by the government, among other things, in the financial problems. In the meantime, we also know that other painful truth, that many of these affected families have also been placed out of their homes. Mr. Chairman. It is understandable that these parents have little faith in the government. It is also distressing that the distrust is so great that parents are very reluctant to report and that the government itself does not seem to have sufficient insight into this group of doomed families. As far as the VVD is concerned, the injustice done to these parents must be corrected as quickly as possible. The support team that has been assisting parents and children with their call for help since 4 April is a good first step. Restoring communication from parents with their children and legal support are part of this, but working on solutions for these parents and children is not enough for my group. More is needed to help the duped parents and children now. Unfortunately, yesterday's CBS letter shows that the nature and extent of the problem is still insufficient. If the group of affected parents and children is not yet fully in sight, how can we help those who need it? Step one must also be to get everyone on the screen as soon as possible. I understand that these are different implementation organisations and multiple systems. Does the Minister see any possibility of linking up these systems so that we can really quickly get everyone in view? If not, why not? What other possibilities does the Minister see? Mr. Chairman. Help should aim to put children back in safe family situations, because children should grow up with their parents. Where possible, children should be able to be placed back as soon as possible. In the meantime, the acceptable time limit within which the assessment is to take place has been waived and the underlying cause is known in these cases. On the basis of the initial findings of the support team, can more speed be achieved by re-assessing cases? And is that support team already sufficiently known, so that parents will check in there as well? That is, of course, what we are dependent on right now, as long as it is not already done through municipalities. Does the support team have sufficient opportunities to stimulate that re-evaluation or is there a need for more mandate? How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. I am not under the illusion that we are solving this problem today, but I think that together we have the responsibility to take the path towards that solution. The identification of affected families, the provision of assistance and the re-evaluation of removals should be given priority. My group would like to be informed in the monthly report by the Minister for Legal Protection about the progress of this process. Can I get a commitment from the Minister on this? Mr President, I will conclude. Finally, I would like to express my sincere appreciation for all those professionals in youth aid and youth protection. Sometimes, when we find that everything went wrong, it may seem that it is directed against them. I would like to state explicitly that the opposite is true. These professionals work every day to make the lives of parents and children better. This deserves, here and now, very much appreciation. We owe it to them to deal with the problems that go wrong throughout the system. A great deal has already been exchanged on this subject today, but we will have a separate debate on this very soon. That's the place to improve the system. Today we must try to restore the situation of the affected parents and children. Finally, Mrs Westerveld, because that was your call, with any constructive solution in this direction, you will find me by your side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Verkillen for your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mr President, may I have an interruption? In fact, non-interrupting is not included in the Rules of Procedure, which is a customary right. It is up to the President to allow or not to allow an interruption. So my question to you is whether you allow me to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u102	No. I'll do that in second term. It is an unwritten rule that I maintain with everyone, so also in this case. Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr President, on a point of order. I have had the decency to listen to Mr Verkielen and to congratulate him on his maiden speech. I note that the subject of the VVD is full but that the public gallery, where the parents came here today because they were looking for a solution and wanted to hear from us, is now empty. I do wonder whether Mr Verkuijlen really thinks that he has contributed to the restoration of confidence in this action today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Verkuilen, for your maiden speech. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really embarrassed right now, really, for what's going on here. I also want to apologize to the parents involved in the whole affair. We're not very good today. Mr. Chairman. Citizens in the Netherlands, and especially the parents and children who have been greatly wronged and some of whom are in our gallery today. A gruesome scandal, great injustice. In fact, I cannot find the words that cover the load of what has happened and continues to this day. The coalition agreement is titled: "Seeing each other, looking forward to the future." Those are beautiful, but mostly hollow words. The parents and kids we're talking about today haven't been looked at. Many people have been deliberately and knowingly deprived of their future by the same cabinet. A cabinet that resigned because of the surcharge scandal and cold a year later cozy together again on the border with the king. Old wine in new bags. Before I go on about the cabinet, I first reflect on ourselves. We too must put our hands into our own bosom. Because if something has happened somewhere, it is immediately being called upon to intervene with new and stricter policies. Look at the Bulgarian fraud: a small group took advantage of the surcharges and the policy was generally tightened. The result was, in short, the surcharge scandal, in which tens of thousands of people were victims. Major damage was done to tens of thousands of people, perhaps more, because we made policies for a relatively small group. We also react too much here to the delusion of the day by blowing directly high off the tower without first taking a good distance, thinking carefully and looking at what exactly is going on. Is new and stricter policies effective? What are the consequences of this policy? Mr. Chairman. Incidental politics will then be lurking. This brings with it too rigid measures. These measures may be effective, but we do not know very well whether these measures also affect citizens or businesses who do nothing wrong. I therefore call on the Chamber today to be more aware of this in the future. It has to be completely different with the ministries and the executive bodies, but also with us in the Chamber. Yeah, I'm counting myself on that, too. BBB is the party to the practice. I therefore call for a practical test to be carried out before any policy is introduced. In this test of practice, we are looking at whether the new policy will go beyond the original objective. Mr. Chairman. What I find unheard of is that today this government still doesn't have a good picture of how many children have actually been placed out of the house because of the supplemental affair and where those children have stayed at all. I find it unheard of that this is so badly recorded and that this is not kept centrally. The same government sometimes blamed citizens for missing a signature on paper or for making another administrative mistake. Sometimes parents couldn't help themselves. For example, they were just sitting at the wrong host parent's office. You expect your own administration to be more than in order, but it turns out to be a mess. Even years after the surcharge scandal came to light, it is not yet clear how many victims are involved. I can't reach it. Mr. Chairman. No 1,115 children have been forced out of their homes, but they are there according to the latest state of affairs 1,675. That's an increase of over 50%. As Mr Omtzigt said, there are probably many more. Such sloppy accounting of the consequences of the government's rigid policy that its citizens were dealing hard with slums, how acidic, how resentful, how unfair and how unjust is that? As I said, the figures are not definitive. What extra effort does the Minister make to get the group of out-of-home placements in the picture? For exactly what reason have they been placed out of the house? Mr. Chairman. I welcome the fact that the CBS is now conducting an investigation into the extent to which the supplement scandal has continued to work towards the protection of young people and thus has caused removals. It is a very important research that should have been done long ago as far as I am concerned. When does the Minister expect the investigation to be shared with the Chamber? I wonder how the Minister will ensure that as many children as possible can return to their parents as soon as possible. Parents were placed on a so-called fraud alert list by the Tax Administration. Sometimes this happened for petty reasons. This list was also shared with other governments and even with private parties. Can the Minister indicate whether this list was also shared with the youth services? There are people who believe that an entry on this list has caused the association with an out-of-home child to be frustrated. Are any of these cases known to the Minister? Let's get this clear and clear as soon as possible. What is the Minister going to do to ensure the legal protection of those who face these problems in the future? And how is the Minister going to prevent a child from ever being removed from home on the basis of inadequate reporting? Finally, but certainly not unimportant: all the studies also show that foster care plays an important and stable role for children placed out of the home, especially if the relationship with parents remains good. Families offering foster care are indispensable for children who, for whatever reason, are unable to live at home. In this discussion, caregivers have sometimes been dismissed as profiteers of the system. I'd like to make that right. Foster parents, you do important work. I hope with all my heart that you will continue to work for this with your heart and soul, in the interests of the children and their parents who really need it. The National Ombudsman said it yesterday when he presented his annual report: the citizen cannot wait. It is a truth like a cow, and this is particularly true of the parents and children we are talking about today. The parents can't wait and the children can't wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u106	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. Who's stopping this train? Not 1,115, but 1,675 children of extracurricular parents have been placed out of the house. That is 1.5 times as many cases of what are now called "state kidnappings" as thought. And zero reunions so far, on top of all the abuses that continue to fall out of the closets. It shows how the surcharge scandal still permeates as a progressive disease after eighteen years. How is that even possible? I thought the Prime Minister had resigned to heal. It's like we keep getting a paracetam ball, a tissue against the bleeding, while the supplement scandal and its toxic effects are still not over. In fact, there is now a new scandal. The recovery scandal is ongoing. That's indigestible. Does the Prime Minister agree? Legal protection that does not protect does not fit in the process of healing. The former Secretary of State for Finance Van Huffelen, who was talking about the supplementing affair, said that healing was central. Healing is also mentioned in the book (equally) worthy recovery, written by parents and offered to the Cabinet and the Chamber. One of the most important building blocks in the process of healing, according to this book, is that the direction lies with the parents. But if you've lost your kids, it's a very bad basis for directing. Then you have no direction. In Trouw there was a story of a parent who was handcuffed and blindfolded when her children were taken away from her. Her children were 3 months, 2 years and 5 years old when they were taken away from her. There's never been any research. She wasn't even allowed to see the file. Children who spend their lives in foster homes and institutions. That's not directing, that's a nightmare. The current system, even if extended to support teams, is not functioning well enough. I say, "not good enough." It is not working, but I would like the Minister to respond to that "not good enough." Does the Minister agree? Mr. Chairman. One root cause of the system's failure is that the system that is supposed to recover is also the unsub. As long as it is not recognised, recognized, felt and pronounced, that problem will not be solved. Does the Prime Minister actually recognise this unsub's problem? There must therefore also be another, separate and independent system with mandated, neutral, strategic and confidence-building players, which monitors equivalence in all partnerships. Mr. Chairman. Who's stopping this train? The Prime Minister has embraced a plan from one of the parents. I think she's sitting here in the bleachers; I don't know if she's back yet. This plan means that independent places in the province can be found where parents and children can report for help, and where a team of parents as recovery experts with expert lawyers and specialised psychologists with mandate can form the return or restore contact between parents and their children on the basis of equivalence. The places must be safe for parents and children, and therefore not related to bodies involved in the removal, the perpetrators. However, this plan is likely to end up in the drawer. That's right, I'm asking the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Again, who stops the train? I'll tell you. The description of this plan that has been put in a drawer or put in a drawer seems to have been put in a drawer. The Prime Minister is going to respond to it. The municipality of Almere has become the ideal place, but there are more places, where the ambition of a human government is given concrete meaning. The recovery operation takes place there on the basis of the basic ingredients of successful recovery: recognition, offendership of the government, direction for parents and ex-partners, the forgotten group, and equivalence and independence, exactly as stated in the book (equally) worthy recovery. A quote from the book (equally) worthy restoration reads: "We are survivors who know what it's like to 'plan, persevere and deal with setbacks'. People in government are also citizens." So the affected write: "People in the government are also citizens." There's a great deal of compassion there. "So our call to everyone who is working on solutions before us: you can still learn a lot from us. Yes, we need help, but see and treat us as equals, not only as a citizen with limited capacity." Mr. Chairman. The ingredients that form the equivalent recovery and the people who work on it, the process that is going on in Almere, should also form the basis for ending the nightmare of the removals. I will table a motion on this later. This is in addition to all the other recommendations, such as those contained in Mr Omtzig's own-initiative paper. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish with the verdict I heard on that other scandal, Groningen. It went through my marrow and bone and is also so applicable, namely: "You are as happy as your unhappy child." Let him get through to you. Mr. Chairman. So there's a way out. Almere shows the Prime Minister the way as a beautiful city on the hill. Get him, Prime Minister! That's how the train stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u109	Madam President. People get a lot on their plate sometimes. That's unbelievable. Lose your job, end up in debt, end up in the street, lose your child through a home placement: all these problems are so intense in themselves, but imagine getting them all together. This is true for many parents who have fallen victim to the supplement drama, with the low point of separation between parents and children. This is poignant, but it is particularly touching that the government was not the solution, the shield for the weak, but the problem, and suffering added. This also gives extra responsibility in this debate. I think that is also what we are all feeling and aware of in this debate. That is why I wholeheartedly support all those who have said that we feel obliged to do everything we can, to reverse the wrong decisions, to restore contacts between parents and children as quickly as possible, and, where possible, to allow them to be placed back. And also my question to the cabinet is: what acceleration is there possible in this re-evaluation of the plans that are now under way? Mr. Chairman. There are more lessons to learn. We've been thinking about it as a room. There have been hearings, also in response to letters from the cabinet on how to proceed with youth protection and decisions to be taken in that context. At that hearing, I found what one of the experts, Mr Van Montfoort, said: there is every reason to be more modest about the role of the government, even when it comes to child protection. We have to learn to be modest again, he said, because makingability, overstretched creativity thinking, also with the best intentions, unfortunately also means the ability to destroy something. It is a pity, for example, that I repeat the other colleagues, as people, foster care parents who are doing a lot of good work, would be inadvertently exposed to this. I also repeat everyone who says that many children are dependent on their help and support, and that commitment deserves to be appreciated. Mr. Chairman. As a collective name, we often talk about "extra payments and removals," but the problem doesn't just have to be limited to the allowances. For example, we also received signals that removals may be the result of unlawful placement on the Tax Office's fraud list. Can the Minister confirm that support is also generously available in those cases? Madam President. We have heard a lot of experts say: debts are not in themselves a reason for removal. There must always be a serious threat to the development of the child. The SGP believes that the reverse should also apply: the extension of removal should never be the result of poverty or debt problems, but must really have to do with the threat to the child, so removal only if there is no other way to do so. If there are financial concerns, it is also up to the government to provide financial assistance. I would also like a comment on that point. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased to note that there are also good initiatives in society to assist parents in difficult situations. I mention here in particular the Own Force Central. Mrs Maeijer spoke of this first. Families and social networks can make a plan with the help of these organisations so that children can stay home or return home. Neighbors, friends, networks and grandpas and grandmothers are used, for example. This can also be a good solution in a number of situations that we are discussing today. Can the Minister for Legal Protection undertake that the support team will also contact the Eigen Force Centrale to explore the possibilities, both in individual cases and for the wider issues? Mr. Chairman. It is good that children's judges will also investigate their own actions. However, that is no reason for politics to wait and see. In any case, it is important to ensure that the external committee, which is due to produce a report this year, makes sufficiently clear what role and support children's judges should have. We would like to draw attention to the fact that Dutch children's judges, compared to neighbouring countries, seem to have little time for far-reaching decisions. A comparison would be good. Moreover, the recent factsheet on removals confirms once again the concern that the children's court has been too sidelined by the legislative amendment of two decades ago. Does the Minister give these two subjects to the advisory committee to be set up? Finally, the Minister states that in the case of supplements, the regular procedures apply and that parents themselves must go to court. That means a reasonable threshold. Given the responsibility of the government, can we expect an extra step here? Shouldn't a standard judicial test be requested by the institutions if they fail to comply with parents' requests? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Simons, BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, of course, would like to begin today with a very warm welcome to everyone in the public gallery, everyone who is watching at home and everyone who is involved. I also admire that endless commitment. I hope that today, at least at times during this debate, you will feel supported and strengthened by a number of Members of Parliament and no longer feel alone in the struggle for recognition, justice and equal restoration. With this in mind, I call on the directors, with the presence of experience experts in space, to re-establish the weight of the supplement scandal on them, the weight of the suffering that the cabinet has caused these people under the leadership of Prime Minister Rutte. I ask them to show the courage to be vulnerable, to answer questions honestly and to take responsibility. Mr. Chairman. After all, we are talking today about over 1,600 children who have been placed out of their homes, by means of years of talk to citizens who, for no legitimate reason, did not want to trust the government. That government it has imposed on citizens the worst punishment that can happen in our neoliberal capitalist system, namely poverty. This punishment has then resulted in parents still being dismissed as incompetent, unreliable and incompetent to direct their own lives. It is because of the government that they are told: you are not financially active and not emotionally and mentally capable enough to raise your own children. That's over humanity. For over a year now, we have known that this poverty, caused by the government, has caused people to lose control of their own lives. In fact, they've been taken from them. It wasn't passive. They've been taken from them. In the meantime, it is over seven months since we saw the first alarming figures of the number of children placed out of the house. Those numbers continue to rise, because we don't have the total picture yet; we saw that already this week. More children will be added to the list, because we still lack insight into the so-called voluntary removals and removals prior to 2015. And yet no child has come home yet. There are still hundreds of parents who are not allowed to see their children or whose parent-child relationship has not yet been restored. People are in the dark about where their children are. My question to the rulers is: how the hell is this possible? How do you explain this to those parents and children? Where are the independent studies and the re-evaluations? And what kind of help can parents and children really count on, without having to go through rowing and windows themselves in order for justice to prevail? Through the chairman, I ask you what responsibility you take not only to bring the children back home, but also to restore the relationships between parents and children, who have been so skillfully destroyed by this state of affairs. How do you feel about it, given the fact that parents are being forced to sue the state because you're completely failing to do their justice? Do you think that's fair? I hope that the cabinet, as the culprit of these problems, is fully committed to bringing these children back home. Are the rulers well aware that it is their chosen policy that has ensured that the children have not only been taken away, but have then also been put into youth care, a system that has been in crisis for years? This sector has raised the most inhumane situations to the delusion of the day. Their own failure has caused an accumulation of pain, destruction and trauma, not only in the past but also now, every day. As in the whole recovery operation, we also see in the relocations that the cabinet is not looking forward to placing the victims at the centre. Instead, we are confronted with false solutions, patches of broken bones, which do not work because the cabinet is not guided by the expertise, experience and needs of the injured, but looks at what is possible or not possible within the existing systems. It's the existing systems that brought us here today. It cannot be that these same systems are going to provide solutions. This system has failed the parents for years and has completely crushed the victims. It's rotten deep down. Within that system no justice can be done to the suffering of the victims. They deserve unbridled commitment. If I have to hear the phrase "everything at all" one more time, I'm physically unwell. No one knows what that means. It sounds good, but what does "everything on everything" mean in concrete terms? I'd like to hear from these four rulers what "everything at all" looks like. The doomed are entitled to "anything at all" in order to be able to live another decent life, together with their children. How many times do we have to ask this cabinet to follow the lead of the experience experts, as the municipality of Almere does so well? Mr Van Raan mentioned that. This municipality shows the courage to step outside the beaten track in order to look for real solutions, in cooperation and consultation with and under the direction of those affected. How often do we have to remind the Cabinet that any solution within the framework of the current system will fail? There's no other way. It is the whole system that is responsible: the government, the municipalities, housing corporations, the whole system. How many times do we have to ask the cabinet not to rest in the status quo and not to say 'that's how we do it, that's how it always goes, that's what the system looks like and these are the rules', but to dare move far beyond that? Mr. Chairman. Following on from my colleague Van Raan, I also ask these rulers: who stops this train? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What has perhaps surprised me most since I was a Member of Parliament is the large number of e-mails that I have received from parents who are completely distraught and are completely stuck in youth care. At the entrance of the House of Representatives, especially the old House of Representatives, I have often been gagged by desperate parents who have lost everything. They have lost their homes and are also appalled by parental power, which means that they can no longer reach their most precious property, their child, and in fact lose their families. It's really outrageous. This problem really came to us. I think it is very good that we are having a debate on this today, but I would like to say that we are not in a position to do so. This problem is a symptom of a much greater problem that we, as a Forum for Democracy, have often raised, namely that health care is increasingly being used by the State as a kind of totalitarian principle in order to interfere with all aspects of our lives. Because we can't take any more risks! We have seen that for the last few years with corona of course and now we see that again. We can see again that the State intervenes in families at micro level, not because there is serious abuse or because there are serious problems, but because of educational or educational reasons. Things wouldn't be quite right, the state would know better and parents would be thrown out of parental power. Health care is therefore once again used as a principle to put pressure on our individual freedoms and also on the family. That's very serious. The government's only making it worse. It may be well-meant, although we sometimes ask ourselves that, but it's only getting worse. We've got all these abuses straightened out; I'll name a few. Thousands of children are placed out of home every year in this country. In 2021, there were nearly 40,000 children who were torn away from their parents, sometimes on a voluntary basis, but also regularly as a matter of urgency and under police supervision, which could involve violence. It is no exception that in the middle of the night children are taken away in an arresting van, while cops control the desperate parents. This is happening in this country, under the guise of: we must do so, that is good for the children. The aim of the new Youth Act in 2015 was to reduce the number of removals, but since then the number has increased by 14%, to 9 out of 1,000 children in 2021. Unbelievable. Apparently many parents didn't pass enough when youth care and all those institutions subjected them to a patronizing parental examination. For three years, journalist Van Beek searched for one child that could say: well, youth care, it helped me. She didn't find that kid. However, she found dozens of severely damaged young people and a number of grieving parents of children who have robbed themselves of life behind the closed doors of an institution. Yeah, robbed of life. After three years of research, Van Beek concludes that the Dutch youth care system is an almost impregnable stronghold. This image is confirmed by former attorney Weststrate in her report entitled "State Abductions." She writes that although youth care is intended for protection, care and assistance, it has caused a great deal of human suffering for decades and little comes from protection, care and help. That is why she speaks of a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented magnitude, because by far the majority of children in youth care are victims of illegal removals. And for those who don't want to read, there is now, on the EO, a six-part series called Jojanneke and the youth care tapes, in which young people show what retirement did with their lives. That's not much good, I can tell you. The legal history, as well as European case law, shows that removal may only be used as a last resort, i.e. as an ultimatum remedium. If more than 37,000 children are currently placed out of the house, it is difficult to maintain that removals are used as intended, namely as a last resort. This is our main point. This is completely out of control. Families have been destroyed, a wedge is actively driven between parents and children. Institutions have far too much power. This is at the heart of the problem. Institutions have far too much power. It is up to us here, the House of Representatives, to put an end to this and intervene hard. We really need to do something today. It's not like we're gonna do a little research and set up a hotline. No, we have to take motions here to prevent this; I said that in an interruption. Because it is the youth care chain and also the cabinet that is ultimately responsible itself failed. The state must be driven back into its den. We gotta chain these guys up here. That's actually what needs to be done. We must protect parents and families from the institutions of youth care, by cutting back on those institutions and restricting their power. That's what needs to be done. It's the only way we can protect the family from the state. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you. I don't think the expression "guests on the chain" is appropriate. In the context of the dignity of this debate, I would also appeal to you to really pay attention to that. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr President. The supplement affair has caused a great deal of suffering in many Dutch households and has led to long-lasting consequences. A great deal has already been said by my fellow Members today. That is something my group would like to emphasise. This should never have happened, and this injustice must be corrected as quickly and as precisely as possible. We are talking today about a subject that affects me as a parent and goes through my marrow and bone. Children are taken out of your home and it is uncertain and unclear when they and if they will ever return. That's a horrible thought. When this situation has been in the hands of the government and when the government wrongly accused parents of fraud as a result of the government's actions and kept chasing them, even when the innocence was in fact long and wide clear, you really speak of a black page, which unfortunately has not yet been turned. Far from it: we learned yesterday from the CBS figures that in the period 2015-2021 a total of 1,675 children of duped parents were removed from their homes by the judge. That's 560 more than was known in October. Also, the number of ongoing removals is significantly higher by 555 than the first number of 420, which we were told last year. That is well known, but my group is particularly shocked by what is not yet known. Because whether and how many children are back home is still unclear. "At the moment, unfortunately, there are no figures on how often children are returned to their parents after a removal," you wrote, Minister Weerwind, in your letter yesterday. How is it that something so essential is not available, as you admit? You are talking to the Dutch Youth Services and the CBS about the possibilities of monitoring the number of placements in the future, but when are we going to hear about the things we know now? I'd really like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that he does not have reliable and complete data on voluntary retirement or urge. Again, you wonder what it says that data about something so fundamental, especially in the event of urge, are not available or only available in limited quantities. I would like a reflection from the Minister on this. A question to which we need to get a thorough answer as soon as possible is the question of to what extent the supplement affair contributed to the number of removals. The examination of the inspection should answer the question as to whether due to the supplementing affair the disabled families were more likely to have had to deal with removals than families that had not been duped. That is a crucial question, although the answer at macro level will not remove all the individual suffering at micro level; we are aware of that. But also here the question is to the Minister to what extent he expects this research to give a true-to-life picture of the extent and causality, together with all the limitations and missing data in mind. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the injustice suffered must be rectified as quickly as possible. It is therefore very important that children who are safe should be reunited with their parents as soon as possible. We have a number of concerns about this. During the written consultation, several parties identified the risk that slow action could have an impact on the deadlines laid down in the law and that relocation could therefore no longer be possible. The time has then been too long since the removal to a foster family. That is a legitimate concern, actually a great concern. This risk will therefore increase as the workload within the chain increases, whatever you write about, and as a result of the large number of requests for reunification. In other words, is there enough staff in the youth protection chain to tackle this problem without these deadlines? Is there not enough money? Please tell us that as a Lower House: please let us know if you need money, because this cannot stall the availability of staff to get those children back. Finally, Mr President. The Minister states in his letter that, among other things, the risk is offset by the removal of indicative deadlines from the Youth Aid and Youth Protection Expatriation Directive. As a result, there could be more room for tailor-made work, but I would like to stress that in the case of tailor-made work, too, there is a risk that slow handling will lead to people losing their children forever. I would like to receive a further response from the Minister: how is he going to prevent this? In other words, how will the children get home as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. I myself am also the father of four children, just like Mr Azarkan, I just noticed. The idea that your children can be taken from you is the biggest nightmare for parents and children. The children of the parents just want to go back home. Who the hell has the right to separate a child from his father or mother? The State certainly doesn't. The Almighty State has become a perpetrator in this file and that is unforgivable. But the State is not just an abstraction. Behind the Almighty State are perpetrators, people who have caused this knowingly and knowingly. These perpetrators must also be punished and the monster of the Almighty State must be combated. The government needs to get back in its booth. BVNL wants a small government, which does nothing more than strictly necessary. We want the freedom of the individual back: the freedom to be responsible for your own life, your own family and your own children. Again and again we see our freedoms being restricted by the State, with the excuse that it is good for the collective. But the result is a criminal government that locks us up, destroys our businesses, imposes lockdowns on us and forces us to stay inside from 9:00 p.m. So that criminal government is also prepared to take children away from their parents. It's disgusting and it really needs to stop. The letter of 31 March also breathes a strong government. It talks about parents and children with their specific needs: about debt, about helping these parents and children. They are helped by the hand that pushed them into the abyss. On social media, we read messages from desperate mothers who don't know where their children are. Is it true that child care forbids these desperate mothers to put pictures of their children on social media, and that they have to delete the pictures of their own children? They just want to know how their kids are doing; they want to see them. But it doesn't seem like it's allowed by juvenile services. My stomach is literally turning around. How did this happen? And how would this file have gone if the MPs Omtzigt, Leijten and Azarkan had not exposed this disgusting side of the government? And what do we all not know yet? What other crimes is the State currently committing? And on behalf of BVNL, I have only two requests to the Minister. Can we urgently reunite these parents with their children? I would like to hear from the Minister on what time he can do this. Can we bring the people who have been behind this criminal government to justice as soon as possible, so that they can receive appropriate punishment for the unimaginable injustice they have caused? I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about 45 minutes to prepare themselves. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u119	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the follow-up to the debate on children's removal problems. Before we start, I would like to give Mr Verkuijlen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u120	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I just want to get back to the moment of the moment. I have also reflected on this, and I regret that I actually did not allow myself to interfere with my maiden speech. I have already said that I would also ask you to allow me to interrupt as much as possible in the second term. But I don't know. If there is any possibility of completing my first term now, I would suggest that you at least allow colleagues to question me as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you. Let me take a look at my fellow Members to give them a response. There are two proposals: second time to intervene. That's something that's used anyway. But there is also another proposal: that Mr Verhuijlen should sit behind the speaker's seat to be questioned. That is Mr Verkuijlen's proposal. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u122	In fact, we were determined to ask Mr Verhuijlen the necessary questions, because they are there to ask. If Mr Verkuijlen says "you can do it now," I think it would be a good idea to do it now. It is, of course, only painful, and that is what I referred to later on, of course, for the parents who are here today. They have, I think, rightly left the bleachers. And above all for that I have really felt substitute shame, because I think they come here to hear solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you. I will go to the other colleagues and ask them for a reply. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u124	I appreciate the offer, so I'd like to ask him a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u125	I welcome the fact that Mr Verkuijlen is returning to his words, and I also appreciate the offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mrs. Maeijer, too, yes? I propose to Mr Verhuijlen to sit behind the speaker's seat. And now I would like to ask colleagues to ask two questions, if they have any questions, if they need to. It's a little unusual, but I've been inventing colleagues for a while. I saw colleagues nodding on the proposal, so we're gonna do it this way. Who can I give the floor to first? Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you once again to Mr Verhuijlen, for I had a number of questions to ask him. This has to do with the fact that the VVD is not only the largest party, it provides the Prime Minister, but also in recent years the Ministers for Legal Protection, and for that also ministers at JenV. And we have had a lot of discussions, for example with the former Minister for Legal Protection Dekker, about the legal status of parents and children. I would like to ask Mr Verhuijlen if we hear from him and from the other coalition parties that they hate what is happening to these parents and these children: what can we expect from the VVD in the near future, when it comes to improving the legal status of these parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you for that question. And before I start, I would like to say to you once again that I did not ask to speak here for nothing. And if I have given you the wrong picture, then I deeply regret it, because my involvement with you, and you must accept that from me, is very great. Mrs Westerveld's question: the legal protection of parents and children. Part of it already has legal protection, because the children already have it when they are forced to leave their homes. But if this teaches us something now, it is that legal protection is really necessary for these parents. So I'd be happy to investigate with you and see how far we can get in there and what consequences that might have. I think that Mr Ceder has already given a direction to this. But I don't think if we look at the youth protection chain, we'll be there with only legal protection. You yourself argued that, and I very much agree with you. We need to look at several aspects when it comes to facts, when it comes to the time that the judge may have. All these things together are very important, and that is why I welcome the debate we are about to have to discuss the whole system of child protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u129	Then I have a very concrete follow-up question. Because in the written consultation, the cabinet was also asked: what about free legal aid for parents who do not agree that their child should be removed from home? Then the cabinet says, "We'll help these parents." But if you read the answers to the questions correctly, this shows that, for example, the costs of the Registry are not reimbursed. I have also said to the Minister for Legal Protection that I want this to be done, arranged for these parents, but also for other parents, because access to good legal aid should never depend on what you have to spend and whether or not you dare to go to the municipality. I would like to ask whether the VVD agrees that we should simply arrange for all parents to have access to free legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u130	I understand the spirit of your comment. I also agree with you very much. But with your permission, I would first like to await the Minister's reply. If it were necessary to look together for a constructive way in which we could serve the parents, I would certainly be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u131	Handling the supplement scandal takes far too long. Even putting children out of their homes seems to continue, while everyone is aware of that scandal. At the same time, a solution for the savers who have paid too much is likely to be settled very quickly. These people will probably get all their money back this year. Does Mr Verhuijlen not think that this, although perhaps technical, should be explained politically?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u132	Well, look, you know, we're having a debate today about the removals. I'm looking at that right now. We can connect it to anything, but a removal is an independent journey. That is not in the hands of the government, in the sense that judgments on this matter lie with a judge. I think as a government we should be willing to look into it. I don't think anyone in this house thinks we should go to the zero option, so there are no more removals. I think the CDA has made a very useful comment on how we can get to the front of the problems, when it comes to debt restructuring and other things. But let us not pretend that all removals are caused by debt problems. They also have very different reasons, such as divorces of highly developed parents with a lot of money. It doesn't matter at all. But I do think we have something to do here as a government, precisely because of course we don't want to put children out of the house. That's basically something no one wants. But sometimes I have to say that it is really necessary to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u133	It is a little complicated if you can ask questions to Mr Verkuijlen now but he does not answer. I asked Mr Verhuijlen, of course, whether he could explain it technically, but did not think politically that one group was being helped very quickly, because that is what it comes down to, while another group was being crushed by the system and by the government, a group unjustly accused as a fraudster and who lost everything, to the worst of all their children. That group is back in the bleachers now, because the weather isn't getting any better. We have been talking about this for months and much longer than that, but there will be no solutions. That is what I asked Mr Verkuijlen for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u134	What I find difficult to explain to these parents is why we can't actually make more speed with each other, why we still don't know who all these parents are and why this isn't linked. I think that we really have things to do in the implementation. You make a comparison with other domains, but I think that as a government we should always do our stinking best and that no one should be favoured, but that we should do so for all citizens in the Netherlands. The same applies to this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u135	A question from Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u136	First of all, congratulations for the reflection. Maybe that'll solve something. But I checked the VVD election programme. That's full of a big, strong government. The great, strong, almighty State is going to solve everything for us, like the housing shortage, but also this kind of thing. I then wonder if the VVD does not agree with me by now that the old position of the VVD was much better: a small State should concentrate only on the strictly necessary things. This whole problem, this scandal stems precisely from the fact that we now have a bigger, more powerful government that does this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u137	I find it very difficult, when we talk about the removals, to place the State in front of families and children. I'd like to take that out for a while. A removal process takes place with aid workers, youth care and all kinds of professionals, who try to do the best for the child and the parents. There are times when tough measures need to be taken. That is perhaps also what is difficult in the debate, namely that it seems to be the State versus parents. When it comes to removals, the state isn't up to it. These are really all the aid workers who need to ensure that these children can grow up safely and with perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u139	This is pretty easy, huh? The State is against the government here, and youth care or those aid workers are also part of that State. We have created this great state, and it has become far too powerful as far as we are concerned. I think it was Ronald Reagan who said at some point that the worst thing that could happen to you is that the government is at your door and says: hello, we are the government and we are here to help you. So you're really screwed. Perhaps the follow-up question is: how does the VVD intend to control this larger State, which the VVD wants now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u140	I think that as liberals, we are of course never in favour of a very large state, and neither are you as a liberal. So the picture you're sketching... The government must be there to help people so that they can give their own lives meaning. And sometimes the government is also needed, in this case in the case of removals, to protect people. That is a very important task which the government also has. That is not to say that I am in favour of a very large government; you have not heard me say that, but you have told me that. As far as I am concerned, this government can be as thin as possible if we can offer the guarantees that children can grow up safely in this country and that they can grow up behind the front door, preferably with their parents if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u141	I hear Mr Verhuijlen saying that it is not the State to the parents. Who do the parents have to knock on? Who should they hold responsible for the situation in which they and their children are now in?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you for that question, Mrs Simons. Right now, we have the support team. They could be knocking on the door right now. It's not about knocking on the door to the state right now. The recognition of suffering is already there, even with the government at the moment. I think we can all see that. But the institutions that assess removals are now really on the move. If we really want what a number of people here in this house have said, namely to help these parents as soon as possible, then the institutions must do so: to review the matter and to produce new reports to enable a decision to be made, to talk to the parents and to see if there can be a recovery in communication with the parents. It is really the implementing organisations that are at the point of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u144	It saddens me to hear someone here from the VVD say that the State has no role at this time. Degraded parents, young people and children, but also the grandmothers and grandpas who are involved in this misery, see against them only one culprit, and that is the State. That is the State, whether that State manifests itself as the UHT, a youth care institution or a municipality. In my contribution to the Chamber and to the Cabinet, and therefore to Mr Verkielen, I asked whether it was not even time to start at the beginning and acknowledge that offendership. Well, I know after many conversations with all the victims I just mentioned that this is an essential part for them to come to emotional recovery. I actually hear Mr Verhuijlen say: the cabinet is not responsible now, the government is not responsible and the State is not responsible; no, it is the institutions, the same institutions that are part of that rotten system. I can imagine that the victims would like to hear it from the mouth of the VVD as well: yes, we acknowledge our perpetratorship. Only then can the recovery, the healing in which the parents and other victims are centered, begin. Fortunately, I still have the opportunity to ask that question, and yet here I hear someone who says: no, then you should not be with us. That hurts me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u145	That's not what I said. I didn't say that the government or the state doesn't take responsibility. We are just trying to see how we can speed up that process, but you also know very well that this is a very complex system. As a government, we need to see how we can stimulate this as much as possible. Where it is necessary to realise resources and to take measures to enable the process of those reviews to be carried out, we must do so. You're talking about guilt. As far as I am concerned, this is a matter of urgency. That's really what matters to me. Urgency, so we can reunite parents and children. The role of the State at present is to ensure that this process is brought to a successful conclusion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u146	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy, and then to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr Verkuijlen is a liberal and liberal stand for a small state. Does he recognize or does he consider that a large part of the problem we are seeing today is because the State has become far too omnipotent, that the State allows institutions to do so, it is also in the Code of Conduct to interfere far too much in family life? So, shouldn't the VVD plead for that state to be pushed back into its loft?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u148	I would just like to say a few words about what you said in your first speech, about the fact that it seemed as if the VVD did not want to be here: I hope you have also noticed that I certainly have that willingness. So I would like to reply to that. The State has a caretaker, also for children so that they can grow up in a good way. If you tell me that you think that the system is far too big and that there are far too many removals, I invite you to look at each other in the forthcoming debate on the whole system of removals to bring in less government and actually to do so, but we are not there yet. It's gonna take more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u149	The VVD is turning it into another big system story. I'll make it very concrete. Suppose we come up with a motion to call on the cabinet to change the code so that it can never happen again that the fact that parents do not have sufficient financial resources can be reason to force children to leave home. Is the VVD prepared to support such a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u150	Let me ask you a question: what is your solution when we know that? Then it's in the law, and then what? So what's gonna happen at that moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u151	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mr. Verkielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u152	Sorry, Chairman, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u153	This is a typical childish cartel trick. I know about the chairman. I've only got a few interruptions. I'm getting a question back now. I'm asking you a question. So can you answer the question I'm asking you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u154	Yes, I will, and I'd be happy to. It is a start to a solution, but ultimately... It is a pity, Mr Van Houwelingen, that Mr Van Houwelingen does not want to answer this question, because I am very curious what he wants to do with it. Including things in the Code of Criminal Law is not the solution to what is happening behind the front doors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you. Let us now turn to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you for Mr Verhuijlen's reply that he believes that at least there should be a re-evaluation of the ongoing removal routes to see if the children and parents can be reunited and, if so, in what way. The number of children who have been placed out of the house and who are victims has risen from 420 to 555 in the last year. What period should those reviews have taken place as far as Mr Verhuijlen is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u157	I thank Mr Omtzigt for that question. I've heard that question come along a few times. There is one thing that is difficult; you have also made a great deal of effort in the past: to find out who these families really are. You yourself have already said something about compulsion and urge, and that we do not have the whole picture. I would have liked to have heard today that we could link those files, so that we could get an overview and have a more active attitude, including towards those parents, precisely to help them and to go back to that re-evaluation. But I consider that question to be particularly relevant for that reason. That is why I am curious to see what the Minister will say about this. In what time do we have the list of all these victims? At the same time, I very much hope that when the support team becomes increasingly well-known, parents will also come forward and that this review can start. Because it's not a sequential process; we can do different things right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u158	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u159	Vooriztter, this is going to be difficult at once. From that link, I hope that the Secretary of State for Finance will explain why certain UHT files are not yet linked. That seemed so out of the answers. I still don't get it. I understand you can't do anything if people report now and a file isn't linked. But does the VVD agree with me that all people who report in the next week should receive such a review within a few months? And that they should also have the opportunity to get back together and that the team sitting there should also have a certain perseverance force, for example, to go directly to court on the basis of the changed circumstances and say: do it now? Or is it still an advisory club? So would he like to give me more options to that team and add one or two people, as I asked, and set a deadline of, say, three or four months so that at least these ongoing removals can be re-evaluated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u160	I am certainly prepared to go along with Mr Omtzigt, but I would like to get the answers first, because it must be realistic, so I do want to have the right expectations with each other. But I would like nothing more, and neither would my group, than to do what you say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u161	That's right, compliments to Mr. Verkielen. Better half-turned than completely lost. I have a question on a point that has been specifically put to me by a number of parents, namely that the ex-partner does not behave favourably and actually keeps the child away or behaves in such a way that the benevolent partner is always the victim. I was curious to see what Mr Verkuijlen thinks about how we can do something about that. In fact, it's some kind of restraint, some kind of keeping the kid away, you don't keep the agreements. How can we accommodate these parents in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr Azarkan asks this question. I think that is the most torn-up situation, because I have also spoken to these parents, seeing that one of the parents is being expelled or that transitional arrangements are not being complied with. That is not entirely in the removal places, but it was interesting what Mr.Ceder said about that there are also possibilities where you do not put the child out of the house, but possibly one of the parents. Trials are also carried out in different municipalities. My colleague, Mr Ellian, is also working to see how, in practice, we can make more precision in the enforcement of this regulation. It's just a transitional arrangement. I totally agree with you that this is really frightening. If people fail to comply with this arrangement, it is painful for the child and ultimately for both parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u163	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u164	I was hoping to hear a little more than the generalities that Mr Verkielen agrees with me that it is painful for those parents. That it is painful, they experience daily. The question is: what can we, as politicians, do for them? What can we do here together with the cabinet to ensure that this goes faster and differently? I would also like to draw Mr Verhuijlen's attention to his own election programme. In that he writes something else. He writes in that, at least as a VVD, that one also wants to try through criminal law to keep that away from the child. So it's not noncommittal. So it really is an ex-partner who does not comply with the agreements, does not comply with the agreements and so on. I was curious to see where exactly that should be given room in that Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u165	This isn't really my file. Mr. Azarkan just said, "You fall into generalities." I think I just mentioned two points. One is that if there are removals, you can also place one of the parents out of the house. The second was that there should be more enforcement of the transitional regime. If you want to have more enforcement on the transitional arrangements and you have to settle that in the Criminal Code, then there are options to do so. There are also developments to do that. There have also been recommendations from the various institutions to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u166	Thank you. That really brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. Thank you very much, Mr Verkielen. First, I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that we all, groups in the Chamber, coalition, opposition, cabinet, feel that we are talking today about an emotional and also complicated subject. It's about families. It's about the lives of parents and children who have been hit very hard. Expatriation of your child is an absolute nightmare for every parent. That's why I think we're all standing here with a heavy heart. In fact, the government has not been the shield for the weaker, as the government should have been. On the contrary. The child care allowance affair has put families in financial difficulties, which has resulted in many people ending up in a swamp of misery. This is also reflected in the survey that duped parents started on removals. Parents outline how their lives ended up in a free fall due to debt and what this meant for relationship and family problems. Sometimes there was even loss of business, home or shelter. Sometimes the ultimate consequence was that children were placed out of the house. In the direction of the parents, they are partly present here and their children I say that it is extremely painful that the government was at the source of this misery as a result of the child care allowance affair. I repeat that the previous cabinet apologized and apologized here today. They touch the parents and the children for all the suffering that has been done to them. That was examined in the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Children should be able to grow up in a safe and loving environment. This is, of course, preferably and in the first place so desirable at home, with their own parents. At the same time, of course, it can always be the case that the situation at home becomes so difficult that the children there cannot grow up safe. Then an out-of-home placement can be considered as a last resort. These decisions cannot be made solely on the basis of debt. Sometimes it has been suggested that removals took place because of debts. In the debate, I am also glad to see that you cannot put it this way immediately. What you can say is this. I thought that the President-in-Office of the Council for Justice, Mr Naves, said yesterday in the interview in the NRC in a good way, which appealed to me. He strongly contradicted that there would be a simple link between a debt with the Tax Administration and a removal. But having said that, there is, of course, a link in many cases. As I just put it, situations arose either because of debt or because of misery in families, sometimes up to and including literally the loss of a business or, worse still, its own home. In all cases, relocations are distressing, whether due to the childcare allowance affair or to other causes. That is why our joint commitment must always be to protect children and, if possible, reunite families, or at least restore contact. I'd like to add something. Maybe that'll cause irritation. But I would also like to say here that in general terms, and I can never say that for every dossier, decisions on removals are not taken lightly. The people who work on it in the youth care sector and our judges do so in good conscience. I'm really gonna defend that here. The cabinet also represents those people. But where there have been poignant situations and where situations need to be repaired, we must do everything we can to achieve them. However, I would also like to say here that the cabinet also stands for youth care and also stands for our judges, who have to take decisions in this very difficult situation. Mr. Chairman. I will answer some of my questions in a moment. My suggestion is that then the Minister for Legal Protection will follow up, because a large part of the questions of course affect his area, and that then the Secretary of State of VWS, Maarten van Ooijen, and the Secretary of State for Fees and Customs, Aukje de Vries, will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u168	Thank you. There's been some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u169	The Prime Minister himself announced that his remark might lead to irritation. I can assure him that this is the case. He states that, in general, action is carried out with utmost care. But that is precisely the problem: it is not. That is not what the Prime Minister is going to do, as far as I am concerned, because people are knowingly not doing it right. It is precisely the youth care providers who repeatedly state that things are not going very carefully and at all, because they do not have the time, not the colleagues and do not have the information. It is the judges who, as I understand, have already called you twice without having received an answer, and who state themselves: it is not going very carefully, because we do not have the right information. How could something go carefully, as they themselves say, if parents are not even heard? How can you say that something could go carefully if there are situations where people are not even heard? This indicates all the people involved, the people who work in youth care, the judges and the people who are involved and who experience it themselves. There are situations where there is no possibility of appeal. How can you say that it is generally careful? The problem is that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u170	I think different things are true here at the same time. I did not say that Mrs Marijnissen or others were blaming the youth services or the judges. I have not actually heard anyone say that in this debate. But I also think it is important, because this sector, too, is of course addressed, that we all radiate that we stand for the professionals in this sector. I think that's important. That is not to place me in front of Mrs Marijnissen, but I also think it is our joint task to protect our professionals. At the same time, I think Mrs Marijnissen is right to address this, and the question is how much appreciation you give for it and to what extent it is playing. I think she has raised a number of important points there. Mistakes are being made. The system has vulnerabilities. Reference has been made to the report published, the factsheet of Professor Bruning of Leiden University. You have also seen that for this reason Franc Weerwind, the Minister, has decided to come up with a more fundamental revision of the whole system on the basis of which we are also legally shaping our youth care in the Netherlands. We will continue to do so in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u171	Look, I think the problem is that the Prime Minister says he wants to protect the professionals, but that's exactly what he's not doing. That's what I think putting down a false contradiction. The Prime Minister pretends to stand up for the professionals, but he drops them hard. That's what those professionals say themselves; I've just listed them all. That's what gets people in big trouble. So it would adorn the Prime Minister if he recognized that. If we do not even recognise the structural failure, a solution is very far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u172	It is not so black-and-white that everything is wrong in youth care and that there would be absolutely no support. I disagree with Mrs Marijnissen. I think that's too black and white. That's how I understand her words. But if no one says that, then we agree. What I am saying to her is that, in fact, there are serious problems that need to be addressed. I also believe that this can be appointed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mrs Arib, PvdA, and then Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u174	The Prime Minister started off well, but suddenly he started to put a few things into perspective, among other things, what caused this misery. I have always said in my contribution that this is the supplementing affair, but you can see that it is said in all the documents that there have been problems and that the supplementing affair also plays a role. It actually suggests that this has not been decisive. I'd still like to hear from the Prime Minister how he responds to the Kinderombudsman's ruling. Let me just quote a short sentence: "The pressure exerted by the Tax Administration on parents has led to poverty and stress among the severely injured, and we know that these are factors that increase the risk of removal. Therefore, there will undoubtedly be children who would not have been placed out of the house if the Tax Administration had not intervened so harshly."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u175	I think that's true from a to z.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u177	That some...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u178	I agree with the Children's Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u179	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u180	I do not agree that there is a direct link between the existence of debt and the removal of a child. But I agree with what the Children's Ombudsman has formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u181	So the Prime Minister acknowledges that the Tax Administration has played a decisive role in relation to the parents who are victims of it, and that their children have been evicted by it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u182	That's not how I read the quote. I read the quote as follows. Having debts as a result of the child care allowance affair has put parents in terrible trouble. In this affair, of course, there is a special responsibility of the Tax Administration, which we have previously established with each other. Parents have sometimes literally lost their homes and fireplaces and have been given severe tension in the family. This can contribute to a situation in which the child may also be insecure. It may well have been caused from a to z by those debts. It could be. But you can't say, as has sometimes been said, that didn't happen here, but I've read that in the media sometimes there's always a direct link of one hundred percent between debt and removals. That's not true. However, it may well be that these problems are caused by these debts, causing problems for a family and ultimately creating an unsafe situation as a result of which youth care says: this cannot go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u183	I find it extremely regrettable that there is some sort of chicken egg discussion going on. One of the most important things parents need is, I think, real recognition. If it is acknowledged that mistakes have been made by the government, that the Tax Administration has made people's lives miserable...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u184	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u185	... then it is very sad to hear somewhere between the words that perhaps there were other problems, which makes it a bit nuanced. I'm very sorry about that, including the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u186	But then it is a good thing that Mrs Arib asks this question again, because then there is a misunderstanding. It is not for nothing that the Secretary of State for Fees and Customs and myself should send an apology letter to anyone who has had to do with this terrible child care allowance affair to say: you have been wrongly appointed by the State as a fraud. We have talked for too long about giving back money, about compensation, when they are just entitled to receive the money that belongs to them. Terrible things have happened. I thought I understood Mrs Arib so well that she was talking about the link between the terrible things that are going on and the issue of the relocations that are now being discussed and the coincidence of those two matters. That's where I put that nuance. You can't always say that's a direct link.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you. Mr Azarkan, then Mrs Maeijer and then Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u188	The Prime Minister's remark is not only in the wrong throat, it is simply inappropriate. I'm really asking him to reflect on that again. Look, what these parents have been through is that they came to court in many places and that the judge said, "Yes, the IRS is taking the right measures. That's been thought through very carefully. You're all wrong." If these parents ended up somewhere, they wouldn't be listened to. What the Prime Minister is doing right now is he's sticking up for the professionals. This Prime Minister must stand up for the parents who have gotten into trouble as a result of the government's actions. It's an inappropriate comment, because it's not relevant either. There is no one here who has said that it has always been used wrongly, that people have done it lightly. What we're discussing here is that a group of parents are sitting here in the bleachers and watching at home and saying: I wouldn't have gotten into trouble if that government had done its job properly. That's what the Prime Minister has to say to those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u189	And that's what I'm saying. I fully agree with what Mr Azarkan said, as he concludes. I agree with him from A to Z. The question that has been raised here today in this debate is the coincidence between these terrible facts and the fact that a group of children has been evicted, and there is a coincidence, in which parents have also had to deal in a terrible way with the child care allowance affair. That is what the debate is about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u190	Yes, and then it is totally irrelevant to say here that in general the right decisions are taken. Again, we have a group of parents who wouldn't have gotten into trouble if the government hadn't discriminated against them, if the government hadn't highlighted them on the basis of false algorithms, hadn't hunted them down and then put them in such trouble that they'd spend years trying to get justice. Those parents stand here and see a Prime Minister who says: yes, but wait a minute, we make mostly careful decisions. We always stand up for the professionals: whether they're civil servants, even at fees, it's always included for them. Why don't you take it up for those parents for the bad guys? And I agree with the Prime Minister that there may not be a direct link in the sense that as a judge you say "you're to blame and so I'll get you out." But we owe it to all these parents to investigate that carefully, as soon as possible, not to sit back and say: we're going to investigate it again et cetera. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u191	I fully agree with Mr Azarkan that parents who have fallen victim to this terrible affair with the childcare allowance do not have to rely in any way on our understanding of the Tax Office staff who were responsible for this. I totally agree with him. What we are talking about today is the coincidence between this terrible issue and the fact that there have been removals among that group of children. However, I stand before the youth care professionals and our judges in the Netherlands, and I continue to do so. You're not gonna get me off that either. In my absolute conviction, they do not take that kind of decision lightly, however complicated it may be. I also agree with Mr Azarkan and everyone else, and I brought this up with Mrs Marijnissen, that if you look at whether we have set up the system in such a way that these professionals can do that work properly, one finger points out and three to ourselves. We also agree that we have to improve that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u192	First Mrs Maeijer, then Mrs Westerveld and Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u193	The Prime Minister just recalled the resignation of his previous cabinet. He also recalled the excuses that were made. But then I get the feeling: what is that worth? If we know that 1,675 children have been placed out of the house in this scandal, if there are 555 children left in the house, if parents sitting here watching now still lose their children, if we are seven months away now and we have made some progress, what is all that worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u194	Well, we've moved on, haven't we? Action is being taken now, but it is still terrible what has happened. In any case, those excuses apply to all the parents who have had to deal with that terrible affair, which, without their fault, ended up in the wheels of the system, have been crushed by the wheels of the State. That's what the apology goes for. What we are talking about today is that it is partly because of this, but not necessarily solely because of it, that is something we simply do not know, even once again, about the terrible fact that more than 1,600 children have been removed from home, of which more than 500 have actually been removed from home at the moment. This seems to be a smaller number, but we also know that a quarter of the difference is due to the fact that children have become 18 years old. So let's not tell each other anything: that 555 is also a flattering figure. So it really is a serious matter. That is also why the cabinet is working to support parents to clarify their situation as soon as possible, if they so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u195	I'm having trouble with that anyway. People have lost their children! Those kids are gone. Some people don't even know where their kids are. There's no contact anymore. I think that the reminiscence of apology and the remembrance of the resignation of the cabinet is very empty if at the moment, after seven months, no child has been reunited with his parents. There are people here in the gallery who have to listen to that emptiness and lack of action. Prime Minister, please, what are you going to do concretely to ensure that these people are done justice and that there are urgent reviews of the ongoing removals, preferably before 1 July? 'Cause otherwise all this is empty. Then, as far as I'm concerned, the resignation and the apologies are empty and the trust is lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u196	Firstly, I would like to say to Mrs Maeijer that there is no discussion about the whole child care allowance affair. It's so serious. De Vries and I are not sending letters to anyone who has had to do with that case, in which we apologize on behalf of the State. There's no discussion about that. We are talking today about the fact that there is also a coincidence with over 1,600 children. They're part of that horrible affair and there have been removals. That number is disproportionate. It is a task of all of us to ensure that there is a system that looks properly at how we can support parents to put the situation right, if possible, if the parents so wish and if possible. The cabinet has sent a letter on this subject, which we are defending here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u197	Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u198	People lose faith in politics when they hear politicians say very nice words, while at the same time they see something different in practice. I am pleased that the Prime Minister acknowledges that things are not going well in the youth system, which has been laid down year after year by inspections, the Children's Ombudsman and all kinds of scientists. However, I am glad that it is now recognised that things are not going well in the youth care system. I am also pleased with the warm words, but, of course, action must be taken. I would like to say the following to the Prime Minister. If he means these warm words, he immediately deletes the 500 million cut, then he ensures that youth care workers get what they are entitled to, and then he ensures that this cut does not end up with vulnerable young people and their parents in another way, through his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u199	I disagree with Mrs Westerveld. I just don't agree with that. A government also has to ensure that it fulfils all the obligations that the Cabinet and the Chamber have jointly to govern this country as properly as possible. Choices must be made in the scarcity that exists. A lot of extra money has gone to youth care in recent years. We also know that youth care has not increasingly focused on the most serious cases. There has been a selection towards lighter cases. This means that we need to fundamentally rethink how we want to organise youth care. As regards the legal framework: Franc Weerwind came forward with this yesterday, in the answer to the parliamentary questions and in the letter. We're going to do that in response to the report from Leiden. Everything we do is, of course, important, because otherwise we wouldn't. But that does not mean that we cannot also look at its financial impact. When you say you need to be watched, you don't say it doesn't matter. I disagree with Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u200	I know what's going on in juvenile services. Over the last five years, I have had constant debates on youth care. We have been constantly calling the bell and saying: the most vulnerable children are not doing well, the legal protection for parents is not doing well and the number of removal places is not doing well. We have always put forward proposals for this. We've been ringing the bell all the time in the cabinet. That's been ignored all the time. Now there is a task to reform the system. On this mission there is a cut in the budget, and on top of that, the cabinet cuts even more, on youth care workers. This is also at the expense of vulnerable children and their parents. That is why my appeal is: make sure that the system is in order first and that all the committee's recommendations are followed up. There's already a cut in there. Don't do that extra cut on top of that, because that's what this cabinet wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u201	My previous answer is that we do not agree on this. I agree with Mrs Westerveld that the principles of the whole reform agenda are precisely to ensure that appropriate care is available to the most vulnerable children. I think that's what we think together. This applies to children who, for example, need care through a child protection measure. Because if that happens, then that necessary care must also be there. We can now see that in some cases it is not properly regulated. That's what this whole reform is all about. However, it is not the case that a reform in a particular sector always means that it is not possible to look at the financial impact. We will have to continue to do so, because otherwise we will not be able to make those necessary choices with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u202	Thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy, and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u203	I hear a Prime Minister who's gonna look at the system, who's gonna send letters and who's probably gonna set up hotlines. The parents weren't helped with that. There are currently an estimated hundreds of children who, among other things, have been unjustly removed from their homes in relation to the supplementing affair. That's awfully bad. Every day it continues is an unprecedented injustice. So why can he not simply say, instead of coming up with all the system reforms that take a very long time, that we are going to have an okay going out today or tomorrow, so that those children, who are wrongly placed and against the will of the parents from those families, are immediately placed back? We may then be able to re-assess it, but then we will immediately undo the injustice that is still going on today. That'll help the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u204	I think this is a very unwise proposal. Mr Van Houwelingen actually says: a removal has by definition been a wrong decision. Mr. Van Houwelingen doesn't know that, and I don't know that. It is necessary, however, that this is exactly what the cabinet is doing now in order to provide support and assistance to parents and children. That whole system with that support team.. one of the people from that team had this morning an impressive interview in the Volkskrant.. was developed to support parents and children very quickly. That's what we have to do. Mr Van Houwelingen says: by definition, it is not right and we are bringing all the children involved back home. This seems to me to be an unwise proposal, which is also contrary to the interests of some children for whom that might be a very wrong decision. We don't know that. Let's let the professionals look at that. We have the support team for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u205	So here's the problem. In fact, you are always hiding behind the so-called professionals. You say that the children's interests are not served and the professionals would know. At the moment, there is enormous injustice. The Prime Minister just said: yes, that is not being done lightly. A lot of parents have grabbed us and now they are sitting in the gallery and have said that it regularly prevents children from being unjustly placed out of the house. And that's what's happening now. Those parents are desperate. That's a huge tragedy. Everything must be done to rectify this as quickly as possible. You may have to accept that in a number of cases you should have solved things differently afterwards, but you cannot allow the enormous injustice that is currently going on to continue. You need to do something about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u206	I think Mr Van Houwelingen's proposal is really unwise. He says, "Get all the kids back home." We don't know what kind of situations that would lead to. It may well be that I agree with Mr Van Houwelingen that the situation is now that children are back. In fact, if you look back at it again, you may have to come to the conclusion that the removal should not have taken place. But that's what the professionals are for. The support team brings together all the people involved and tries to find solutions as soon as possible, with the necessary push in the right direction. That's what we're doing right now. I think that is a sensible approach. That is why it is also necessary to have a closer look at the coincidence: who are those children who are victims of the child care allowance affair and who have been placed out of the house at the same time? You have also seen in the documents that we intend to come forward with a proposal to clarify this within two weeks, so that parents can be more actively informed about this possibility of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u207	For me, it is really incomprehensible that a liberal is the prime minister who is a liberal so laconically reacts to this situation. The State should only be able to intervene in the family in extreme cases. The family should be a safe base. That is not the case now, so the state must be driven away. And if you don't, we'll have to do it as a room. You're like, "Let God's water run over God's field."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u208	At the moment, unfortunately, there are many children in the Netherlands who are not at home with their parents, apart from the terrible child care allowance affair. Also in general, there are children who are not at home. Does Mr Van Houwelingen say that they are all unjustly not home? You can't say that like that. You can't say that. It is not in the best interests of the child, nor in the best interests of the family if you say so. I really disagree fundamentally with that. What I do want is for us to be able to bring parents and children together in order to determine whether it is still necessary, and then perhaps to establish that it was a wrong decision at all. It could be. But saying "those kids should all go back home" can create situations that you absolutely don't want to take care of. We don't know that, do we? Let's let the professionals look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u209	Everyone has six questions, so it's up to you, Mr. Van Houwelingen, to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u210	But I provoked this one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u211	Thank you. Given what we've all heard, all day long, you hear the parents reacting in the public gallery.Our estimate is, of course, that it's a balance sheet.Of course, that the injustice by allowing this to persist is greater than the hypothetical chance that a child might return to a family that shouldn't have come back. As far as we are concerned, children can only be placed out of their homes against the will of parents, which is extremely dramatic if, for example, there is serious abuse. In many cases, however, the parents in the gallery are also so angry about this for lightly reason. Basically, it's said, "Oh, it's better for the child." Children are being unjustly ripped out of the family and families are being destroyed. So, on balance, it is indeed better to put it right at once and then accept that in some cases it might have been better not to have happened. Then we are better off than now to come up with letters, hotlines and system reforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u212	Mr. Chairman. I'm referring to the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u213	I am going to see Mr Omtzigt, because he was a little earlier than Mrs Simons. Oh, Mr. Ommzigt, you're okay with this? Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u214	Thanks to Mr Omtzigt. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he knows whether or not children are already in existence, and I am only talking about children of parents who have been affected by the supplement scandal since we were told, more than seven months ago or longer, that they are children of parents affected by the supplement scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u215	No, because we have no idea of those lists other than the investigation of the Central Bureau of Statistics. You can see that the expectation is that for some children it is very likely that they will be back home. But the problem is this. On the one hand, we have the file with children placed out of the house and, on the other hand, the children who have had to deal with the child care allowance affair. That's over 50,000, or even 60,000. The overlap between them is over 1,600. However, we have no idea who they are. That is why we are looking at how we can quickly see that convergence between these two groups. In two weeks' time, that proposal will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u216	The average procedure for an exit placement from the time of a notification or the time when the journey goes to court, i.e. if there has already been a judicial process, is three weeks. Within three weeks, it can be decided whether as a mother I lose my child. Now we're seven months away. We know from a limited group of kids that the overlap is there. Their parents have been duped. We're seven months later, and we can't put the kids back. If we separate this from the dossier at hand, namely the child care allowance affair or, rather, the child care allowance scandal, I can imagine that as a government or as an executive, we would like to know where children are going at all, for what reason they have been put out of the house and how likely it is that, as required by the rules, they would prefer to be back with their parents within a year. I am very curious how it can be that we simply do not know where these children are and how it can exist that they have disappeared in the system for seven months. I see the Prime Minister is looking at Minister Weerwind. I imagine he's thinking: that's the minister who's talking about it. But I can't wait to hear the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u217	We're gonna listen to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u218	As I have just said, we are talking about over 1,600 children who have had to deal with families in which this terrible issue of the childcare allowance affair has been raised and who have also been removed from their homes. The question you need to answer is whether we are able to see each other, as a government, where that overlap is. The answer is that this is not legally settled in the Netherlands. There have undoubtedly all been good reasons from privacy and other reasons not to allow such links. The Minister for Legal Protection has proposed that this be made possible. Why? Because then you will be able to actively point out to parents who have had to deal with this, that they can join those support teams, so that more people can be helped there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u219	I would like to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u220	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u221	The reason why I would like to ask that question is that, as usual, I have not been given an answer to the questions I asked myself: how can we take children out of the house, regardless of the cause of child allowances or not, and then lose them in the system? If there had been another reason for putting these 1,600 kids out of the house, would we know where they are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u222	Of course we know by itself which children have been placed out of the house. The point is that you can look at the combination between the group that has been placed out of the house, I say from my mind that that in the Netherlands is about the 30,000 children who are.. and the children who are part of the child care allowance affair, but that you cannot find out at person level who they are. That is simply not allowed. That is not what the legislation is for. What Weerwind, the Minister for Legal Protection, is proposing is to make that possible. That doesn't go through a complicated law change, because then you'll be busy for years. In two weeks' time, he will come up with a proposal on how, hopefully within four months, you will be able to see that coincidence, because I think we all want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u223	Then we'll go to Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u224	I would have understood these answers if they had been given seven months ago. What happened in the last seven months? There are more children out of this group than a year ago. As early as July 2021, Secretary of State Van Huffelen said: many of the children of disabled parents have grown up in problematic circumstances as a result of the child care allowance problems; children have experienced poverty among others, and the stressful home situation has led to broken families or even child removal. Then came the report of the CBS after a piece by Harriët Duurvoort and questions from the Christian Union, the CDA and the SP. Then a motion came here in November, Chamberwide. That motion said: please do two things; make sure you know what you're talking about and do an independent investigation and make sure those children are reunited. That independent investigation hasn't started yet. Well, there was no one here who thought, in seven months, everything will work out. But it didn't work out at all. How does the Prime Minister see what happened between November and now in the light of what the Chamber has commissioned here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u225	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u226	I would like to add two more things, Mr President. It's not an "extravagance" thing. It's not a "terrible issue." It is a scandal with deliberate decisions that led to removal. And from now on, I ask the Prime Minister to use only the word'scandal', not 'affair' as something light-footed that has happened. And I'm gonna ask if those support teams are gonna get perseverance, too. 'Cause you can talk to it, but they can't review the decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u227	I disagree with Mr Omtzigt that it would not have been enough since it became known in September last year that extracurriculars had to do with removal. I believe and maintain that from that moment on, in close consultation with the Chamber, the Cabinet has quickly and carefully taken all the steps that led to the Weerwind letter of March on the further approach with the support teams, which are now also active and which are greatly appreciated by the people involved. I'm gonna keep that standing right here. This became known in September. In the CBS, the former Minister for Legal Protection asked for an analysis. It came in October. Then a broad approach has been taken, with all the relevant bodies, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the municipalities, but also, of course, all the ministries involved, to ensure that these support points could be set up, that we could test with them, that we would not make empty promises and that we could arrange something very quickly that you as a government know it cannot be done quickly. And now it does, because we've done it carefully. The certified institutions and the Council for the Protection of the Child have also been in the process for some time. They have been working since the end of last year, and are particularly alert to signals that there has been a loss. They're looking at how they can provide their extra support. As of April 4th, the structure of the independent support teams will be present. I'm glad they do. We can scale those teams up if we need to. It's appreciated. I'm not in favour of giving their perseverance power. That's interference in the system. Weatherwind, the Minister for Legal Protection, is going to look at how the system should be revised more fundamentally. We're open to any signal if this didn't work and it needed more. But let's give it as a government, just as was described in the Volkskrant this morning by people who are now working as part of the support team, one chance now, if we have come up with a solution to a terrible issue. Actually, people were almost begging in the paper this morning. We've been at it for a few weeks now. The first experiences are positive. Don't break it by pulling on the grass to make it grow faster, because then you pull the whole grass out. That's how I'm gonna sum it up. I would also like to thank Mr Omtzigt for his guidance on the words I should use.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u228	There is no independent investigation yet, but that was asked. Here's what I'm gonna say about the support teams. I don't blame the professionals. They're doing the best they can. But I'm really surprised there isn't a child back after seven months. I'm talking to the parents. I have conversations at night about suicide attempts by those kids. That's what you're talking about. But they cannot be found, while the Secretary of State for Finance knows that the blacklists are shared with everyone in the Netherlands, including the private sector and municipalities. Everyone, except the parents themselves, should know that they were a fraud, even if that was wrong. 300,000 people were blacklisted. That got them in trouble. And now that something has to be corrected, there is no perseverance. I urge this government to think very strongly about this and to ensure that there is an opinion so that, for example, a judge can review the decision on the basis of Article 1:265d of the Civil Code on the basis of changed insights, because the judge did not know that this was a victim in the supplement scandal. And I ask this government to also engage in the conversation with the parents sitting there. 'Cause we've been two years. Apologies aren't around anymore. And I want at least all the cases of the parents that have been reported to be re-evaluated before the summer. I'll be here all summer if I have to, and I'll be here every week to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u229	First of all, towards Mr Omtzigt: no one here will deny that if there is anyone working on this terrible case day and night, he is. There is the greatest respect for that from the cabinet, and wide from the Chamber. There's no discussion about that. But I also disagree with his argument from a to z. Disagree! A, I disagree that this is taking too long. From the moment this became known, we have set up a careful process to ensure that we children and parents are not mistakenly picturing something that we cannot deliver, as happens too often from the government. And Mr Omtzigt has often warned of this: be sure that if you do something, you can also do so. The second thing I disagree with is the perseverance force. If it's necessary later, we'll look into it, but just give this system a chance. The people who are working on it say it works. What we do have to do, and I have already said that Omtzigt and I agree that we need to know which children this is about. That's what we're dealing with right now. Not to say "then everyone has been re-assessed for a certain date"; we cannot promise that at all. What we can do is to ensure that these parents are reminded of this system, so that they are helped in a very good, sensible way, with great respect and independence. And that investigation, there is; there is an independent investigation. Only, Mr Omtzigt denies that the inspections are independent. I disagree with him. I am also standing before the inspections, which are independent. Why is there only one inspection and not two, like he asked? Because one inspection is leading, that of the Justice Department, and the other is helping. There's no special story behind that. Mr Omtzigt had a motion adopted on a committee. The cabinet has said: we will take it from here, we just have to talk about how to fill it out. That is what ideas lie for, but I can also imagine with Mr Omtzigt and with the Chamber. I think that Mr Weerwind, the Minister for Legal Protection, will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u230	I'm sorry, but the inspection is system responsible. And while that system responsibility existed, this scandal has unfolded. And there is no one who has intervened for the past ten years and has thought "we see this." As I did not think it wise for a Donner committee to be involved, I think it is wise for the investigation to be invested elsewhere. I have also said this from day one, both to Minister Dekker and to Minister Weerwind, where I was kindly welcomed, and made proposals to do so differently. Not because I want to slow it down, but because I want to come out together. I don't mirror anyone. But I would like to point out that as early as December 2019, the first stories were in the gallery: Janet "Janet" in De Telegraaf. We've been two and a half years. And yes, if I have to conclude that the Dutch government is not able to do justice in one of these cases in those two and a half years, then I find that an extremely painful observation, because that means that many lives have simply stopped. I would therefore ask the government to set a deadline for itself for at least the ongoing routes, so that people who are now dealing with a relocation can be re-assessed. And I understand that in all cases this is not an 'immediate', in the Prime Minister's reply to FVD's colleague... So you can't take all those kids home in one go, I get that. But a re-evaluation is, I think, the minimum that we owe to these parents and children as politicians, as Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u231	That is where we are at odds. I say that in all honesty, because I do not want to bake sweet sandwiches here either. I really have a different view on how this dossier should be further developed. And that is laid down in the letter like the cabinet that also sent to the Chamber: through the support teams; and it is the parents who then report. What we must achieve is that we know which parents they are, so that they can come forward, so that we can remind them of that structure. So ultimately, it's up to them to do that. And those support services, the first experiences with them, are positive. Give that a few weeks, a few months, I even say, a chance. And Weerwind, the Minister, has also written to the Chamber that if we find that it is necessary to give further legal support to those teams, so do we. But precisely in this structure, as it has now been carefully chosen, this seems to work well. All evidence, including from the trials and now from the practice, is positive. Let's give it a chance. If you give perseverance power now, you're gonna break into the system completely and you're gonna have to deal with major legislative changes. That's just gonna slow things down. If I have had one experience in recent years with the comprehensive settlement of everything related to the childcare allowance, it is that constantly changing the approach only leads to delays, which means that we are still working for years. Let's not make that mistake here. Really, that's what I'm arguing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u232	Then we'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u233	I think it's painful that this doesn't help people. This is precisely what we in the Chamber hear every time about everything that has gone wrong in the supplement scandal, including, for example, the handling and compensation. Each time we and a lot of other groups have warned in advance: this is not working. That is what we have said on the road: this is not working. Then they ask: how do you want it? Then we come up with alternatives, then we have a plan. For example, we have a one-day settlement plan and how we could do the compensation differently. There is now also a plan made by the parents themselves: how could you solve the situation around the removal? It is all put aside, every time exactly with this argument, namely: that is only going to slow down; give it a chance now. But the trust is gone, Prime Minister. The trust is gone, with the parents involved, with the children who have been placed out of the house, but also with us as a group, I notice, because we hear this argument every time. And if it worked, you wouldn't hear us. But we're here after seven months, and it doesn't work. Is the outcome of today's debate that the Prime Minister says: I do not really see the problem; you know what, do you have a little patience? If that were the outcome of this debate, I honestly cannot reconcile myself with it, and I do not think many people are with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u234	I didn't say anything at all: have a little patience. I just said I'm against a perseverance force for the support teams. This is something we have jointly, cabinet and chamber, designed since October. It has been tested and now works in practice since April 4th. The first experiences are positive. I urge you to give that a chance now. That's what I'm saying. That's not delaying, that's accelerating. I don't think it's wise to intervene on that now. We need to know where the coincidence is. I've said that a few times. So I disagree with that. I think it is also good to just once in a while, in these debates, to mark the fact that we do not agree with each other. Then there will have to be motions and explanations of vote to see how the majority views them. But I think it's important to give this a chance now. We have put that vision here as a cabinet and I support it from a point of view. This is based on a lot of conversations with a lot of experts, including with parents, also from the evaluation of recovery supplements. It has been established that with this way of cooperation, with short lines and with agencies that are all quickly accessible and able to see exactly what is going on in an out-of-home placement, you are able to actually offer help. In addition, of course, legal aid will be free of charge as from 1 June. That is not yet settled; it will be done on 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u235	I note that this cabinet is not learning anything when it comes to restoring confidence, not even in this process. Because, yes, Prime Minister, those motions will certainly be made and those statements in the Chamber too; I am confident in that. That's how it's been in the supplemental scandal all along, with just about everything. It even came to the table because of statements in the Chamber. Take the fact that people had to be informed that they were blacklisted; I'm just saying. The cabinet did not want that; it had to be based on a ruling in the Chamber. At that time it might have been nice to inform these people about why they were blacklisted. A motion had to be adopted for this. That's the way it is all the time. That is why I ask you not to be stubborn in this, but to understand once again that it may work much better if people themselves come up with a plan. Well, let's be specific, because you mentioned the support team. I have here the evaluation of the pilot phase. It is precisely the support team itself that says about the re-evaluation of removals that we cannot offer because the mandate for this is with existing bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u236	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u237	So they say: We cannot offer them. But let that be exactly what it takes. Can't you imagine it's funny for people when they're dealing with a team again? And again, nothing to the detriment of the people, nothing to the detriment of the professionals. So you do not have to hide behind it, and you do not have to defend it, because I will defend it. But do you understand that it's crazy for people to have to deal with an agency that just doesn't have a dick to say that can't decide anything that can't solve anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u238	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u239	If it didn't work, yes. But the first experience is that it does work, that the approach with the support team does work. The first experience is that it is precisely by involving everyone, that the right decisions are taken and that it happens quickly. The whole legal base is changing now and the whole approach is unwise. So I really disagree. You're welcome to do that, Mr. Chairman. And I'll mark that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u240	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij, SGP, and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u241	The cabinet says it gives the support team a very important place, and good reasons have been given for that. But I think it has rightly been pointed out from the Chamber that in contacts with a lot of parents, it is precisely a rapid re-evaluation that is a key factor in the wishes they have. Can't these worlds get closer to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u242	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u243	If a case is raised with a support team and people are asking for that re-evaluation, is it also said that this re-evaluation will be carried out quickly, that there will be clarity when it takes place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u244	That is what Mr Weerwind is about to discuss. The answer is, of course, that can be done now. There's just a system where you report to the certified institution, and then there has to be a reaction in two weeks, et cetera, and then the judge comes in. But Franc Weerwind will go into that in a moment. Those things, of course, have something to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u245	Thank you. Members are, of course, concerned with their own interruptions, but there are still a number of rulers. Everyone has six questions. Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yes, but there's only one prime minister. And he promised in the coalition agreement of 15 December that there would be an acceleration in the handling of the cases of the victims in the supplement scandal. Well, it's just that everyone who's involved in that kind of thing actually says, "This is not going well." The Ombudsman said that. That's in his report Complaint is well founded, but no solution. It says that the handling is delayed. We hear it from lawyers about everything related to fees. We also hear it from the parent panel. So everybody says this isn't going well. Now the Prime Minister says: we want to make a promise that we will speed up. Now there has to be another solution to a big problem due to the action of that government, now something has to be done again, and in that area he just has a very bad track record. So it's not so crazy that the Chamber says: it has to be faster, it has to be better and those parents have to get out of trouble faster. How is the Prime Minister going to implement that and the promise he made to speed things up when it comes to handling everything that has to do with surcharges?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u247	In addition, the review operation is, of course, leading. It's not finished either. You have been given the final status of what we are doing in all the documents that have been sent for this debate. This is also stated in the reply of the Secretary of State for Increases and Customs. And what you're actually seeing is that at the moment, a very large group of people at least had the initial assessment and that those people, if they're eligible for the Catshuis scheme, got that amount, too. Furthermore, one can see that for an important group the initial assessment is still under way and that, of course, in many cases, the full assessment is still to be carried out. The re-checking operation was aimed at a further acceleration in that. In addition, we have taken on board the advice of the Council of State to include, for example, the child scheme, which is indeed part of the legal basis. The Council of State says: be careful not to regulate too many things with only lower, legal regulations. I'm just gonna put it homely for a little while. I understand that this is annoying for people who also want to call on, for example, the child scheme. I get it. I get it. I get it. I get it. At the same time, I think it is important now to ensure that the core of the matter, namely the assessment of as many people as possible, is carried out as quickly as possible. And that is being worked on very hard at the moment by, I believe, 1,000 people in the UHT, the Implementing Organization Recovery Supplements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u248	You saw me look a little hard, because I couldn't put it together so well in my head. That whole recalibrate operation! Of course, I've seen it very close. It was announced in the summer of last year, so almost a year ago. It's just a wash nose! Everything that has been collected, of which the Secretary of State says: this cannot be done, we need to look into it again and we cannot. In the meantime, these parents are waiting for the settlement. The parent panel has also said that it is taking too long. There's frustration. So what's the Prime Minister talking about when he's talking about a recalibrate? We're way past that. There's no recalibrate. Nothing has been implemented. There's way too many parents waiting to be dealt with. I'm afraid if we put this behind us, it's gonna be the same way, and we're gonna be back with frustrated parents in six months, who are even more angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u249	This is what we're going to keep pouring ready-made wine about. There's no point in making empty promises here. Yes, this recovery operation will take a long time for many people; not for everyone. For many people it will be ready soon at some point, but for a number of people it will take a long time. All efforts are aimed at doing people justice and helping them as quickly as possible, especially to get their lives back on track; to get their lives back on track. The reality is indeed that it will take a number of years to help all the victims. I say that here in the House of Representatives. I have already said it in the media once and I was called upon to do so. So I repeat that here too. Why is that? Because providing recovery in sometimes complex situations requires customization. Not only financially; it also has to do with all kinds of other issues that are going on. Sometimes a quick solution is not available. This also plays a role in the supplementary recovery policy. It takes time to ensure that there is a solid and also coherent legal basis. The Council of State has rightly pointed this out. So I understand the frustration. I also understand very well the letter from the parents and what was in Trouw last Saturday. I get that from A to Z. But here too: if we now decide to change all kinds of things again, it will only take longer. I am convinced that we should do this now and that we should organise it in such a way that we can end it. The point is that as many people as possible will be helped as soon as possible, but it will be a long time for a certain group, for the reasons I have just mentioned. We have to be really honest about that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u250	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u251	Because of the many interruptions I think I have answered the questions I have asked. They were also about the cabinet and about the decision-making that took place there. My suggestion would be to give the Secretary of State for Legal Protection the floor, if that were the case for the Chamber. Not for everyone, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u252	No, Mrs Westerveld has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u253	At the end of my speech, I asked the Prime Minister some very clear questions. I asked him, among other things, whether he agrees with me that he is ultimately responsible for our democratic rule of law and that good legal protection is part of that. I asked him for a response to the fact that his cabinets have known for years that it is not going well with youth services and with legal protection and that they have not done anything about it. They have not listened to inspection reports. I also asked him what he thinks of the judgments of judges who say that parents and vulnerable young people are sometimes not properly protected against the government. I thought it was a lot that judges said that. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, as the final manager of this cabinet and also of previous Cabinets, how he views it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u254	I am looking at Mrs Westerveld in such a way that she is wrong in state law, but it actually feels to me as she puts it, namely that I am indeed ultimately responsible. Not state law, but actually; that's what it feels like to me. I take full responsibility for that, too. Then about her questions. It is absolutely true that I have just outlined that we are dealing with a situation, for example in the area of youth care itself, but also in the whole legal framework, in which the matter is not working properly. Both in the youth care sector itself, things are not working well and in the entire legal basis. That is why we are engaged in a more fundamental review, partly on the basis of the Leiden report, but also on the basis of all kinds of other signals. What is not, of course, is that we have done nothing in recent years. Of course, that's not true. Successive Secretary of State and Ministers in successive Cabinets, from Kok through Balkenende to myself, have worked extremely hard to ensure that youth care and the entire legal framework function properly. What you have to establish at the moment is that there is too much selection for the lighter cases and that people who need heavier help do not have enough access to them now. The costs have increased enormously. With regard to the legal frameworks, we really need to look more fundamentally at how we organise it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u255	I am pleased that the Prime Minister acknowledges this, but I would also like to ask him what concrete consequences it will have. Then I'm also talking about how we deal with the Chamber. From the Chamber, from all opposition parties, especially on the left, it has been said for years that youth care is not doing well. A while ago, we had a very spicy debate about victims of violence in youth care and about better compensation for victims. We have recently had a debate in which we have tabled a number of amendments to improve complaints in youth care. And all such proposals are repeatedly dissuaded by members of your cabinet. This often has to do with the fact that it does not belong in the debate or that it will come back to it. This puts all those things that are needed to improve legal protection, to improve youth care, to ensure a better position of employees, on the long run. My final appeal to this minister would be to call on his ministers in his cabinet to think more closely with good proposals, with constructive proposals that continue to come out of the Chamber, to give priority to this issue, and to listen to what opposition parties have been saying about this for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u256	It is fundamental to my belief that governance is a joint obligation, a task that not only affects the coalition parties, but also requires all input from those who want it from the opposition. I cannot now judge exactly all the examples you mention of suggestions that would have been made in the past. I take that feeling seriously. Perception is minimal reality, and maybe it's even real reality. I cannot now assess whether this would not have happened in the past in previous Cabinets. I'll be absolutely focused on that. In any case, it is my belief that we should govern in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u257	We're talking about solutions here all the time. That is the most pressing topic of the moment. To be honest, I don't think anyone really gets a lot of confidence from the Prime Minister's speech. But there's something else, too. I mentioned this with the last question in my own speech. Behind that abstraction of the state are just people. The parallel path behind this should be that the people who have done this take responsibility in one way or another? Then it is not enough to say: we have already resigned once. No, there are people out there who have done this deliberately. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has already reflected on that. It is, of course, difficult to see what responsibility lies with the judges and how we should lay them down from our role. But it is also a matter of civil servants, of political leaders. I wonder how the Prime Minister sees that parallel trajectory, so that at some point the perpetrators will also be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u258	If Mr Van Haga is referring to the report on the periodic examination of the Parliamentary Committee on Childcare Allowance, I understand. We've had that discussion. But I think it's about the removals now, if I understand him correctly. I don't want to take away any interruptions, it's not a trick. But if he's referring to that, I really disagree. It is not for nothing that I have said at the beginning that I am standing here for the people who work in the youth services, that I stand before our judges in the Netherlands, that I am convinced that they are trying to work within sometimes extremely difficult legal frameworks. We're just trying to figure out a way to change that. They sometimes work within extremely complex arrangements in the youth care sector. We're trying to change that with each other. They are trying to make conscientious decisions. There is no evidence that judges or youth care workers have been consciously concerned with: oh, a family is a victim of the child care allowance, scandal, and that is why there is now a removal. I thought we agreed you couldn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u259	So far I have not been involved in this type of debate very often, because colleagues Omtzigt, Leijten and Azarkan do this excellently, but it turns out that it goes wrong time and time again. First it was the supplement affair and now there appears to be something worse, namely the placement of those children. I have indeed called that a criminal act of government. I wonder: if you allow this kind of thing as a government in your administration system, in the almighty state, then does anyone have to take responsibility for this mess? Then someone who willfully did this has to go to court because it was his choices - aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u260	The scandal of the childcare allowance has been the subject of much debate. There's not much discussion about that being horrible. The cabinet has resigned and there are all kinds of consequences. What Mr Van Haga is saying is something I distance myself from. He says the removals are such a scandal. You can't say that. I'm really convinced of that, and that's what I'm telling the parents, for whom I have the greatest respect that they are here. I am only saying it openly: if we now say that our judges and our people in youth care have deliberately said 'we are going to take children out of the house', when there is insufficient ground for that, then we do not agree on that point. That's what we're gonna look at. This is now done by the support teams and in the re-evaluations. That's how it works in the Netherlands. But if Mr Van Haga says here 'with that I condemn the people involved and put it at the same level as what happened in the Tax Office with the childcare allowance', then I really disagree with him very much. I'm just going to make that clear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u261	I think we are now getting to the heart of the problem and why the Prime Minister is missing the boat. I think that many of the people here do think that the surcharge scandal was a major criminal situation and that these removals are at least as bad. The stomachs of the people here turn around and you say... Oh, sorry, Chairman. And the Prime Minister says, "Well, no, this is a completely different situation. This isn't a scandal. This is just a procedural thing. We're gonna solve that and those parents shouldn't think this was the same as the supplement scandal." That is the essence of the problem. I think the Prime Minister has to admit that these removals are really disgusting. The state must find a solution to this and the perpetrators must pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u262	Mr President, you cannot put it that way. It is not for nothing that I quoted the President-in-Office of the Council for justice earlier today. He said that he strongly contradicts that there is a simple link between the debt to the Tax Office and the removal. He adds: the children's judge will not in principle just evict a child because of debts to the Tax Administration. What Van Haga is actually saying is that it did. If that were the case, then so should be the case. You can't say that here, because that evidence isn't here. By this you say to judges in the Netherlands and youth care workers, to all, that you place them at the same level as the people in the Tax Administration who are responsible for the supplement scandal. You really can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u263	Thank you. We are going to Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u264	It's unbelievable and downright criminal what happened. Can the Prime Minister at least have the decency to look the people sitting here in the public gallery in the eye and tell them what you say to us here, the House of Representatives? Namely: we have to do it carefully; we have to take it one step at a time; we have to follow all the procedures carefully; I am sorry. Because that's what you're saying to these parents. I'm sorry, but you're only gonna have to wait another year until you get your child back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u265	What I'm saying to the parents, and I'm looking directly at them, is that it's terrible what happened to them as a result of the child care allowance scandal. There's no discussion about that. It's terrible when your child is placed out of the house. And it is of the utmost importance that you can go anywhere to make sure that there is satisfaction, that you get the answers and that you know exactly what is going on. But it is not the case that in the Netherlands our judges and our youth care by definition unjustly evict children. You can't say that black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u266	I repeat that here and there, Mr President! We are also standing here together for the rule of law and for our professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u267	Thank you. Before we go to the Secretary of Law, I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u268	The next item is the debate on children's removal problems. I would like to appeal to the people in the public gallery. Your feelings are very understandable and it is also an emotional debate. However, I would ask you to really refrain from expressing disapproval or consent and to allow us to have the debate here in this Chamber. Thank you for your understanding. I will give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, because there were still a number of questions addressed to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u269	Yes, Mr. Chairman, there are still outstanding questions. The first question was: is the system of removals still in place and can you call it an expert who believes that the current system is legally satisfactory? Just one expert. The second question. When are we gonna get a response to the judge's letter of fire? That is Mr Naves' letter of 18 March, in which he says that the situation in juvenile justice has become worrying. There are no places available. The fact that children cannot be helped properly leads to serious damage. We would like an answer to that. Question three. Can you send a monthly update on progress? I would like those three questions answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u270	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u271	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I can answer that expert question in second place if Mr Omtzigt so wishes. But he'll be answered by Franc Weerwind in no time anyway, so he's in that set. The same applies to the letter. I know that there will be a reaction very quickly and there will be a discussion with the Justice Council. And the third question, if you'll just give me one more cue? What was that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u272	Can we be kept informed of progress on a monthly basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u273	That is also in the whole plan with which Franc Weerwind came to the Chamber. In any case, the support team will show on the website on a monthly basis what progress has been made. It's gonna happen anyway. For the further answer I refer to Weerwind. If that doesn't work out, I'll come back to it in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u274	Thank you. This ended the Prime Minister's first-term contribution. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u275	Madam President. Since 10 January 2022 I have been allowed to serve this office, and in this office I have this incredibly sensitive and socially complex subject, which is about people, about children, about parents, and I am very much looking into it. I have spoken to several parents, but also children, young adults and also somewhat older children, who have experienced an exit placement. The stories of those mothers, of those boys and girls of different ages, have taken hold of me tremendously. The suffering was obvious. The grief was palpable to me. Many tears have fallen and I was getting more and more respect for how much strength and courage they show. I admire that. I realize they've been through an unprecedented amount of trouble. Many still do. I spoke to a 20-year-old boy who took me in how he was placed out of the house, what that meant to him, now and in the past, and what consequences that still has. Then I say, standing here, I strongly believe that all children deserve a safe and loving environment to grow up. Let me be clear: that is preferably at home, with your own parents. That also answers one of the questions I have been asked. Yeah, removals are a last resort. I realize that the premium affair has caused serious problems in families. That's not up for discussion. I agree with the Prime Minister's words. In some cases, it started with financial problems. I've seen those cases. I've got the casuism in my head. Those cases have been explained to me. I heard the CDA-Second MP talk about security of existence. But from this financial problem there were rent delays, all kinds of problems at school could not feed the child. The result was an expatriation: sometimes forced, sometimes forced, sometimes "voluntarily," but I also place that in quotes. I have also spoken with the professionals, as you call them in this Chamber. I've spoken to the children's judges. I have spoken with the youth and youth workers on purpose. I have also spoken consciously to the counsellors, even though they are only on the verge of five to six weeks. I want to know what has happened and what is happening now, so that I can indicate as concretely as possible in your direction what we are doing. I have also seen how this professional, the youth protector, does indeed and properly think before he gives the advice towards the child judge for removal. Can I vouch for that at all times? I support the democratic rule of law with the Prime Minister. I support justice. I support the youth protectors. But I also know that there have undoubtedly been mistakes in human work. That's why I'm going so directly into the question of what that means and how you can fix an error. I'm listening to your room. Let me say first of all that together with the rulers sitting here on the left and right of me, I am going to make a maximum effort to see what is needed to give children a safe place to live and develop. That could be home. You have just heard me say: preferably at home. But it may also be that you strive to restore and phase out the contact between biological parent and child. I can't and I'm not going to promise you that that will lead to a hundred percent relocation. My starting point is and remains the importance of the child and also the importance of the parent. So I'm looking at both of these. I can't sit in that chair of the children's court. I don't have that competence and competence, so I won't. Let me be clear, too. You've heard my gut. You can also hear me say the following. Even though I was not in the Rutte III cabinet, I am in the Rutte IV cabinet and I agree with the excuses of the Rutte III cabinet. For there has been suffering, suffering that I and the Rutte IV cabinet cannot undo. We cannot in all cases reunite parents and children. The child's perspective will always be central. It is my priority to provide the best possible support, which also provides the answers and solutions these parents and children desire. The conversations with parents, but also with the children, teach me that they need answers about how and why of the removal. They also need financial, emotional and practical support to get their lives back on track. Together with this team, I have the task, which I do not go out of my way, and I take responsibility to take care of this. The victims are entitled to good and quick recovery. The support team and free legal aid will help specifically in the field of removals. I shall deal with that later, Madam President. You have also heard me talk about a committee that is going to do more research. Just now you have to learn from the past, to make fundamental changes in the future. Because yes, the system beeps and creaks on all sides. Then I join the words of the mp again. I have one point of attention towards the Chamber, Madam President. I would like to stress that youth protectors do important work. They represent the safety of children, but they have to make difficult and sometimes necessary decisions. Putting a child out of the house doesn't just happen. I have spoken to youth protectors who were really awake at night, who were working on that, who also showed me that the file should also be correct. I have spoken to children's judges, who have given me a strong message from recent developments: we are also looking very closely at this, we can send someone back, we can't do anything, we can also propose another measure, and that's how it's going to happen. I also see children's judges moving over. They're getting more and more process control. That's what I'm embracing. In the direction of the parents present here today, but also the parents at home and the parents I have spoken to, and also towards the children, I would like to say that we want to do everything we can to improve, clarify and clarify your situation. Whether children can indeed return home depends on the situation in the family. It is my intention that we always carefully seek that from us, together with parents and children and with experts. Mr. Chairman. I would like to build up my speech as follows. First of all, I should like to look at the general picture of the issue. Then I will go into the concrete support that parents and children receive. The inspection inquiry will be discussed and the desire to set up a committee. The Member of Parliament, Mr Omtzigt, rightly pointed out that he spoke to me on 11, 12 or 13 January. I'll deal with that. One question that has been put to me specifically is: Minister for Legal Protection, please make it clear and mention concrete points that you are going to do this year in order to improve the situation surrounding removals. I'm here as Secretary of Law. I'm grateful for that question. A perspective decision, a standard process guide for parents in removal, acceleration of the scenario and side-inflow, and, finally, better information for parents and children. I should like to clarify the points. It's a perspective decision. I think it's very far-reaching. I think it's important. I want it tested by a child justice in all cases. I'm gonna work that out with the sector. After the summer, I expect to have that concrete and hard. Anything for legal protection; let me put it first. I also want a standard trial counselor for parents at removals. I think it's important that they get that support. I'm gonna take care of that. I am working out the form for this, which is what the parents and children need most. That could be a mediator, a lawyer, or a behavioral expert. I'm open to that. I want to fill that out. I always do all my ideas together with just the duped parents, who also come to me to think and talk with. I am well aware that this also entails legislative changes and costs wherever possible. I will not close my eyes to that, but I will seek to do it adequately and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u276	Everything the Minister for Legal Protection has said is also contained in all the letters we have received. We have been able to see how you have been affected by all these files. However, I would appreciate it if you could take a specific look at the questions that have been raised. I can now hear you say that you are preparing a response and that you are coming forward with a response before the summer. I also saw the letter we received yesterday, which deals with the letter from the National Ombudsman on the right of complaint. In that too, you say that it is very bad and that you share his opinion. The right of complaint is incredibly important. But then the Minister says that he is in the process of drafting a reaction on the right of complaint, which has been known for years. The Minister will also examine the recommendations. My question to this Minister is therefore the following. I understand that you need to show how this dossier affects you, but I do appreciate it very much if the questions that have been asked are addressed in a specific way, and that it also sets out the time limit within which the Minister intends to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u277	In the direction of the Member of Parliament, Mr Arib, I reply as follows. I place on everything a concrete time and a concrete date. I do not intend to wait for all kinds of WODC investigations and such; that is not intended to bathe. If fundamental changes are needed, if all kinds of investigations are to be carried out and we do not come up with them until the end of the year, then that is too slow for me, I tell you in all honesty, while I seek eye contact with you. I specifically invited the whole chain and the decision-makers within that chain before the summer recess in June to make clear the urgency of this debate, but also the urgency of the people sitting in the gallery and of the people in the country. I do not need to make that clear to them, because it is well known. I ask: support me now in concrete improvements. I also believe that legal protection for this target group is inadequate. It needs to be reinforced. I was just in the process of mentioning various proposals. If I may, Mr President, I would like to make these proposals more specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u278	Perhaps that is good, because then you can also answer the questions asked. Is it right that a number of questions should be answered first, Mrs Arib?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u279	I would like to continue with this because I do not yet know what the Minister has said in concrete terms in response to my questions. I'm not going to go through all the letters, because we don't have that much time as MPs; the cabinet does have that time. I mention the last letter, the letter we received yesterday, on 11 May. The National Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman have clearly said that the complaints are not working. This minister says he shares that view. That is fine, but it is not clear to me what will happen next. It's being studied. In the last paragraph, the Minister replied: "I am preparing this response. I do this in coordination with the chain partners." They're all those vague, general... With all due respect, it's woolly language that doesn't help the parents. I can tell you that I once filed the Children's Ombudsman Bill. The reason I then filed that bill for a children's ombudsman was because this complaint scheme did not work. Parents and children who had complaints always came to the end. Now we are years away and it says: I am preparing a response. Tell me what you are going to do about the complaints system, because I find this really incredible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u280	A brief answer: a complaint is too important. I am learning from the regions in this country, for example from the region of West. They embrace these complaints, learn from them, and then see how they can deal with them in concrete terms. I am concerned with the practicality, not abstractness. That's what I'm looking for. I am looking to strengthen and strengthen the position of the parents and the children. That's how I want to deal with the complaints. I'm also asking the chain to do that. Give me some space and time to do that. I know you'll tell me if it takes too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u281	Perhaps it is an idea to talk about this with the young people and the parents who have submitted complaints. They have ideas about that. I have some ideas about that, too. But you're Secretary of Law. This means that you must be able to protect the children and the parents well, at least from the government. We have talked extensively about the rule of law and how the rule of law has operated in recent times, especially in the case of the surcharge scandal. When I hear this minister, I say: this minister has no idea. You are going to talk to people and they must tell you exactly what needs to be done. There is therefore no view from this minister on how children and parents are taken seriously when they go against institutions. That's the conclusion I'm drawing. That's too bad, despite the fact that you're so concerned about the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u282	I regret the words of Mrs Arib. She just heard that I'm not talking with woolly language, but that I'm going back to practice. But in the future, I will indicate how I deal with the complaints and how I fill them out. That will also be a piece of customization, and not just ordinary clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u283	Yes. Mr Azarkan also has a question. Oh, Mrs. Arib has another follow-up question. First Mrs Arib and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u284	I'd like to know what the minister means by "ordinary clothing"? Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u285	I used those words; I apologize if I humiliate you with them. That is absolutely not the intention. I would like to point out that each case requires individual customization. You need to look closely at how to solve a case. That's how I see a complaint. That's how I want to handle a complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u286	The minister's just getting started. So he hasn't had a chance to answer a lot of questions. Again, you're talking about your own questions. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u287	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that it is not always about the complaint or the case. I would also like the Minister for Legal Protection to zoom in and take us with him in what it means to be the Minister for Legal Protection. I asked the same question. In fact, we have found that it has been lacking in recent years. That's where it went wrong. People didn't have a de facto chance. The judges said that. The people have actually been greatly abandoned by the almighty government. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. That is also what I am asking for in the context of the massive sent letter of formal notice to Secretary of State De Vries. Objection handling is just a year, because there's understaffing. So the parents are again denied legal protection. They can't fall back on everything we agreed on in administrative law. How does the Minister for Legal Protection reflect on the fact that we are even doing wrong to repair the injustice that has been done? We're just not giving these people legal protection again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u288	You notice that often the parents and the children don't find their way and run against a wall and bureaucracy. Through the support team, through the trial counselor, they can tell their story and can arrange conditions of subsistence such as living, rent allowance, etc. The trial counselor is the spider in the web there. He's gonna go through with it. It brings parties together. He does the same when there is a need to have the re-evaluation of the removal. Parents really don't know how to do that. They can also go to the certified institutions, show a certified institution that the home situation has changed and that the out-of-home children can come back. Parents ask: let that happen. It is then found that the certified body does not cooperate in this regard. I'm talking about an imaginary case. For example, a court counselor can support this, but that can also be done by a lawyer who specialises in this. I'll make it available free of charge. It can stand next to the parents, just like the trial counselor, from an independent position. The aim is to guide the parents, also towards the judge, because there will be a court ruling or the situation has changed. It's active support. That's what I meant by customization. That's what I'm looking for. Every case is different. That is very specific how I want to actively, in terms of content, to give substance to legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u289	Thank you. Last question for Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u290	I'm not interested in individual cases. That's exactly what I'm trying to tell you here. I note that at least the Minister is not yet in a position to act on the basis of his responsibility as Minister for Legal Protection. So I'm not interested in these cases, because then we can keep doing this. It is about the bigger picture, that we have found that there is insufficient legal protection for groups of citizens. It was completed on the one hand by Rutte I, II and III. Fortunately, in the last year and a half, there has been a return to investment in asylum lawyers. What we also see is that we didn't do that right at a number of times when it comes to repairing that parents are the most fundamental thing they have, namely losing their children. I've spoken to judges. They say there's rarely a lawyer around. Rare. So I ask the Minister whether he reflects at the highest level and once has a vision of what that means if you live in a rule of law and organise legal protection with each other. Look at our Constitution, where it stands. I say that because I find that even in the handling of everything related to surcharges, the whole scandal, which parents once again do not give legal protection. How can we accept that this objection will not be dealt with within six weeks? How can we accept that you as a duped receive a letter: you must wait three years for your file? That's not legal protection, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u291	How do I reflect on it? With regard to that wall, I would point out that the support team is independent, precisely to actively support the parents, the doomed parents, the doomed children. I'm also pointing them back to the whole chain and all the certified institutions and the board of directors, to the right that they can demand, that they can ask a certified institution within two weeks: make sure, I want that file revised. All these action points, information transfer, communication, legal guidance and support, including towards the court, towards the judge, ensure that the government is once again the shield of that legal protection that you actively offer to those corrupted parents. That's not just in individual cases. That is what we do for and offer to all duped parents, but also to disabled children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u293	Thank you. I was in the process of mentioning a few concrete things that we are rolling out, including with regard to speeding up the scenario, that future child and family protection scenario. In the interest of improving the system, so fundamentally for children and parents, I've just decided... the testing grounds run. Fine. They come with results. I see a few quick wins in that. Together with Secretary of State Van Ooijen, I will talk to the chain for the summer, to say purely what we are going to actually implement, just do. Not just talk, but do. I will report to this Chamber on what we have done and what we have agreed on in concrete terms. After the summer, you'll have mine. Some of you have said that there is a problem with the youth protectors, the quantity and the quality. You can also expect me to do so, not only with a little bit of support, but also with a fact-finding exercise, to make it easier for them to work within the youth protection chain to strengthen human strength and change the caseload of the youth protectors, so that we can do even better quality work in the direction of parents and children. You have just heard me reply to Mr Azarkan. This concerns information and communication with parents and children: to clarify the rights that parents and children actually have when they are placed in their homes in front of them. The possibility of re-assessing a file is something you should know in front of when you are facing expatriation as a parent. I think that this should be much clearer and clearer. In addition, you can expect from me that fact-finding, that action plan and that fact-finding. We'll come up with that in the fall. I mentioned a few elements, Mr President. I would like to go on with the CBS, because many of you have asked for the figures in general. Look, numbers: measuring is knowing. I'm still from that generation. Figures are important to get an idea of the scale of the problem. I realize that a figure is a figure and that behind it are unique children, unique parents and unique families. They each have their own issue and all of this requires their own solutions. In that perspective, I think it is important that we also look at the figures. I specifically asked the CBS to give me a follow-up analysis. I want a picture as up-to-date as possible. I said take the year 2021. I said show me the number of removals. Okay, the tables give information. You know: data lead to information, but information must lead to knowledge and knowledge must lead to insight and overview. Do I now? No. I've got numbers. On 30 December 2021 there were 555 removals. I can't reach that. I just want to know, very emphatically, who we're talking about. I want to reach out to these people, and at the same time I want to do so within the possibilities that the law gives me. I discussed the GDPR extensively with the CBS, with the Dutch Data Protection Authority, with Aleid Wolfsen. I asked: help me, because I also want to make it clear to the parents how we can support them in practice. And I can't put those data files over each other. That's legally impossible. I also involved the GIs. It has recently become clear that there may be a technical solution. I do not need a legal basis first, because that takes me too long. So I'm totally focused on that technical solution. In two weeks, I can report to the Chamber how we can do it technically. The Prime Minister just indicated that. I am working closely with the Dutch Data Protection Authority to prevent me from making mistakes in this regard. I don't want to act unjustly. I do not want to link and bring together unfair data, because that only leads to a lot of mistrust. Last I was referred to an article in the magazine Flair. I don't read that magazine myself, but I was referred to that article. It was about a mother who had fled to Belgium with her two children. What if she and her kids are in those files? That mother specifically stated: I have no faith in that government anymore and I don't want any more contact with that government. What if I'm linking files and then actively approaching that mother? Then that government would go one step too far by linking up data that they didn't have to link up. That's what I cared about. That's why I'm looking. What can I do? How do I ensure that I do this in a correct and correct way? I want to know those numbers, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u294	Data cannot be transferred because it is not legally permitted. This is often done in the context of privacy law. The Chamber is really trying to remove the obstacles where they can. I hear the Minister say: we are going to see where that can be done. But I think we can remove these obstacles very quickly. We see this in poverty and debt policies, and that is what we see in other cases. This happens where efforts to help people are hampered by privacy laws. That legislation is not intended to hinder that. I spoke to someone from the Curaçao Parliament the other day. He said that we have parents who have been affected by the premium affair and who have fled. I have also assisted a parent who now lives in Turkey. He ran away from the state. So I'm wondering if the minister could be a little more specific. I think it can be very easy if we know where it is. Because we all know, including in Parliament, that privacy legislation is never meant to prevent people from being helped. So could the Minister be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u295	Oh, yeah. Technically it is possible and there is no obstacle. The CBS knows. At the CBS they have this data and there they know the persons themselves by name and by name. However, the CBS cannot give me that data. Then, with Aleid Wolfsen, I searched for: how? Then how am I gonna find out? In addition, I was told about a technique that I don't control. They say we can do it, we work this out and we test this one more time. In two or three weeks, I want to come to the Chamber with this and I want to show you how we can get that data. Then I can actively approach the people. Then I also have to look for a form where I don't brusque these people because they suddenly get a letter from the government, after which they start thinking: oh, we have to get into the defense, because we don't trust that government. So I'm gonna have to take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u296	You'll be here in two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u297	I promised, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u298	Thank you. Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u299	I very much appreciate the fact that the cabinet here is really thinking about how to take a number of steps which will at least allow the data to be exchanged more quickly. If I understand correctly, the Minister expects him to come to the Chamber within two to three weeks with a proposal for this. I did hear in a subtitle that it might take a few more months. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to act on this speed wherever possible. I'm just looking into what's going on with families who volunteered to participate in the removal. They're not in the number 555. I'd like to have them involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u300	If something isn't registered, I can't retrieve the data either. That's what I'm running into right now. If only we could get those data files. For me, this is really the most gordian knot I've ever seen. How is it that we make such impactful decisions... I stand here with the shame on my jaws. I can't retrieve it and trace it. Trust me: a lot of water has gone through the North Sea. I made it clear that I am not amused, but I can't, because I don't have it. That's my struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u301	Those who have known me a little longer know that I am always looking for a pragmatic solution. I also understand that we can't look back. But there are now so many parties involved in these families, such as the UHT and the municipal window. They're talking to the parents. Is it not possible somewhere to ask the question to those parents who do know that they have volunteered to participate in removal? Then that's how we're gonna link the data. Because I've already spoken to people today who told me, so it has to be possible in a different way. I understand the government must be reluctant. Our party is always very strongly of the opinion that we should be careful when exchanging data. Only, in this particular situation, with so many poignant cases, I would really like us to see if we really could not do it in any other way. I think it could be done by asking the parents themselves. They could work on that. I still say: I understand, I really do hate it, but I would like to look forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u302	I'm grateful you're looking forward. I want to learn from the past, but I really want to get to work effectively and efficiently. Hands off the sleeves. For example, the support team has 71 applications. This will reach 208 children. They are also involved in those 44 cases that we have worked out. Then you can see that 43 cases of this kind have placed children out of the house. Then you're talking about 76 kids placed out of the house. That's how I try to track, get my hands on and harden who we're talking about and how we can actually give that adequate help per person. Then I also notice that conversations take place within the support team through oral advertising from parents. That's what the trial counselors made clear to me. Parents say, for example, "He's also hurt." I was there myself when one of the duped parents in the east of the country indicated: I would like you to look at the lady too, because she has the same problem. It's not the fantastic road, but that's how we get an oil stain. It is clear that there is a support team and that we want to know how we can help. The certified institutions as well as the board are extra alert to ask whether they see a relationship with the child care allowance when it comes to children placed out of the home. They must then ask themselves: can we make this concrete, can we offer active help? This also applies to the municipal support points. Also through them I get parents who have been duped. So I am working from all sides to bring in facts, but also to work on them. This was a comprehensive answer, Madam President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u303	Following on from Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts and Mr Ceder. We had a technical briefing yesterday in which the working methods of the support teams in Rotterdam were presented to us. It also showed that it is very difficult to exchange information because of privacy. But here's what I'm noticing. When it comes to providing help, privacy and care are considered extremely important. Those are important to me, too. But look at what the IRS has done, up to and including keeping track of ethnicity. There was ethnic profile; it is actually pure racism what happened there. Data were also collected as bank accounts of parents and rent allowances. But privacy and care were not used as an argument. Can the Minister explain to me how that is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u304	I have just asked the Committee of Inquiry whether she sees a relationship. I have asked not only for a quantitative study, but also for a qualitative study of what dates have been used and whether there has been any mention of'maybe' I can say the big word in this Chamber 'institutional racism, exclusion'. I just want to know. That investigation is now being carried out by the two inspections. The inspections do so independently. I sent you the letter, or at least the inspections have been sent through me, which clearly shows how they are going to work and what the research assignment and subjects are. I wish to get an answer to that. That is, of course, shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u305	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u306	I have dealt with the CBS and the three specific points. Then: what has been done since it became known that there is a possible connection between the supplement affair and children who have been placed out of the house? When I look back at the process, an approach has been developed and tested in practice, namely in Almere and Rotterdam. You're aware of that. Subsequently, a national independent team started to assist the duped parents and children. With the VNG at the end of March, at the beginning of April, I explicitly sat at the table, but also with the certified institutions, to make it clear that ladies and gentlemen, now that we are speeding up, we are going to actively provide this support. I'll monitor this. I also said that there should be free legal aid, not just to talk, but to actually do so. Then the question has been asked: are there any issues in which the acceptable deadline has expired? Look, the support team gets applications from parents where the removals took place years ago. Whether or not the acceptable deadline has expired will not guide the solution. At the time, the acceptable deadline may have affected decisions on the perspective of education at home or elsewhere, and judges do not look at the directive, but make a child-by-child assessment. Even now, when it comes to finding answers and solutions, we need to look at what is actually possible per family and per child. I have already answered Mrs Van Beuker's question as to whether I can provide figures for 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u307	Before you go any further, there is another question from Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u308	Yes, Mr President, with regard to the acceptable time limit. I understand that it has to be looked at on a case-by-case basis. But of course the professional association has recently indicated that they are going to amend that directive, and that they believe that it might have been applied too strictly in practice, so that there was often an advice from the GI to say, sometimes even after six months, that there was such a detachment that it was no longer a question of relocation. With this review, and looking back at the period in which a lot of extracurricular parents have also had removal cases, is it not likely that that question can be confirmed? And more importantly, can the Minister look, with this amended directive, at whether there has been simply too much delay in these matters, not by the judge, but by the GIs, who have said: this child cannot stay at home anymore? Because that is actually acknowledged, that it may have happened in practice here and there, and perhaps too often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u309	Mr Ceder raises a valid question and makes a justified point. And I share that observation with him. Just when a parent volunteered to report to those counselors of the support team, one of the first questions is: what exactly happened, and how decisions were made? At the moment when these acceptable deadlines have played an important role in this, this is also happening, and it is being looked at, together with the parents: how do we deal with the child who has been placed out of the house? That's the process, and that's how I want to fill it out. It is said that the team has no perseverance. I asked them, too. I specifically asked them, do you need it? Because if they need it, and that's what the practice shows, then I also want to start the discussion and see how I can stretch out to give it to them. I have become clear in various examples given to me.I can really name them: no; we sit at the table; the housing corporation takes us seriously, creditors take us seriously; the municipality also strongly supports us. So that mother who's homeless, and who has three kids placed out of the house, we'll get her to have the story first. For she wants to be able to explain and tell her children; now, and perhaps later. And at the same time, we need to make sure she gets a place to live. And yes, we all know the housing market, we know the problem. But nevertheless, such a trial counselor gets to work hard. Everyone feels and sees this social urgency, given the suffering that has been done to this target group, and then there is a concrete crackdown. And then, if history shows that the element of acceptable terms has been applied strictly, rigidly, my words; not your words, but I feel that you have so pointed that out. You're gonna have to go back to court anyway. 'Cause you're gonna need that judgment if you're gonna change the verdict. I can't put that down. I have to do a whole system change for that. But the Prime Minister has already taken that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u310	Thank you. Yeah, any more Mr. Ceder?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister is going ahead now, but I have one more question with regard to the action plans he mentioned earlier. He talked about perspective decisions, that it is important that this is checked against the children's court. I agree, but the RSJ advice says: do so, but do so within three months. I have not yet heard the Minister say that he is also taking that advice on those three months. I would like to know whether this is going to happen, because it is very important with regard to the legal protection of parents, or whether the cabinet is making a different assessment. I would also like to include this in the question of whether I would like a ruling from the Chamber on this: shouldn't those three months really just be laid down by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u312	I'm gonna park your question. I don't have him in mind right now, but I'll get back to you in a moment, later in my speech. I've been asked for a quarterly progress report. I forgot one element about the CBS figures. Now we get them once a year. I don't think that's enough. I want them twice a year, to keep my finger on the pulse of what is happening and how it is developing. I will also explicitly share this with your Chamber in the progress reports. I just indicated that all the work of the support team is being monitored. These are also published on a monthly website. I want to work as transparently as possible. On the basis of these data, I can further develop this approach and, if necessary, take additional measures. I still intend to inform you of this half-yearly. I hear Mr Ceder's request. If the Chamber wishes, I'd be happy to increase that to three months, so I'll inform you quarterly. Then there's the next question. Why don't you broaden the solutions for supplemental parents, for many more children? Let me be clear: where I can make improvements to the system or to the lessons, as we are getting them now, structuralally or can see that they are really structuralally haunted, I will do so in concrete terms. A number of cases are already being taken up, such as the counseling of parents and the strengthening of the legal status of custody children, to name but a few. In the second half of 2022, an Advisory Commission will issue an opinion on strengthening the legal status and protection of parents and children in the field of youth protection. I will look closely at that and see how I can implement it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u313	That's very nice, but my point was: if the water is up to here because of the surcharges and you're afraid... Everything goes wrong; you can't pay your rent. That was the beginning of your speech. That's what solutions are for. You said, quite rightly, that we should first ensure that, for example, a homeless lady gets a home, and so on, so that the security of life is regulated. You told me. But there are a lot of other reasons why people can't stand up to their lips. Of course, we know these people too. My question was specific: if we know these people, why not start with the same approach? That doesn't seem like a big extension of... It is a big extension of the task, but it doesn't seem much more complicated than what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u314	Prevention is better than cure. If you let a problem grow, it can only get bigger. I've talked to parents with gambling addiction, drug addiction, etc. I ask behavioral scientists: how can we solve this sustainably? I just assumed the adage you want the kids to grow up with the biological parents. Then you must also provide a safe environment, in which a child can develop further. Then you have to solve these kinds of problems structurally, sustainably. I will certainly do so at the moment when I am able to land it in a structural way for all parents in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u315	I understand that, and I welcome the answer, but in 40% of the cases, according to the Children's Protection Board in 2016, security of existence is the beginning of all misery. I believe it is indeed addiction in 20%. Sometimes it's psychological problems, and sometimes it's something else. But it's really about security of existence that matters to me. If we know that this is the problem and if then, quite rightly, it is calculated what the cost of a child's removal is, i.e. the social suffering, but also the finances, and so we know how high those costs are, then it seems to me that one and one is two. We do not have to make all these costs if we lower the water level, which is now up to here, a little bit. I understand that prevention is better than cure, but if you are still looking for people who are victims of the Surgery affair, then you will surely find other people whose security of existence is the beginning of the problem. I'd say take the same approach for those people. That sounds simple to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u316	At the heart of the matter, I want to take the same approach; at the core I want to do so. Give me the opportunity to see how I can put that structuralally into effect. Then there's the question of what happened to the parents' detailed plan. The Attic Room has written a proposal. In it is the idea to set up provincial houses in which thorough research can take place into the situation of children and parents before an ots or removal is pronounced. There have been conversations with my ministry. That we need to get a follow-up. We're working on the future scenarios of child and family protection. I want to constantly invite these parents, but also to give them the opportunity to think about how we can give them substance. In those future scenarios, I want to see how I can land it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u317	Very briefly. I don't really understand what the Minister is saying. He says they can think along. But they've already thought along, I understand, because there's a very thought-out plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u318	The plan is there, but it's constantly looking at how to develop it, how to land it. Plans I can carry out, I pick them up right away and take them with me in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u319	It must be me, but I don't get it. There is a concrete plan that has been made by people who have to deal with it themselves. That was made by people from that practice that I hear you talking about glowfully. That's great! Hold that! But they're from that practice. So who would know better than them? We find here that we have been on the road for seven months. The cabinet feels differently, but at least the Chamber is extremely dissatisfied with how this is going. And the trust in the parents is getting worse every day. Isn't it wise not to take that plan with you, to look at it and perhaps implement it, but just to take it seriously? Maybe that's an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u320	I take the plan seriously, but that means that I am also responsible for a piece of public interest once again, that I need to see if I can work with it. And that's what I'm talking about. If I turn anything down, on a part, I'll discuss it with those parents, too. I'll show you, and then I'll explain why. Just give me some room to judge that plan well on its merits and see if I can land it. You have heard me say that I constantly involve the disabled children and parents in the conversations and development. I'm not gonna get rid of them. I have already mentioned the support of parents and children. Let's not do that again, or I'm gonna repeat myself. Then it's about the support team. I'm also looking at the Chamber to see if I need to go deeper into the support team. Because in fact I have already dealt with the effectiveness and the perseverance. It has also been said before: the support team is active nationwide for a few weeks. Depressed parents stress that it is a good thing that they have a listening ear, that they have a mediator who relieves them of a lot of bureaucracy and who also cares...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u321	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u322	I have a case in my head of a lady who lost 15 to 20 hours of contact with all kinds of agencies. Then suddenly a trial counselor came in and took over, so she was relieved and could do whatever she wanted, so that she could make sure that her children, who threatened to be placed out of the house, didn't have to go through that. And then that security of existence situation was also settled, I say just as well, so that the threat of removal disappeared from the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u323	Perhaps the Minister could comment on the element of awareness of the support team. Of course, there are also processes of re-evaluation, separate from the support team. Do we have them on camera now, or do we have to pick them up somewhere else? Several municipalities are currently very active to work on this re-evaluation. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u324	Not only municipalities, but also the GI, also the council and also the support team themselves realize that. When I speak to youth protectors, they all indicate, dedicated when they are, that they prefer to see a child placed back with the parent. When I talk to children's judges, I hear the exact same thing. That's the signal. I will also support that basic attitude. What matters is that the support team now also gets much more national awareness, that it is seen and heard. That's what I'm committed to. I draw attention to the existence of the institutions. The municipalities point to existence. I just mentioned the numbers. We now see that the numbers are increasing. I can tell we're taking steps. I'm not gonna cheer yet. Between hosanna and the crucifixion were only three days, so I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u325	I hear the Minister mention a case, in which a lady was so pleased with the support team, because she was therefore taken out of her hands in practical matters. I also hear the Minister say that at the moment when the security of existence was also settled, the threat of the child's removal was dropped. In my mind, then, I make a link between the security of existence, the financial malaise within a family and the threat of relocation. That also raises the question of what are the criteria for relocation. I hope that I am in the right place with this Minister with this question. We are now dealing with a group of parents, so we assume for a moment, who have suffered from this in large numbers because of their security of existence because of everything they have experienced in the supplement scandal. Now we all want to put these children back together as soon as possible. Many parents are in a not much better situation than they were when their child was taken from home, because the handling is not smooth or because they are still waiting for their file. I would also like to mention all known problems. It would, I think, be terrible to finally hear that we have the data ready, that we have managed to circumvent the GDPR, but that the children cannot go back, because their parents are still in a situation according to the current directives that would justify removal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u326	There is only one key criterion, which is constantly considered: can children grow up safely in a safe environment and develop further? I did touch those elements. We all know that if there are financial problems, this can lead to great tensions in a family. That can be expressed in different ways. Mothers told me: "We dare not open the letters anymore, such as letters about rent delays. It just got worse. We sought other refreshments, alcohol or whatever, because we could not cope with the problems." That is the practice that I am told on the basis of a number of concrete examples. Then I see that such a trial counselor is going to look at: what happens in that family? Are there behavioral problems, for example with one of the children, which require some support to create peace in the family? Is this about finance? Is it merely looking at how municipal support funds can play a role in this? You're gonna create that base that will create peace in the family and make the child grow up well. You are asking me for one criterion. I mentioned the main criterion and all the derived criteria play a role in this. The process guide can play a good role as a spider in the web. At least that is the practice at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u327	The Minister uses the word "safe" and that is a widely interpretable concept. I am therefore once again curious as to how we are going to avoid the following. I am talking about parents who are known to be victims of this scandal, whose situation is not yet optimal. This is also a broad-based concept of "sustainable" and of whom we also know that their children have been placed out of the house, at least when this happened in the family. This does not automatically mean that they cannot take care of their children. Are there at the front of this term I also heard the Minister use criteria and frameworks to reassure parents, so that they can at least have the hope that they will have their children back, even if their case has not yet been completed within the recovery?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u328	Mrs Simons asks me how a youth protector works and how she arrives at an opinion. Which boxes does he use? That's how I interpret your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u329	If I may add, in the context of these specific cases within the surcharges. I can imagine that the relocation of children who have been placed out of the house may be subject to other criteria, which may be reasonably acceptable as a result of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Or do we stick to the same criteria that led to their removal? Then we're all gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u330	Let me point out, Madam President, that I do not intend to work with two or three different frameworks, because we would then make a distinction. We should work with one framework, and that is what I expect from youth protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u331	Finally, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u332	We came here because a distinction has been made. That's how we ended up in this cesspool: unlawful and unjust. I still do not have an answer to the question: can parents reasonably rely on their children's return if all the normally applicable criteria still apply to them? That is still the daily reality for some parents: with the curtains closed and still fearful of the envelopes that come in. We are now debating the most favourable scenario, namely that these children will return home as soon as possible, but for many parents their situation has still not improved. Can they count on their children to return home or are they still being punished for a situation that they themselves can do so little about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u333	Imagine if the children could return to a safe environment. You're describing a situation I know from the city where I was allowed to work, Almere. Almere was just mentioned as an example by the Dutch MP of the Party for Animals. You're gonna work on the base, on the rest, so that a child can return safely. You have to weigh that carefully, and so will the judge and the youth protector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u334	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What can parents expect, when can they contact their children again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u336	You're out of interruption, Mr. Azarkan. I fell for it once. Oh, you'll come to me. Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u337	I appeal to all the parents who are watching today and who are struggling with this issue: use that support team. They're independent, they're not civil servants or anything like that. No, they are independent and they can support you in solving the issue. I also discussed the re-evaluation of the removals. Then the acceleration of the support team and the broadening to other parents. I think that question has been answered. I'm gonna take a look at the CDA on this one. I am asked for deadlines: can I say when things will be put in order and at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u338	One final question for Mrs Arib, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u339	About the support teams. That question was also asked to the Prime Minister and he referred to the Minister for Legal Protection. There are several experiences, but I assume those support teams can play an important linking role in supporting parents. I have heard from parents who have experience of this, that they are sometimes helped to put things in order, but also that a listening ear is given. But more powers don't have those support teams. It would be incredibly helpful if these support teams were given more powers, so that if, for example, they come to the conclusion that a removal is not justified, they may also have a certain power of perseverance in order to raise this issue with the institutions concerned. Last sentence. I asked one of the parents: what would you prefer me to ask the Minister during the debate? She said, "I want to see my child." I wholeheartedly support the support teams, but I think that's what it's about in the end, that the band is being restored or that children can sleep at home again. I'd like to give that to you. I wonder if the Minister is prepared to give the support teams perseverance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u340	Mrs Arib says: if a child cannot be placed back, how do you restore contact with the biological parent? We first determined what the greatest wish is. In it, the support team sounds bathinating, but that's not how it's meant to be to the process counselors, a means: support. At the moment when I'm going to beg all kinds of perseverance in my words to the support team, I'm going to turn the system upside down. I have the trias politician, the separation of powers. An opinion is given by a youth protector and the judge decides. I'm supposed to distance myself from that. At the same time, I have also spoken explicitly with the counsellors. I say in the direction of Mrs Arib that I will do the same in the direction of the parents who have been assisted by trial counselors. I'd like to give you my word on that. I have just said that the moment I see that a trial counselor is not effective, that must then be wider throughout the country, I will indeed look for a better way to equip them. But I'm not avoiding it and I'm going to see if I should give them stronger powers. I will discuss this with all the institutions. I hope that is a satisfactory answer to Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u341	I still have a question about the deadlines. What's the Minister thinking now? I believe in the good intentions and that the support team may make a difference for some people, but I also see a lack of speed and effort. I missed that in the Prime Minister's story, by the way. If we were to follow what the Minister has just explained here, when does the Minister expect that all ongoing removals have been re-evaluated and that there is a plan of action for all these children with a view to restoring contact or a vision of reunification?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u342	550 children placed out of their homes are obliged to do so. At the moment I'm going to put deadlines on that, I'm going to overplay my hand, because every child needs to be looked at again. That must be done sharply and the judge must also take a stand on it. I would very much like to call you a term in response, but I cannot. I wish I could, but I can't. I can't sit on the judge's chair either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u343	That you cannot sit on the judge's seat, I understand, but children could be placed out of the house very soon. People could see their whole lives turned upside down in the short term. And now the Minister cannot give any indication of the time limit that we can give to the parents here in the gallery or to the parents listening. We cannot say to them: this is what we have in mind; this is the period within which all the ongoing removals and the affairs of all the 1,555 children have been re-evaluated; this is the plan. I have indicated it before, but I really think that we should set a deadline for this. That it's not easy, I understand, but that's not the misery these people are in either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u344	One of the important points I want to measure and map is how many relocations are taking place. I am now looking into this with the CBS and other institutions, because I just want to know. You want to know that, but I want to know that myself. I'm getting those monthly reports from the support team. I have just promised that I will be able to provide you with information on how it works within three months or within six months. I want to gain that practical experience and I want to look at it in every case. And how many relocations are we talking about? Now I have put 555 out of my house, and you have heard me say that this number can be reduced, but also more. Expatriation placements still take place in the Netherlands when the safety of the child is at stake. Follow that, know that and share it with you: I can promise you that. That's what I want to send in. I can't mention time limits. That's case-dependent. I'm sorry to talk about parents and children like that, but I have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. The assessment shall not be carried out by the body that deployed the removal site. Will the Minister ensure independent external review? The powers of youth protection are all laid down by law. And youth protectors also want those children to move back home and, if they can't, that parents can play a meaningful role in their child's life. I just said that the support team has a neutral role, but that support team can also involve external experts. And this rigour and whether it is effective: I follow that. I just promised you that. I think I have given sufficient attention to the power of perseverance, Madam President. I have also actually responded to the request made by Mr Peters to come forward with a plan for recovery and re-evaluation before 1 July. I've indicated how I'm on the other side of that. I would like to, but I have also indicated to you what the possibilities and the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u345	Thank you. A question from Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u346	With regard to the support team. I understand that parents have concerns about the independence of that team. One also wonders what its composition is. Mr Omtzigt wanted to present an alternative with a number of parties, precisely because it is the question whether the support team that has now been created by the cabinet can actually do justice to parents, listen to them, understand them. I can actually place those concerns, because once you've had a punch or a punch from the government, it's hard to regain that confidence. That's why I'm asking. Can you indicate anything, including the parents who are watching, about the composition of that support team? How did that happen? Can you say something about its independence towards the cabinet, but perhaps also about an appropriate distance from the GIs? That's what's bothering me. It seems important to me that we can have real confidence in that. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u347	Thank you for this question, Madam President, to Mr Ceder. It is precisely this neutrality, the independence of that support team and those counsellors of the process that is important. Many of the process counsellors are specialists, professionals, professional women and craftsmen. They know the spectrum, they know the way. They have to be able to think wide. After all, they also need to build a large network to act quickly for the parent, the child, the family. Let's put that first. The possibility they have is to use more human hours than a youth protector has, to really put that family, that child, that parent. Some of them do indeed have a working history in the youth protection chain. I won't deny that. But they're separate from the youth protection chain, apart from the GI, they're not members of the board either. They're really an independent club standing next to the parent. To help the parent, not only to get the story back and be in charge, but also to look: how can I represent your interests? How can I make sure you actually get help and support? Is that the direction in my response you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u348	Thank you for making that clear. I don't doubt those people's expertise. I think that humanly speaking, from a parent's perspective, it can be difficult to give that trust. I wonder to what extent the cabinet takes into account or can keep in mind that there is still a world to be won if these parents feel that that support team is there for them too. What can we do, what do we do at a time when this is going to be more difficult than we have in theory come up with? The last thing I would like to do is to have another debate in a few months, because it turns out that there has been insufficient thought about how that match is going. Is there anything else you can tell me about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u349	I keep my finger on the wrist here to guarantee the independence of that team, but also to see what the reactions are in the country. This was one of the concrete practical examples that came up recently. We had a website of the support teams connected to the government, to the government. We immediately disconnected that website from its naming, so that they really are a separate entity. In word, in writing and in behavior, we make sure that the support team has its position with a trial counselor in there. I like to talk about people. This is how we try to implement it. It's learning, learning, learning from practice. What you indicate is: look back often, look back quarterly, six months back whether that team really has that position and whether it has a good range in the country and can reach the people. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u350	There is another question from Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u351	I am pleased that Mr Ceder specifically mentioned the support team and, above all, its independence. I think it is very important that the Minister was able to clarify that just now. I'd still like to continue on that perseverance force. I know you've already answered that. I believe that the Prime Minister has already replied to this in his first term. In addition to what the Prime Minister said, you said that you understood from the support team that they do not need that perseverance force. They have good contacts with the municipalities, they have good contacts with the organizations, so that runs. You say you'd like to keep your finger on the wrist. I would be particularly sorry if it were to go somewhere in the country because a municipality or a GI is less cooperative. I would be very sorry if we looked back and saw that we have lost precious time again. How does the cabinet view this, I ask the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u352	In the national roll-out of the support team, I discussed this with the VNG. We did that together. We've also seen the urgency. You've got the municipal support points and you've got the support team. I rely on the practical reactions I hear from the trial counselors and from the municipalities. They indicate it's working and it's running. You can expect me to keep my finger on the wrist there. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a comment that I would like to make. It was about the registry rights. I can indeed provide support with a lawyer at the drop-out house, with legal assistance, but they still have to pay the registry fees. I have heard that point very emphatically. I want to make a commitment that I will look for a solution to this. Actually, I'd like to come up with that before the summer recess. I think it's too important. I think that we should accept that for them, so that they can do justice. After all, it is a question of legal protection. Then free legal aid, Madam President. I think I have already said the necessary things. I've taken care of the registry costs. Again, registry costs are charged by courts and normally do not come under subsidised legal aid. Should there be any procedures or procedural steps for which parents are still liable, I am really going to see whether and how I can take over the registry fees and charges. Then there is the question: why isn't it arranged for families to have lawyers? Parents are entitled to subsidised legal aid. I also think that the system can and should be improved. I agree with your Chamber that parents should be well represented at a hearing about a removal. I am going to work out how we can better organise this process representation in any form. You also heard in my short-term list that I'm going to pick that up. I'm just repeating it. Then the committee. In any case, independent inspections are in the process of carrying out an investigation, but in my letter to your Chamber I have also indicated that I would like to discuss with you the desire to have an independent committee, as I call it, carry out an investigation. I take the view that this should be additional to the inspection investigation, the support team and the Committee on Actual Damage. I'd like to hear your opinion on that. I can imagine that it would then have to be an independent committee with the task of investigating the link between the premium affair and the removals. So what would be the work of that committee? I think it's a sequence of events that have had to deal with the victims. It will therefore have to look into how the problems have been caused or strengthened each other. It is always up to a committee itself to determine the precise research question and the methodology. By working with your Chamber on how we can shape that committee, I want to contribute to the recognition of the suffering and restoration of trust. So I'm also looking... I'm looking at the MP Omtzigt. He did indeed appeal to me in January 2022. He also referred me to earlier letters he gave to my ministers: we must take this up. I filled that out with the inspections back then. You have also received a technical briefing of the inspections. I understood your Chamber correctly and understood that you said that an independent committee should be set up. So I'd like to work with you to see how we can give hands and feet to that. I'd like to hear the reaction of the Chamber. If I understand correctly, this will be dealt with later in the seven-point plan. Let me say something about the future scenario. A number of members have raised critical questions about the operation of youth protection in a broader sense. The urgency of structural improvement has been mentioned. I can be clear: I share that urgency. The system must and can be improved. Children and parents are entitled to that. Not only those affected by the supplementing affair, but all children and parents affected by youth protection. I wink in your direction. Together with the Secretary of State, VNG and all organisations and professionals in the implementation, we are now working on structural reforms and simplifications of the youth protection chain. We are doing this through the instrument of future child and family protection scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u353	Perhaps you could conclude this part first, and then I will give the floor to Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u354	My predecessor and the then Secretary of State of the United States of America informed you about this. The test grounds are well known to you. We're gonna put some strength into that. I see the urgency. I would remind you that we are talking about many complex issues of impact in such a complex system as this. I would like to take care to ensure that this is done. Of course, Leiden University's factsheet plays an important role in the recommendations. I will therefore take over most of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u355	Again, I welcome the Minister's reply. He says he heard. It needs to be better, and it needs to be faster. But I also heard this answer four years ago from Mr. Dekker, your predecessor in office. At first, he said, "I don't see a problem." In the next debate he said: there is indeed a problem. Then he said, "I see it and I take it." Then he said: I see it, I take it and it also works; there is no going back. The last time I spoke to him, I said, "We're not really getting along." I have just received the criticism from Mrs Westerveld in my first term: there Mr Peters with his good behavior is powerless, for he has been shouting the same thing for four years and it is not happening. Now I'm actually hearing you say more or less the same thing as your predecessor. I do not want to see her coming forward in Mrs Westerveld's next debate: look, there he is again saying the same thing. How can you reassure me that, firstly, really meaningful steps are being taken here and, secondly, in the elaboration of the plans that are now undoubtedly there, the importance of institutions or of structures simply cannot play a role and that we are really going to see how this can be done better?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u356	A short answer: by doing it and by showing it to you at the end of the year. I didn't lead you on right now. I can then show it in concrete terms, also in the direction of Mrs Westerveld. I'm actively working on this file. The question has also been asked to me: what are you doing with the RSJ advice? I would also like to record this review within three months and submit it to you. So I will take these recommendations in concrete terms and I will show you that. Mr President, I will make some speed, because I have a lot of points. I'll get on the burn notice. I have a lot of contacts and discussions with Mr Naves on how justice looks at it and how it runs against incomplete cases when a judgment is given. That's worrying, very worrying. The Secretary of State of VWS and I will therefore discuss this letter with him and the Council for the purposes of the case-law. They've sounded the alarm clock. They point to the deficits in youth aid. They say it's about vulnerable children. The conversation has already taken place at official level, but I also want to finish it well at administrative level and make it negotiable, and then I will come to your Chamber. I want to have that conversation before the summer recess. I'm getting busy. Madam President. The next thing I'm gonna care about is this. I am very concerned about the comments made on a vision of the complaint procedure. A complaint lodged can also be seen as a concrete improvement proposal. Of course I know what the route is. First, an informal conversation takes place to see if you can resolve that complaint. If that's not the case, you're formally handling a complaint. If the complainant is not satisfied, he can always go to the National Ombudsman. That is the reality. But if there is serious ethical or professional criticism towards an individual registered youth professional, then you can go to the Stichting Kwaliteitsregister Jeugd, to the college These are very long ways.. or to the College van Beroep... I can talk about how you handle that. You are asking me for a vision of how you can make sure that parents can find the way and that that is sharper, more concrete and clearer. I am looking at Mrs Arib, of course, through you, Mr President, but with my eyes. I also say to you how important I think it is that these complaints should land well and that something should actually happen to them. I'm gonna look into that. I shall come back to that in your direction. Can you name one expert who thinks the system of removals is satisfactory? No, I can't. I share the concerns of the experts. I share the concerns of the Chamber. I also see that the system on parts needs to be improved. I am referring in particular to legal protection. I am following the debate on whether the Dutch system complies with the Treaty obligations. I therefore think it is more than important that I follow up the recommendations made by Bruning. I will take into account the case law of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u357	Thanks for the exorcism after four o'clock. The cabinet, which claims not to be able to name any expert who considers that the system of removals is legally satisfactory, is contrary to all the answers given earlier, which stated that there is a right to a fair trial and that the process has gone well. Those parents know it didn't go well. It's something else to say that people have done something consciously, I say right away. And it's a little different to say that all the removals went wrong, because there are really situations where children are rightly placed out of the house, don't get me wrong. But if the government here admits that it cannot find any expert, once again, any expert, who believes that the current system is in place and that we need to check whether we are complying with our treaty obligations, then there are consequences, I ask the government, namely that we should speed up the review of the removals that have already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u358	My answer to that is no, no. That remains my answer. I have indicated to you that I have not found an expert, but I will continue to involve experts in the process of making fundamental changes. I'm not gonna close my eyes to that. Are the removals not legally correct? I do not think you can say that in a general sense. You need to look at that from case to case. That is exactly what a support team and all the institutions mentioned are doing. I therefore do not share Mr Omtzig's conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u359	I'm losing it, and I mean it sincerely. One cannot say that there is no expert who is currently behind the current system of removals and that there is a need for a major remodeling that announces this government and does not draw any conclusions about the number of ongoing removals. That's not intellectually possible with me. I can't do that. I have the next question to the government. If the government admits that it is so wrong, why do these support teams not at least have the opportunity to submit a request to the court under Article 1:265 of the Civil Code, on the basis of new information? For example, this new information may be that the Minister has said that he does not know any expert who thinks it works. It may also be that the Secretary of State for Finance admits that these people have been recognised as victims of the surcharge scandal, but that this has not been included in the original decision. But the consequence is simply that we need to review the current cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u360	I feel like we're entering a vicious circle of discussion. I understand Mr Omtzigt's reasoning, but I do not agree with it in principle. I have admitted that we have seen that the system on parts is not working properly. I didn't sit still, but I just asked experts to help me by looking critically at me and telling me how to apply improvements. That is precisely what I want to meet all the demands you have just made. I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u361	Mr Omtzigt's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u362	This is painful, Mr. Chairman, that it's the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u363	Fortunately, we still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u364	And two more Secretary of State I can't ask any more questions to. Mr President, here we go to the heart of the matter. I'd rather we circle around for a while than those parents who've been spinning a circle for years. Because the circle you're in is that you're right to say... Sorry, the minister rightly says: "The system doesn't work. I don't have an expert who thinks it meets the rule of law, and that's different than making a mistake once. It's not legally satisfactory and we're gonna fix it." Well, that's a win, especially if you're gonna run Bruning and the RSJ. We have also proposed this as five parties here, so I welcome that. But that has implications for the decisions that have been taken so far, and I am against the same wall as I have been against in the Tax Administration with Mr Leijten, Mr Azarkan and others. For months it was said, for many years: all these recoveries were lawful. I dispute that these decisions have been taken on the right legal basis. I may not ask the government to reply now, but in the second term and to admit that these decisions have not been taken on the right legal grounds, because then we have an opening here. I'm not asking for a solution tomorrow, I swear. Then we have an opening here to understand where it went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u365	Let me embrace Mr Omtzigt's proposal and take it to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u366	I would ask the Minister to speed up a little, because there are also two colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u367	Sorry about that, Mr. Chairman. Let me see if I have any other points. I think I have answered all the questions. I like to hear it from the Chamber when I've forgotten something. Yeah, one more point. What do municipalities do if not children, but parents are the problem? Can't the parent be placed out of the house? It came from the Christian Union, that question. In situations of domestic violence, child abuse, a restraining order can also remove the parent from the home. I know Mr Ceder's comment from the committee debate on personal and family law. He also asked for attention for the temporary removal of the parent instead of the child. I contacted the Dutch Youth Institute in response to that remark. They are currently reviewing the removal directive and taking this point with them. I would ask you to wait for this in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u368	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitment to find a solution so that parents will really receive free legal aid. So I'm happy about that. I'd like to ask him if we shouldn't do that for all the parents who have to deal with children's removal. There's a lot more kids. It is estimated that every year some 27,000 children who do not live with their parents have been placed out of their homes. Those are, of course, very often similar stories to those of the supplement parents. Should we not then ensure that all parents receive legal aid free of charge?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u370	I understand Mrs Westerveld's question. I am thinking of legal certainty and equality of law. I understand what you're saying. I want to check it out. I want to map it and then give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u371	I have a second question for the Minister. In my first term, I said that almost two years ago I tabled a motion together with Mr Wörsdörfer in which we said: make a very concrete plan to prevent removals, because we are not doing well in the Netherlands; make concrete targets, targets. An expert meeting was organised one and a half after that. I would very much like to know that it was also a question in my first term, namely whether the Minister also thinks that this motion was simply not carried out. I would very much like that to be done now, so that we really reduce the number of children placed out of the house in the Netherlands. Because it causes damage to parents and children. It's tearing families apart. We really need to do this much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u372	I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld's last remark. I also think that when retirement takes place, parents should also have an insight into the file, why and how, if not out of parental authority. It has to be clear. It has to be transparent. You're talking about an expert meeting. The historical knowledge lacks me to crawl back to one and a half or two years ago, to what says. You're talking about an expert meeting. You have already heard me say during this whole debate that I am talking to this Chamber and remain on this dossier, because I think it is important that these parents also see in practice that we now stand as a Second Chamber, as a State General and as a cabinet to fundamentally implement these changes and improve them, where possible and necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u373	I asked in my first term whether the Minister would like to respond to the desire for a "modest government." Mr Van der Staaij referred to Adri van Montfoort, who said: we have all become very risk-avoidable and we have raised each other in the idea that we want to avoid any risk up to the decimal point, which means that we intervene a lot. Mrs Van der Plas van BoerBurgerBeweging indicated that the Chamber and the media might also have to look at themselves. We shouldn't jump on every incident like a buck and intervene. Mr Omtzigt said: wait a minute, we are even able to hold a guardian liable if something goes wrong. And he asked, "Doesn't all this get in the way that we're gonna move on and on?" My position in the first term was that it is indeed so. I would like the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u374	I also heard Mr Peters say that doing nothing is also an option. That's his motto. That's also something you should look at every family, every child. That's attitude, that's behavior. I will certainly talk to all the institutions about that option being on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u375	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the Minister for Legal Protection's contribution. I now ask the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport to answer the questions he has been asked. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to start with all the families and children who are listening to this and who have been involved. They have, of course, had a thump from the government in the supplement scandal. And if there has been any mention of an out-of-home child, then there is also a tragedy. Parents and children belong together. At the same time, I am also aware that there are situations where the safety or development of the child is at stake. In recent times, I have listened a lot to stories from young people and stories from professionals who work hard every day to help young people. And I can only support anyone who has made a link here in Parliament, but also wider, with the very necessary and urgent reforms in youth care. These reforms are also necessary and urgent. Your Chamber will therefore receive a progress letter very soon, or in fact a outline letter on the approach to the reform of the Youth Act. In fact, our aim is to send that letter to the Chamber this week. During next week's debate, I will be prepared to discuss this with your Chamber. I would now like to focus on a number of specific questions that have been raised in this debate on my area. The broad reform of the Youth Act will be discussed with you next week. I will briefly go through a number of questions that have been asked with you. Firstly, there is Mr Omtzigt's question. He asked why the Youth Inspectorate has dropped out. The Prime Minister has already said something about this with regard to the investigation. That is not the case. The Department of Justice and Security is only leading. There has also been no change from the beginning. Mrs Westerveld asked about the three specific points. I'll call that one. First of all, there is a concrete rural approach to waiting times. Secondly, I would like to mention alternatives to residential and closed youth care. Extra money has been allocated for this. The previous cabinet has allocated almost 85 million extra to this. Thirdly, I would like to mention the regional expert teams that are now running, particularly in the places where it is really very pinched in the region and there are even under-supervisory positions. In short, there are three concrete things. That is also quite right and necessary. Mrs Westerveld also asked whether this motion was actually implemented. And are we actually trying to prevent removals? Minister Weerwind has already said something about this. I would also like to make it quite clear that these broader reforms are indeed necessary in order to achieve a reduction in the number of removals. The factsheet, which has also come back several times, indicates the direction on which we could eventually arrive at fewer removals. The pointe there is, as far as I am concerned, also professionalizing and giving space to professionalism. Then I go to Mr Peters, who asked about the JIM, the Mentor you brought in, a support figure. He asked if we could set that up and maybe even legally require it. In any case, I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, this solution is a very practical and also a good solution. I am also very willing to support them. I do wonder if it is necessary to impose it in the law. That is a question that I would like to include in the reform of youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u377	The law also states, for example, that Mr.Van der Staaij talked about Eigen Kracht Centrales. It's in the law. It just never happens, at least: almost never. Then we can say that the law says it's allowed, but it never happens. Such a JIM is allowed; it just never happens. If you ask professionals, they generally find it rather complicated to share what they experience as their core task, namely deciding what is good for a family, with a relative outsider, for example the neighbour. Maybe they don't think that neighbor's a good fit. That doesn't matter either; the neighbor is there and he stays there. The kid trusts that neighbor, so he could. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. I understand very well that a legal obligation may be difficult or something, but at the moment it is just too little. Then how is he going to make sure that it does happen, that it becomes the norm to do so? How is he going to ensure that instead of an exception it becomes the norm to take people seriously and to really accept informal care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u378	Indeed, I agree with what Mr Peters says: legal obligation did not guarantee that it is often applied. In fact, you yourself say that it is only a question of whether that really is the right route. Then what do we do? One of the things we do is let professionals translate the story themselves. It is much more useful and often more stimulating when professionals tell each other how useful this is, than if it comes from the government. But, of course, we can also, for example, in cooperation with the professional associations, BGZJ, to give an example, make agreements on handouts that they offer. We can also give further details about this: webinars, et cetera. So we can continue to organise this stimulus. I am also very willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u379	Finally, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u380	Yeah, finally. You may have misunderstood me at first when I said that the law already states that a network consultation is necessary. It just doesn't say that a network meeting has to be. And nobody's gonna do it. Maybe you should make it mandatory there at least to talk to the family. The law doesn't say that a JIM or a mentor isn't allowed. It's okay, but we're not gonna do it. After everything you have said about whatever you can, we are going to make it a directive and talk about it and I would like to think about it. If you would like to tell me that it has now become the norm, then perhaps that proves that it should not be legal. But I'm afraid this won't happen on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u381	I heard you right. At least we're gonna stimulate it. I will come back to you as to whether it is indeed helpful if we are going to grow into that legal obligation, but we may have a slightly different appreciation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u382	Then there is the final question from Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u383	I know that Mr Peters always strives to regulate it as well as possible at the front and to just sit on your hands where it can. In that context, I have a question. A few weeks ago, it turned out that we didn't focus on how many children who were placed out of the house are being returned. We just don't know that in the Netherlands. That's too bad, because then you can't make a policy. Measuring is knowing. So I asked the Minister to register it from now on. But I've also asked how much an expatriation costs and how much it costs at the front to support a family, with crutches, with outpatient support. How much does it cost to put a child out of the house and how much does it cost to support the family circle at the front, also with professional help? The figures on removals were known. Closed youth care is €170,000 per year in accommodation costs. A measure is €10,000 on top of that. That's going towards the two tons. But when I asked about the numbers in the front, what it costs to support a family for a year, it turned out that it was not possible to give figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u384	What exactly is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u385	My thesis is that it is cheaper to do everything in the front to make sure that a family does not dissipate than to try to repair at the back. Those numbers weren't known. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would like to look carefully over the coming period to see if he can make an insight into how much that costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u386	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u387	In any case, I agree with the argument from a to z: we must always try to avoid things rather than escalate them. In fact, I would even like to take the view that even if that were more expensive, I would like to enter into the conversation with you in order to do so. Even if it were more expensive, I think it would be better for the child who grows up at home rather than in an institution, a closed institution or anywhere else. In this sense, I think it is a good and relevant question in itself, because we also need to look at financial manageability. But it is the commitment that we do everything that is needed in front of us to prevent problems from escalating and to ensure that children can grow up at home. If it can be helpful to visualize this financially, we are happy to do so. Here it is avenging that there is a decentralised youth care system. For many of these things, the information is more known to municipalities than to the government. This is something that lies in the broad reform of youth care. Furthermore, we have often been advised by experts that we need to improve our information systems. This is therefore also necessary in the broader, urgent reform of youth care. In short, that's what we have to do. That will also be the reason why we cannot provide that information now. Maybe we can do that in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u388	So you don't know exactly when to ask the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u389	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u390	Mr. Ceder, you're out of interruptions, but there's still a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u391	This is in fact perfectly in line with the last question I have here, from Mrs Van Beuker. It is about the actions that can be taken to give priority to preventing removals. This requires a wide range of actions. Strengthening the specialist youth support is a very important one, because the stronger the specialist professionals who are already there, the less chance that removal is needed. But also the local teams need to be brought in better order. Then we'll get into the Youth Act debate a little bit. They are often so fragile and so different from place to place that we still need to strengthen them and see what is needed for local neighbourhood teams, neighbourhood teams or whatever they are called. Not to mention, there will have to be a bigger step for the quality and professionalism of youth care, especially by the sector itself, which is eager to do so, so that the most effective interventions can finally be put to work to prevent relocations. Because it's always an ultimatum remedium.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u392	It was indeed about the prevention but also about the faster ending of a removal. We have been told a few times that the court decides, for example, a removal or an ots, and that the assistance will not get started at all because of the waiting lists. I have just heard your colleague say that, in the context of youth protection, we are thinking about side-intromers. I thought that was a good solution. There's a shortage in the labour market. There are really a lot of shortages and long waiting lists in the youth care sector. On the one hand, I think what the Secretary of State says about reinforcements is right. On the other hand, there are waiting lists as long as there are not enough people. That's what I'm worried about. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u393	Unfortunately, that is a fact that we are dealing with. It is, of course, a broad labour market problem, also broad in the care sector. That's what you see coming back to juvenile care. There's one more specific thing going on here. That's just what the Prime Minister said. Many of the professionals have rather more often organized the light care for themselves, simply because there is a huge pressure to do the highly professional, specialist, complex cases. If we offer as much space as we have done in the past period, it is sometimes more interesting for professionals to take on a little less complex casusism than that complex casusism. In short, the scope debate will have to be included. In the end, this has led to a imbalance in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u394	I can very well follow the Secretary of State in that. I'll find out what I'm thinking. We now know, especially with today's debate, that children have been evicted. We want to create a viable environment and strengthen the family to prevent the removals from taking place, but we also want to make sure that children are placed back faster. Well, then, there's got to be something going on in the priorities, isn't there? I hear you say that something must be done; we are going to organise a debate on the Youth Act. I'm hearing a number of things. Do you also see an opportunity to achieve something earlier with priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u395	Well, I would really like to say that this week, in principle tomorrow, we are coming up with a letter on this major reform of the Youth Act, and that includes a wide range of ideas and measures for the short, medium and long term. So yes, you are right: we see that urgency too. That is why we are coming up with this reform as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u396	I'm being served very quickly. So there will be a letter tomorrow, and perhaps there will be priorities in that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u397	Sure, because that conversation about the Youth Act has been going on with your Chamber for a while. So it's not that surprising, I'd almost like to say, that letter is coming tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u398	Thank you for your contribution. Oh, Mrs. Maeijer, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u399	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had another question to both the Minister and the Secretary of State, but they could discuss this with each other about the Eigen Force Centrale. In my view, the Secretary of State has not yet specifically addressed this issue. I've been told that some of the victims are using it. That Eigen Force Centrale supports them in drawing up a plan to restore contact, reunite, return to the family and the network, and they use anyone who wishes to contribute in the best interests of the child. I was actually wondering if the Secretary of State would see possibilities, if it would be otherwise willing to check whether they would like to talk to them, to see if they could be involved in the recovery and return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u400	I know there's a question. And I know that organization very well, too, so it's known about that. In the second term, I should like to refer specifically to the extent to which it can also offer a solution to this particular case. So I will come back to that briefly in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u401	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State and invite the Secretary of State for Supplements to answer the only question she has been asked. I understand that next week on 19 May there will also be a committee debate on the recovery of childcare allowances. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u402	That is correct, Mr President, and that will probably be the reason why there are only a limited number of questions. But I do hope that next week I will discuss with the Chamber the progress report and the progress of the recovery operation in detail. Before I come to the question-solving, I would like to stress in advance that, of course, the children also experience the painful consequences of the supplement scandal in everyday life. Many of them have grown up in poverty and in a stressful environment, with all the consequences. We're talking about the removals today. This may sometimes have been through a judicial decision, but in some cases it was also, unfortunately, voluntary, because the parents felt forced and desperate, and sometimes had no roof over their heads. Then there are questions from the Chamber. First of all, Mr Omtzigt, who had another question about parents abroad. At the moment, April 18th, 2,773 applications have been submitted. 911 parents abroad have since been identified as victims, and 1,469 have been rejected for the light test. And these people are mainly from Belgium, Germany, Curaçao, the United Kingdom, Turkey and Suriname, when it comes to the parents who have been identified as duped. I indicated in the letter of 17 March 2022 what the plans are for this. They are, of course, already eligible for the financial recovery through the implementation organisation, as well as for emergency aid and the debt approach. What we cannot deliver at the moment is the broad support that is provided through the municipality. But it is now being carefully considered how we can solve this in a different way. As soon as we have finally settled this, we shall return to it. The same applies to aid if people would like to return to the Netherlands, so that we can help them. Then there was the question about the monthly update of progress. The Minister for Legal Protection has already dealt with this. For the recovery operation, we do a comprehensive progress report every quarter, but we also update the state of play on the UHT website on a weekly basis. Then Mr Azarkan van DENK had another question about the integrated assessment. This comprehensive assessment will examine what has gone wrong with a parent's childcare allowance. The PZBs do have several conversations with the parent, and then the consequences of the supplement scandal are asked. Then, of course, there is also regular removal. But in that integrated assessment, a removal placement does not result in a higher remuneration. That is really up to the Committee on Actual Damage. Finally, Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the Tax Office and the Ministry of Finance shared data with the youth protection chain. My colleague Marnix van Rij is involved in this and is working on it. He ordered PwC to investigate the Fraud Signaling Provision and the parties with which the information was shared. Youth protection was not identified as receiving party in that investigation. That is all I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u403	Thank you. I'll take a look around. Is there another question left, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u404	I was wondering about the number of signals, so how many parents reported it through the personal business manager during the full review. The question was, how does that get a place? The answer has been given: it does not get a place. Nothing else will happen to that, I understand. But is there any insight into how many people we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u405	No, I am afraid to say that, because it does not really play a role in the overall assessment; that is only the case with the Committee on Actual Damage. That is not always noted either, because it does not play a role in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-12-tweedekamer-3.u406	Thank you. Then I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for her contribution. That brings us to the end of the first period in its entirety. I suggest we suspend until 7:45 p.m. and then start with the second term.
