ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the speech by Ukrainian President Zelensky. I shall first give the floor to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u2	First of all, thank you very much for the letter. I see there's been a lot of hard work. That's how we like it here. He just got in. I see colleagues reading now, and I too have been reading like a mad one. A fifteen minutes extra reading time would be very nice, even though it's very tight, but it's already late and I don't want to stretch it any longer than necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u3	I'm gonna see if we can suspend for 15 minutes as a reading break. I shall suspend the sitting until 8:45 p.m. and then proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the speech by Ukrainian President Zelensky. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister once again. Also a welcome to the people who follow the debate in the public gallery or in another way, and to the spokesmen. We agreed to hold the debate in one time. The MPs have given their input. The Secretary of Defense has answered the questions and a letter of extensive information has been received not so long ago. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand the impatience of the Chamber. I then reached out to all those responsible, both civil servants and personally, and to the Prime Minister. I would like to stress once again that as a cabinet we have a collective responsibility, but also that we all have maximum individual commitment to the best possible organisation of everything that comes into the sanctions. That is why there has been a lot of intensive contact over the past afternoon. As far as I am concerned, I will continue to do so of course with regard to my coordinating role and my international role. Colleagues will do so for their own work in the field of implementation and in the area for which they have supervisory responsibility. All of this is also described in the letter. I hope that the letter answers a number of questions that have been asked to a large extent and at all will clarify the wider context to a large extent. I can also understand why Members of Parliament are wondering about a lot of new things. If any questions arise tonight, I will take them back and ensure that they are answered, either in a written round or in a different way. Of course, the discussion continues. I would also like to stress that the sanction package is unprecedented. Much is already happening from the cabinet's side. I hope the letter gives some confidence in that. At the same time, there is so much new that there is ongoing consultation between and within departments to see how more can be done. Maybe I can say two or three more things. The first is that I want to pledge to the Chamber that we are going to try to make an international comparison. I see Mrs Ploumen standing at the interrupting microphone and she had explicitly shared the view that the Netherlands would do much less than others. I'd like to try that equation with the cabinet. Maybe I can give you one example of how different things sometimes hide behind the numbers. France, for example, has communicated itself, which is why I can easily speak openly about the fact that about 23 billion has been frozen there. Of these, 22 billion is money from the Russian central bank. That leaves about 850 million. That is not a very crazy amount if you make the comparison with the Netherlands. But I'll see if we can compare it more broadly. Then you will undoubtedly see countries that do much more, or countries that you can learn from. I wanted to emphasise that. In short, I hope that the picture of what we are already doing will also emerge. I would like to add one more specific addition. I got that information after the letter. The Minister of Finance wants to discuss a proposal in the cabinet tomorrow about trust offices. We have been in the process of making changes all the time, but I was specifically asked to report them orally. This is perhaps an introduction to the letter that has been drawn up with speed. That took a lot of time and effort. I hope the letter arrived at your Chamber more or less in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u6	Thank you very much. First of all, Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u7	Thanks for the letter. The letter was signed by eight ministers. This demonstrates the need for tight coordination. I would like to call upon Minister Hoekstra to do so. The letter gives some answers, but also raises a number of questions. Before I ask the Minister a number of questions on some specific points, I would like to make the following point. Let me do it without qualification. An interdepartmental sanction working group was set up on 2 December, and I believe that following a motion by Mr Van der Lee. This group focuses on a larger Dutch contribution to an effective European sanction policy. I note that this group has arrived, I'm just saying homely because we didn't do well enough. So we are now going to work with all the departments to make things better. When sanctions were imposed after the outbreak of the war, quickly, with a good role of the Netherlands, this minister knew that the implementation of sanctions in the Netherlands had not been without problems at all. In fact, extra effort had to be made. But I read that only the day before yesterday, on 29 March, a new group of top officials came together to see how the government-wide steering group of sanctions at director level could ensure that those sanctions are implemented. Then my big question is: if the Minister, when he argued for sanctions, knew that the Netherlands was not prepared to implement and enforce those sanctions, why did it take so long until something was done? And "so long" is until March 29, 34 days after the start of the war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u8	There has, of course, been a great deal of contact over the past period, both administratively and politically, between all kinds of rulers, precisely to coordinate. This is an unprecedented package. Moreover, I think it is only very good that before the war, and not necessarily related to the war, people decided to look at whether they could do more and how they should deal with it. My perception is.... but I have not been there myself.... that this has not happened so much from the view that all kinds of things would not go well in the Netherlands, but more from the image that you would like to coordinate more on that, if necessary. I would like to say specifically that the motion adopted by the Chamber was about the task force, for which special money has been made available. So that's not about operationalizing things in the interior. That's about how you can make sure you can take the lead in planning discussions about sanctions abroad. Those are really two different things. So there has been a lot of contact at all levels. And at the same time, of course, things keep coming up. This has led to cabinet council again this week. Much of this discussion would have been otherwise next week, because we wanted to discuss a number of things definitively in the cabinet tomorrow. That is the profit of this debate: we are already discussing some of these things, and that letter, which would otherwise have been in a different form next week, is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u9	I am actually not satisfied with this answer. I read in the letter: after it became clear that the implementation of sanctions could be improved, on 24 March 2022, at the request of the Security and Intelligence Council, not the least, but those are my words, which are not the first meeting of the government-wide Steering Committee on Sanctions at Director level. So in this Chamber, in the newspapers, in the people in the country, everyone thought: I don't think the Netherlands is doing enough with these sanctions. Does that even work out for you? And only on 24 March: 34 days after the beginning of the war, and after swift sanctions have been imposed, the group met for the first time. If I were a coordinating ruler, I'd be ashamed of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u10	This deserves an explanation of what has happened. In the first part of this debate, I have already told Mrs Ploumen that a lot of sanctions have been imposed, which you simply have to implement and which obviously belong to one person in government or one specific supervisor. So there's a lot going on in there. Two. There is also a lot of coordination between ministries. The State has always played a role in this. By the way, all kinds of other departments have also played an active part in this. There has been a lot of political and administrative contact about it. It's just that you keep discovering new things. You keep discovering new things that you still want to settle. New measures have been taken over and over again. Honestly, at this level, the government has never rolled out a sanction package. But I think a lot of things are going well. That is why I found that comparison with France quite insightful. But I think we should do the best we can. So we need to be organized to do the best we can. When it comes to coordination and international agreements, I think that this is primarily a responsibility for myself. But I hope I have really managed to convey that every member of the cabinet who has a little responsibility for this, feels and takes responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u12	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. That last thing, I'm assuming. I would also like to call on those eight rulers not to waste time with unnecessary meetings, but simply to take action. I am making such a point because, from the moment those sanctions were imposed until now, 36 days later, there may be a possibility of this being done, and I am going to ask the Minister if any funds have been drawn away. Apparently there are no more yachts in the Netherlands that are being built by order of the Russians or that are here in the port. No, thanks to the cuckoo. They've sailed a long time ago. That's my concern. How are we going to enforce these sanctions in the future? I'm not quite sure yet. Two. It is possible that there have been many evasions of these sanctions in the Netherlands, and we should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u13	I would like to add something to that, precisely because of what Mrs Ploumen says: don't waste time on political meetings. All kinds of directors and various departments of State, but I know from a large number of departments also from direct experience, have started immediately. We have just started to do exactly what Mrs Ploumen says, namely to find a practical way to implement it. Where your own department can do it all, do it all by itself and wait for no one. Very often there was coordination between them, because not all of them require three or four other departments. Very often you can do it yourself, sometimes with one other. So a lot could be done and a lot has also been done. I really want to emphasise that. Will people have anticipated the sanctions? I remember precisely that with a few colleagues I was in one of the first councils and we said to each other: already at this moment oligarchs who follow this closely will be engaged in circular movements. So I am sure that for the Netherlands, but also for all other countries, oligarchs have tried to escape from this. See for example the boats that suddenly docked at the Maldives in the first phase. Why? Because they didn't participate in a sanction package at the time. I don't know what the score is right now. Those boats were undoubtedly part of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u14	Thank you. Mr Sjoerdsma, then Mr Jasper van Dijk and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u15	First of all, let me say that this is just a good letter. I mean, if you want to talk about an overview, about what's going on and about where it's going a little bit less well, that's also in all honesty, because on some points it doesn't really go as you'd like, so this is at least a letter like my group that wants to see. I'll share the concern... Let me put it this way. I got a bit of a feeling from the letter that tomorrow there is a lot of far-reaching decision-making in the Council of Ministers, rather late in the process. I do share the concern of colleagues who ask: what is slipping away? I would like to suggest a few concrete examples to this Minister to see how he reflects on that. Maybe first of all a super yacht by Abramovich Ohio, called the Eclipse and is worth 590 million euros, which was still on March 1st in Saint-Maarten. That is of course not the Netherlands, but the Kingdom. That yacht left there. The second example I would like to mention is what the Minister writes here about the Land Registry. The cabinet is now going to arrange for notes to be made, but does that mean that real estate, so to speak, has not been able to be traded lately? Or could that still be traded in the period up to tomorrow's decision? I say this to begin with these two examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u16	Let me get this straight. This is a bit along the lines of what I just said to Mrs Ploumen. My real observation is that the departments, including my own department, did not wait for tomorrow's meeting. By the way, many of the things we planned to do tomorrow are actually already in the letter. With a joint letter from so many colleagues, I expect these actions to pass through the Council of Ministers. But it's not like we've been waiting for that. I know that goes for the Land Registry. I know that goes for the IRS. I know that for a lot of implementing organisations, they certainly didn't wait. I would very much like to answer the question of what exactly they have done, but I should like to return to that. I also like to come back to that yacht in Saint Martin, because I don't know. I've been contacting each of the islands for the past two weeks, or what is it, three weeks, myself. That was with the Heads of State or Government of the countries. I have emphasized the following. It is very nice that we jointly condemn the war. We must also work together in the area of sanctions. I wanted to give the political signal back there myself. I did it on purpose. I'm sure others who spend a lot of time with the Kingdom have done the same. Then there is the question of the Land Registry and what has already been done. I know they've started. But if Mr Sjoerdsma asks what that means, I will see to it that an answer is sent in writing to the Chamber. But my perception is that no one has waited until next Friday. Everyone's just been going through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u17	The latter would be reassuring. In itself, it is fine to return to this in writing. However, I have the point that I believe two days ago the Land Registry said in an official response: we have not received any instructions and we have not seen any legislation, so we are doing nothing. Of course, I translate it a little more flatter than the words of the Land Registry itself, but that is what it actually came down to. It is good if the Minister takes that into account in the written communication. Maybe it's a little broader. I do not know when a working party should meet or how often that should be. If I'm being honest, I don't really want to talk about that either. What I do think is important, more generally, is the incredible need to chase after it. I hope the Minister will agree with that. That's not because I don't trust this minister's colleagues that they wouldn't. But my own experience with that kind of thing is that you almost have to make it a campaign to make sure that this happens as soon as possible and as well as possible and that there are no white spots. It's just gonna take someone. I hope this Minister will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u18	I hope that I have made it clear in the first part of this debate that I am fully committed to two points. The first, in which I have certainly not been laisser-faire, is to ensure that the talks about sanctions and more sanctions are constantly held. This week, too, I did so in the Czech Republic and Slovakia and also by telephone with several colleagues. Part of it is the audience that I have spoken to them and that is to follow on social media. But of course, I have more contacts with people to see if I can move them to potentially do more. I hope I made that sufficiently clear in the first term, but the second is that I am fully committed to this coordinating task. We also feel it as the Cabinet fully as our responsibility. That is why many colleagues said: please put me under that letter, because I also want to show that we want to do so. Whether the puzzle piece is at one or the other, or at the border, or at three at a time, that doesn't really matter, because society and the Chamber can expect the Cabinet to do this as well as possible and that we are on top of each other. That applies to me, but I really know that I am speaking for everyone else: all those involved in the trade, the Prime Minister and the State Secretary who are involved but not under the letter. It really applies to all of us. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say to Mr Sjoerdsma that we are simply ensuring that we do not just answer some of those questions. I would also like to say to Mrs Ploumen that I would like to see whether we can make an overview with other countries. Besides, I think it's good to see how the numerator's getting up. There's no point in doing that on a daily basis, but you could do that every two or three weeks. In any case, I would like to refer two weeks to the cabinet and to the officials to hear whether that gives enough traction or whether we are doing a lot of work on the letter and the update. But I am very much at home for such a mechanism, because I think it gives insight into what we do to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u19	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u20	It seems to me to be a very good idea for the government to keep us closely informed, because it is a bit bizarre that we have been working on this subject for weeks and that this afternoon, following the debate on Zelensky's speech, we are getting the Minister to send us a letter of a total of 25 sides this evening after eight o'clock, if you take into account the questions of Omtzigt. Why only now, was my first thought, because it is not the first time we have talked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u21	Maybe that's another question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u22	I have tried to answer that question in the first place, but I hope that will be clear from the letter. Yes, there is still a lot to be done, but the departments are also doing a lot. It turns out so, especially when you look at that list, which I mean all the way to the end of the letter. The format has changed a few times, but I think it is now completely at the bottom of the letter. So a lot has happened. But there's still a lot to be done. The idea of the cabinet was simply to inform the Chamber neatly after the Council of Ministers, because then we could have gotten it together, not only what we already did, but also what we would just discuss tomorrow in the Council of Ministers. That's usually the way. Normally, the things that you sway before the Council of Ministers in the media or sway in Parliament are taken off the agenda. They will not be discussed in the Council of Ministers. That is why I felt that we felt that we should ensure that the letter was there at the beginning of next week. That is also what I indicated at the beginning of this debate. But once again, I have of course realised very well in the debate that the Chamber had a point: the overview is perhaps there for us to a large extent, but not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u23	But there have also been bubbles coming along for weeks in which you can see that other countries are doing considerably more than we are doing. The minister then called France. France has also seized 30 properties. Belgium and Italy also do significantly more than the Netherlands. Will the Minister now arrange that Russian real estate can also be seized retroactively with the help of the land register? 'Cause I think that's the least of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u24	I really want to look at what is possible with the Kadaster, but I do not think that the Chamber will mean that I have to abide by Dutch law. So, for example, I cannot confiscate cases without a criminal title. You can freeze assets, and I'm very willing to look into things like that. The cabinet is also very willing to do so. I would also like to go back to that in more detail. I am also prepared to add to the comparison I have promised Mrs Ploumen that sort of thing. I really think that the big money is often in the frozen assets, see also the comparison with France. 800 million is really different than 30 properties. That is the kind of thing we can certainly add to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u25	Finally, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u26	It's a war situation. So it is an extraordinary situation and I find it very worrying that the Minister should say: I would like to take a closer look at it. He thus implies that there are Russians with real estate in the Netherlands, but he doesn't know if he can confiscate it. And that, in my view, is the determination that the Chamber is now asking for and we are now missing from the government. Get on it. Look also at my motion to strengthen that capacity for compliance with motions, because that is where the weak point lies. This is not a matter of sanctions themselves, but of compliance with sanctions. I would like to explain this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u27	Exactly: a seizure is not expropriation. That is why I have just indicated to Mr Van Dijk that I am very willing to come back to that, but I should like to speak back to the institutes that have knowledge and skills for that, in his question of seizure, which is actually an equivalent of freezing, to see what we might already do about it and otherwise do even more. That is different from the expropriation, the taking away, because in the Netherlands a title is needed for that. That simply requires a legal title. That's a different title than freezing or impounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u28	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks, and then to Mrs Kamminga, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u29	I just said it. Great compliments for the letter. We asked for it, he's here and he's clear, so thank you very much for that. But I find the content disturbing, very disturbing even. The cabinet is constantly saying that it has taken firm sanctions. I agree. I like that. We should do more. The first sanction package was announced on 21 February. That was three days before the raid. One day before the raid, the biggest package entered. We've moved on for over a month now. We have very strong sanctions, which the cabinet proudly speaks of, but there is no real mechanism to intervene firmly. That won't be on the Council of Ministers until tomorrow. It is stated that an exemption has been granted to Article 67 of the AWR by the Minister of Finance. When did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u30	Maybe I should like to say a few words about the first point. I agree with Mr Klaver and with other speakers that you must make maximum haste. But it is really not the case that the cabinet has waited until tomorrow with this whole package. A lot just happened. You can see that in the whole list of cases that have been entered, but also in the funds that have been frozen. That more than half a billion doesn't fall from the sky. Again, we need to make a more detailed comparison, but at this point I think you should compare that with the approximately 900 million in France, if I take the Russian Federation's central bank money out of 23 billion. I would like to answer the question about Rule 67. It may be possible to do so during the debate if officials are listening and are able to find out. But I don't know that by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u31	Then I'll wait. That is a crucial question for me, and I will explain to you why. I would almost advise the Minister not to beat himself too much about what the cabinet has actually done, and to say: look, we took that half a billion. If you compare that to the 80 billion reportedly going around in the Netherlands, that's really peanuts. Why is Article 67 so important? The Netherlands is a tax haven. Over the last ten years, I have had debates on this in the House of Representatives. It was the Netherlands that made our embassies available, including in Ukraine and Russia, to give road shows to try to get rich people here to set up letterbox companies. That has happened on a large scale. Now I read here that the Kadaster has a major problem in finding out who ultimately the interested parties are when real estate is registered on companies. Let that be exactly why you need that tax rotation, namely to find out who's behind these companies. We all know that the Russians have invested enormously in the Netherlands. They own a lot of real estate in our capital, which they still earn every day. That money is still being earned. Can the Minister give me a guarantee that that money is frozen as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u32	I can now say that since the sanctions started, it is simply forbidden to participate in transactions of real estate, persons and entities on that sanction list. That is not possible at the moment, unless a notary and others actively break the law. But let me take this as my starting point. The D.A. and the police should take action against that. Because that's not a violation. If you were gonna go through with this kind of thing, you'd really get to the criminal justice system. This is forbidden. With regard to that ruling, it is also stated in that letter. If that requires further specification, I'd be happy to take it back. I would like to say to Mr Klaver that I did not suggest at any time that we would be half-finished or that there would not be much work left to be done. But it is not true that all this has been kept waiting until tomorrow in the Council of Ministers. Far from it. My real observation is that the departments have been working hard on it in full width. I will return to the article number, hopefully during this first term. 'Cause there's no second term, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u33	No, so it has to be in now and half an hour. Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u34	I'm getting an answer to a question I didn't ask. My point was this. At the moment, the Land Registry cannot find out who is ultimately the stakeholders behind all kinds of companies. This cannot be done after legislation or regulation that will be on the Council of Ministers tomorrow. In this letter, the Minister actually says: of a lot of real estate now in Russian hands, we are not going to find out and therefore we are not going to lay our hands on it. That's one. I would like the Minister to confirm that or say, Mr. Klaver, you are completely wrong. Let's do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u35	I think that I understood the Chamber in this way and that letter also states: let's see what you might still be able to do about these UBOs. I'd like to take a look at that. Is that easy? No, I think Mr Klaver is right about that. He is right: we are a country that has had a financial infrastructure for years, which has made it attractive not only to invest in the Netherlands, but also to let money run through the Netherlands. This applies to companies, and so does wealthy individuals. To be honest, I would like to see what can be done, and I would like to come back to that, if Mr Klaver agrees. But I can't do that right now in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u36	I had a second question, but I also have to respond to it. This was not the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u37	Perhaps you could just ask the Minister a brief question. Maybe that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u38	Is it true that at the moment, and even after tomorrow, the Land Registry cannot find out who is ultimately the interested party behind real estate on a legal person? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u39	I really want to check that very carefully with the Land Registry. I really want to make sure there's not a single sleeve that can be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u40	Minister, can you come back to that in writing or can you do so today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u41	We have tried to write down as much information as possible in this letter. We have also written down something about this. At the same time, as I understand Mr Klaver, he says: "See what you can do in addition to what you can do. Can you even figure that out? For example, is there any legal basis for this?" I'd like to try that. I would think Mr Klaver would agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u42	Very briefly, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u43	Patience is running out because this minister still doesn't know what it's about. He's had that all afternoon. The letter is good; the answer is disappointing. Then there is my second question, because I am not getting anywhere on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u44	But the Minister has indicated that he will return to your question about the Land Registry in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u46	I hope that the Minister will come back to the debate on Rule 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u47	No, 67. Article 68 is the article in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u48	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u49	They're both important and they both work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u50	Your last question, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u51	Sure. The minister is going to answer something I'm not going to... but fine. I'm gonna see it. Then there's the next question. Money is made from buildings in the Netherlands that are now owned by Russians. My question is not: can they be transferred? You can't do that. Notaries have a reporting obligation. But it makes money. 'Cause they're all in the rental business. They're just coming in with the monthly revenues. That's probably about hundreds of thousands of euros a week. Can the cabinet intervene, or is the money involved already being dealt with? How do we make sure that money doesn't still flow to these Russian oligarchs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u52	I would love to, but I really want to discuss that in the Cabinet before giving a careless answer. Mr Klaver may ask, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u53	The Minister will return to this in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u54	I would like to return to that in writing. We have tried to answer as many questions as possible in this letter. A lot of homework has been done. There are a lot of things you want to see if you can make them happen. I would like to be able to give a careful answer, because this is linked to all kinds of financial aspects, legal aspects and ownership aspects. So I'd like to do that, but I don't want to do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u55	I'm addressing you, Mr. Chairman. Otherwise, I could take advantage of this moment for a question. I have a point of order. This afternoon I said: "We have all kinds of questions. They are also technical in nature. Or answer them in a letter and here tonight, or invite your colleagues." This Minister has chosen not to take colleagues to the plenary. Now it's said again: we'll send a note. We can shut this room down! Maybe I should just open a mailbox instead of having a seat here in parliament. I just want to be able to have a debate on this. I'm not asking, what's the cabinet gonna do? No, what's the deal now? What is reality now? I asked: is it true that there are still oligarchs who make money because they have income from rent and do we have a view on that? The answer to that was no. It's still an embarrassing display. It was this afternoon, and it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u56	Mr. Chairman. I have one more addition to the question about Abramovich and 1 March. I have already indicated that I have been in contact with them myself, not specifically about this case, but about the sanctions in full width. I was just told that Abramovich was not on the EU sanctions list on 1 March, but that he was placed on it on 15 March. From that moment on, something could only be done against his ships that were chained up. That's what I was gonna say in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u57	Thank you to the cabinet, in particular to the Minister, for replying in the letter. I think it's an insightful letter in itself. The letter also raises additional questions, but I believe that there are still opportunities for this at a later date. Thank you, too, for the commitments that the Minister has just made. I can see for myself that the Minister still has many intentions; a number of colleagues also said so. That kind of evokes the feeling that there is work in trains, so that one has to finish first. Let me give you an easy example: we were just talking about the KvK. There'll be a settlement decision in the master's office tomorrow. Then that arrangement comes the next week. I'm so afraid that the next week will be thought of: oh, do we have enough capacity at the KvK to work that out? I think this is in several areas, because I read it more in the letter. The KvK is an example of this. I don't want to take anything away from the complexity of this matter, but how do we make sure we don't work in a train but in parallel? If it is done, how can we speed it up and then be set up to implement it immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u58	I'd like to agree. By the way, we're already trying to do that. I will also check this particular example, because frankly I do not know. For example, I do not know whether the KvK has been checked whether this requires additional capacity; I simply do not know. I think it's a fair question. I also know that many departments, many colleagues, have really started to work. They really didn't wait till tomorrow. They've been doing a lot of those things. It is not for nothing that these examples are also in the letter, but I would like to take this example with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u59	Thanks for the comprehensive letter, but the content was extremely painful. IRS can't share data, says the state's attorney. The GDPR won't let you do that. In all those other European countries, it may be, but here the Dutch Tax Administration cannot tell the sanctioning authorities whose boats, houses or other things they have in their rulings. The landlady hasn't registered all those cases yet. On the basis of what Mr Klaver said, we do not know whether the Land Registry will be able to do so tomorrow. If the person doesn't keep it as a person, but through his e.g., we don't know yet. Tomorrow, the cabinet decides who's responsible. So far there is no authority in the Netherlands responsible for sanctions on houses, sanctions on boats, or sanctions on paintings; we do not know that. The image that emerges from this is not beautiful. After 36 days of war, we in the Netherlands are going to decide who should ultimately impose these sanctions. We asked the Prime Minister two weeks before the war: have these preparations been made? We also said we don't want to know exactly how that goes, because we understand that we shouldn't wake up sleeping dogs. I note that this is not well done. I have some questions. I'd like to have the counsel of the state's attorney. That's just an information request, so I assume we'll get it tomorrow. I would also like to know if DNB immediately knows the ultimate beneficial owner of all the trust offices she has requested. All these people have set up incredibly complicated structures. In the Netherlands, the basic rule for a trust office is that you should know the UBO. That's got to be a flesh and blood guy, no matter what you put in there. So it has to be someone who lives in the Netherlands. Otherwise, you can't keep the goods here. If those trust offices don't say that, the license of those trust offices must be revoked immediately. We know from previous reports that there are tens of billions of assets. Does DNB monitor that as of today? We all know what top ten trust offices do business with these Russians. Is DNB going to come in there tomorrow and just say: we want to know what's on those sanction lists? That is the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u60	I'd like to find out, and I'd like to inform the Chamber about that, but I don't know about that myself. So I really should check that out. As far as the national attorney is concerned, I believe that there are agreements on what the Chamber makes public. We'll just stick to that in full. I should check the state attorney's advice myself, especially in a case like this. So that's what I want to check out. I think I can let the Chamber know these two things tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u61	Thank you. I'm assuming that this is just happening at the trust offices and that DNB is listening in. That's where the tens of billions are. They are not accidentally with an insurer in the Netherlands; we know that. It's nice that someone confiscated $358 from an insurance company. I have no idea what that's for, but that wasn't the object of the sanctions here. Then I asked about the APA and ATR rules. These are very complex rulings, on which you obtain advance security from the Tax Administration. Rich people get it; people with surcharges don't get it. That's another problem. In those rulings, they have to say exactly what they have in their possession. That's why I wanted those rulings exchanged. Those rulings are not yet exchanged, but the documents show that they are only the rulings from 2017. The road show in Ukraine was in 2013/2014 and the Netherlands-Russia year was also in 2014. I suspect that some of these people have rulings from 2015 or 2016 and that they are simply not found. Can the Dutch Government ensure that those rulings are also reviewed, that they are communicated to the sanctioning authorities and that they are withdrawn if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u62	My suspicion is that a number of rulings stem from a much further past. I don't think that's necessarily anything from the last ten years. I do not know whether 2014 or 2013 has been a key year in that. It is possible, but of course the problem of the oligarchs has been there for a long time. The financial infrastructure of the Netherlands has also been there for much longer. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm just gonna have to check why this year's cesorship was laid. Is that because there's data until then? Is there another reason? In itself, my assessment is that everyone in the cabinet would also like to go back as far as possible. If that is possible at all, we are going to do something about it as far as I am concerned. Then we'll get back to the room. That's what I have to do, I think, because I just don't know what the reason was. I haven't been able to ask you that either. I've been here most of the day. I was able to read the letter very quickly. I have been able to add a number of things to it at an earlier stage. I've called all the colleagues. But I have not been able to have contact with colleagues on any of the specific issues themselves to ask: why exactly this or not? That's what you do the moment you have more time for that. I'd like to take it home. I will therefore answer the question as to whether there is any particular reason to worry about the year of the road show, to which Mr Omtzigt rightly refers. These are events that sometimes lead to extra activity. I'm not sure, but I suspect that oligarchs were already in the process of bringing power to all kinds of places in the world before. So it is quite possible that the problem existed before that, but I'm just not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u63	Mr. Overzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u64	I'm glad we'll get information tomorrow about the country's attorney's advice and about when the AWR has been modified so that it can be exchanged. Then we'll know if that's done in a little bit of time. I'm glad we're actually hearing tomorrow if DNB's gonna put the trust offices at their throats and otherwise just shut them down. Otherwise, next week, I shall be tabling a motion for an additional two-minute debate, because that is no longer possible today. I think the trust offices should be closed. They must now immediately indicate where these matters lie and whether those previous cases exist. I would also like to read in the government's letter tomorrow how other areas are maintained. I didn't participate in this afternoon's debate. I don't think I'm gonna be able to debate ten hours a day. I find it admirable that this minister does. But I get all kinds of signals from companies saying, "My competitors are still providing services to mega yachts. They still deliver stuff. My competitors in the trust office sector are still doing this." It's all coming in spontaneously via e-mail. So it is not just about what legislation is about, but also about what is actually being enforced, because I cannot be sure at customs as well how many containers have been kept in advance. It seems to be maintained afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u65	Mr President, could I give two comments? I don't know exactly how to do that, but in any case every signal from society is helpful, because it gives you feedback on what does and doesn't work. I also get regular reports from people about things that they see going well and not well. They sometimes come from the Netherlands and sometimes from abroad. That's what the Cabinet is highly recommended for. I also understand Mr Omtzigt's question. I have already hesitated somewhat with the previous questions because I would ask a colleague, in particular, to make information available in the very short term. My assessment of this is that at least a first-line response could be possible. I myself will provide the answer to the national attorney, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is, of course, about the provision of information. The question that Mr Omtzig is adding now is something I would very much like to include in the next piece that we will deliver next week. I'm afraid it won't be possible to do that tomorrow across the board. So I'm asking for some respite there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u66	Then I will go to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union and then to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u67	After 36 days since the beginning of the war, we have this debate. That is painful, because before the raid we have already talked about sanctions and whether the cabinet was ready and prepared. The purpose of the sanctions is, of course, to make Russia pay a high price, so that this war stops as soon as possible. I do not think that we are having this debate after 36 days is consistent with the purpose of the sanction. That's painful. I have two questions. With regard to the advice of the state attorney that will come tomorrow, I wonder when the application to the lawyer was made by the cabinet. The same applies to the request to remove confidentiality under Article 67. So my question is not only when it has been granted, but also when the request has been made to implement these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u68	Those are supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u69	I'll see if they can be taken, too. I hope that it is clear from the letter that the Tax Administration has looked at what we can do at a very early stage and that we have taken one step at a time. At some point it was said that we should consult the national attorney. I say that because you would think otherwise: that was relatively recent. Yes, that's right, because there was also a whole route ahead of it. That's not written in the letter for nothing. But I'll see if these two things can be included in the letter. I'm not sure I can, but at least I'm gonna do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u70	That's fine, which also shows that the urgency is very high. But I'd also like to hear exactly when that request was made. So that's tomorrow. Then, as far as the aircraft, which may be based in other parts of our Kingdom, are concerned. The letter refers to ships, both in the Netherlands and in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. According to the letter, there are no ships left. However, I do not see much information on aircraft appearing in the letter, while the Minister also knows that last week it appeared that there were ten oligarchic aircraft registered on Aruba alone. According to the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, we have, in my view, a common approach to foreign affairs. The Foreign Minister is therefore also responsible for the implementation and enforcement of sanctions in the countries there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u71	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u72	My question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u73	Oh, I thought you asked a question about the planes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u74	My question is whether the Minister can tell us anything about aircraft in the Caribbean countries and what contacts there have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u75	Excuse me. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u76	We have a common foreign policy. I myself mentioned the following in the conversations. Others have undoubtedly done the same, because there has been official contact about it. Do we feel the same urgency with regard to what is happening in full width in the field of war? That's one. Two: are we fully in line with each other when it comes to sanctions? In the 'knowledge talks' as it is formally called, which I have had with the three Prime Ministers over the past one and a half or two weeks, I specifically indicated this. We talked about the war, of course. We have also talked about full-scale sanctions. I didn't talk about planes in those conversations. We have talked in full terms about sanctions. That is where I made the request to help. But I just said that some of those things didn't become topical until later. See that example of Abramovich. I'm just gonna go after that. So I'll make sure we get back in touch with the three islands in the short term. The three countries, I must say. Of course, it applies to all six islands, but three have different status than the other three. So I will. I will also make sure that in next week's letter we look not only at the ships, but also at the aircraft. I will agree with the Minister of IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u77	That's nice. Can the Minister not therefore rule out the fact that aircraft of oligarchs are currently based in parts of our Kingdom in order to avoid sanctions in the Netherlands or other NATO or European countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u78	I find it very complicated at all on this dossier to rule out anything for now and for all eternity or in absolute terms, but I do feel called. When Mr Ceder asked the question, I thought: "Good question! What time is it there? What can we do about that relatively acutely?" I just think it's a fair question, so I'd like to sort it out myself. And you bet your ass the Minister of IenW wants it sorted out, too. We were talking about the ports earlier this week. He's very proactive in that, too. He's constantly looking at what he can do. I refer to the previous state of affairs with regard to the closure of airspace. He was also far ahead of many other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u79	So you'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u80	Yeah, I'll get back to that in the letter next week. I have also heard Mr Ceder quite clearly that he not only wants an overview, but also that he would like it to be checked again whether we are looking at boats, aircraft and possibly other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u81	I propose that I give the floor only to Mr Sjoerdsma and that we close the debate, because the Minister has been here for a very long time. We agreed that there will be information tomorrow and that there will be information next week. I will also give Mrs Agnes Mulder the floor, because she has not yet interrupted. So Mr Sjoerdsma has one question and finally Mrs Agnes Mulder. Of course, we would also like to hear an appreciation of the motions and then close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u82	You say one question, but maybe it'll have to be in half or in threes. I think it is important that we take a moment to see how seriously the cabinet should take some of the wishes of the Chamber. My group has not been the only group, but it has been a fairly persistent group in naming Putin's dangers since 2013, since the disastrous year of Friendship in the Netherlands-Russia. We have always warned against this. Last June, so in 2021, a motion was adopted in this Chamber calling for personal sanctions against Putin and the cabal around Putin. That motion has been passed. Then my question to this Minister is as follows. What was the government's expectation when it came to the intention of the Chamber at the time? There was no European consensus yet, so that motion could not yet be implemented. But there was a very clear momentum in this Chamber that we had to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u83	I really should check that out. It is right that Mr Sjoerdsma should ask for that, but if I really want to give a sufficiently well-founded answer to that, I should really check it with me at the Ministry. But I should check with others, too, because I don't have that ready right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u84	Thank you. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u85	That brings me to wise men is rude colleague Van der Plas. When these sanctions were adopted, the Van der Plas motion, which said: now map the possessions of Russian oligarchs in the Netherlands. This was early February, before the war. That was once again a clear wish of this House of Representatives; these people must not get away with it. When I read the letter, and this is also the area of foreign affairs, I do not see what happened there. That brings me to my third point. I'll just add that so I don't use any more interruptions. Also my question to close the gaps in the Sanction Act, a motion from last week, I do not see again. I really want to emphasise here and tonight that it is a long-standing frustration for me, not at this point, but just at Putin. We have to do those things. Not if the D66 group wants to, but if the Chamber wants to. The Chamber has now wanted it three times, and I would really hope that tomorrow, after the Council of Ministers, we can also make it clear that this is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u86	I will take those first two questions in a letter next week, because I really want to do that with care, including with colleagues. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma on these sanctions and sanctions legislation. I have not had the opportunity today to check how far we have progressed with the arrangements for tomorrow's Council of Ministers. By the way, we choose not to make a whole legislative change there, because that means that you lose a lot of time potentially. If you change an underlying arrangement, you can do it faster. If it's okay, we're on course to talk about it tomorrow. But I want to check, because I've done all kinds of things today, but I haven't been concerned with preparing for tomorrow's Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u88	First of all, thank you for this letter. I also found him very enlightening. I would also like to thank you for the many commitments made to my fellow Members. I think that was good and necessary. This morning Zelensky talked about adopting a village or city...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u89	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u90	I had asked questions about that, so I think: before it stays down... I found that one of the good points from Zelensky's speech and that's what we're here for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u91	There's one more question here for me to answer, and that's exactly this one. It is also in Mr Kuzu's motion. I do not see Mr Kuzu in the Chamber anymore, but let me respond immediately to that motion. It's the motion in part No. 53. I like that idea, and its symbolism, very much. So I have a positive basic attitude to do something like that. In due course, I would really like to explore what is most effective. That is what I would like to do with the European Union, together with Ukraine. What good is that going to do the most? But the thought that you're doing something for one particular place, I find symbolism attractive. That does not at all rule out the possibility that there may also be cities that say that we do. So I'd like to continue with that thought. I can get ahead of myself. The motion on this subject, which goes in the same direction as Mrs Mulder's statement, I would also like to give a ruling on Chambers. But unfortunately, we're not finished with the war yet. We're not even at a truce yet, so it's gonna be a while before we can start filling this out. However, if we are a lot further and we are going to implement this, then we have to do it in the way that helps most. If this is it, I think the Netherlands should make a commitment. If we can do something else that Ukraine has more to do, then we must choose to do so. I think we should be pragmatic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u92	The motion in part No. 53 by Mr Kuzu, does he therefore have a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u93	Yeah, with this dress.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u94	Last week Mr Mustafa Amhaouch brought in on behalf of our party that we would also like to see a broader marshall plan. I have a specific question about that. So you have to think about that early. How would you like to do that together with Ukraine, as well as others? Can we, for example, make available the knowledge of our National Real Estate Company and our National Building Master? They all have a lot of knowledge. Can we make that knowledge available to the reconstruction of Ukraine? I know, it's all for later. But hope is also important. People need to know that they're not alone when it's hopefully for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u95	In general terms, I myself find this notion of a European plan, or a European/North American plan in the tradition of the Marshall Plan, a very interesting idea. And I would like to see even more countries than those of Europe and North America participating. This Marshall Plan has not only effectively helped a great deal, but has also gained enormous symbolic value for the generation that had to rebuild the Netherlands at that time. That's something I find very interesting myself. I would prefer to do that much wider than just with the Netherlands, because we really are of a different size compared to what the United States could do at the time. I would therefore like to further develop that idea. I would also like to discuss it with European colleagues and others. I find the symbolism and the title very attractive at all. I would also like to ask at a later date if the Government architect would like to contribute to this. But if only we could already think about how we're going to help. That is my main comment on that motion. Unfortunately, we are far from there. I find the symbolism attractive and I see that many in the Chamber, like the Cabinet, feel the need to express the desire to contribute to reconstruction in the near future. That's how I wanted to interpret the motion. I'm very much in favour of that. I find a marshal's plan a very attractive one, because we all know intuitively what it means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u96	There are a number of Members who have not yet asked a question, so I will give them the opportunity to do so. Firstly, Mr Dassen van Volt and then Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u97	We have talked a lot about sanctions now, and mostly about the Russians, but Zelensky........................................................................................................................................................ People can't get out of the shelters right now because they're just being bombed. I had asked a few more questions about what the Netherlands can do about it. Among other things, I asked a question about Wings For Aid, a programme co-founded by the Chamber in 2015. That can send drones in conflict zones or natural disasters to cover the last 200 kilometres. I was wondering if the Minister could answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u98	I have to say quite frankly that this has fallen off the wagon for all the things I had to figure out. I'm just thinking out loud. I find the thought in itself attractive. You have to be extremely careful what kind of places your drones are going to fly, because they are being used especially for other things at the moment. So I'd be happy to take a look at that suggestion. Let me take him in the next letter after tomorrow's. Then I can give you a more layered answer. We'll see if we can do it at all. I get the idea on my own, but I just don't know if you're actually helping people with that. That is what we would prefer to organise at European level. That is, moreover, even more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u99	Very briefly. It is nice that the Minister wants to look at it, but we are talking about a situation where people need emergency aid now and not in a few days or next week. Especially in cities such as Marioepol, the situations are extremely poignant. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can come back to that tomorrow or at least find out. Precisely drones may be able to help send certain goods to those remote places right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u100	I'd like to see if that's possible, but I'd also like to give a full answer. If that goes together, I'll do it tomorrow. I would simply like to take away the idea that the people who are in this terrible situation, such as in Marioepol, are dependent on a decision by the Dutch cabinet regarding drones. Then we really put on too big pants. We can contribute to it. We do so in all kinds of ways, including through Humanitarian Aid, but it is, fortunately, not only dependent on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u101	Also on the humanitarian trail. It is good that, in addition to proper attention to sanctions, we also pay attention to humanitarian aid. We are getting signals from Dutch aid organisations that it is sometimes difficult to put that aid into practice there, actually because of bureaucratic obstacles on the Ukrainian side. Due to the state of emergency it is difficult to get a registration, which you need to open a bank account again, to pay payroll tax for Ukrainian staff. Is the Minister aware of these signals? Would he like to pick this up and see what we can do to remove these bureaucratic obstacles?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u102	Of course, I'd like to take a look at it. Of course, you'd like to remove those kind of barriers. The problem is, of course, that there is a war going on there that has made all kinds of other things a third, fourth, fifth, sixth priority. I also regularly offer my own help. I also regularly ask what is appreciated. I always put in addition that it is of course okay if that is nothing but a conversation. The last thing I want to do is to get in the way and create work with our good intentions, while that time should go on with other things. But I think it is a very good suggestion, so I'm going to see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u103	Thank you for that commitment. I'll hear about that, of course. Once again, given the war situation in Ukraine, I would imagine that the Dutch authorities would say: let us do part of the review that you would normally do. On that basis, it would be easier to get through. I'd like the Minister to report on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u104	The latter is also a creative thought, by the way. It must have all kinds of implications, just in terms of language and getting in touch with those people. Let's face it, a lot of the people out there are gone. I think 5 million women and children are gone by now. Many of the men are directly or indirectly defending the country. At the same time, I understand the question, so I'm going to take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u105	Thank you. Then there are a number of motions that still need to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u106	The first motion, the motion in part No. 46 is about the acute freeze and confiscate where possible. With this operative part, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. If the operative part would be changed to "where possible to freeze acutely" and the confiscating would go out, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. However, we cannot confiscate property.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u107	I don't believe what I'm hearing. We have just received a letter of 25 sides, in which the cabinet wants to show that it does comply with and enforce the sanctions that the cabinet itself wants. Then, together with Mr Klaver, I have a motion that says 'take care of those sanctions' and then the Minister says: no, I must advise against that. What the hell have we been doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u108	I'm sorry, but I really need to be precise. At all times in the debate I have said that confiscating and taking away is something you need a legal title for. It also says: to move on acutely. Please, that's now. "Now to move on to freezing." There are a lot of things we've already done. We'll do as much as we can. In its present form, it states that we must move into it acutely and confiscate where possible. I just indicated that if we were to make sure that we do that acutely where possible, I could give that motion judgment Chamber. But I cannot and will not ignore the legal hurdle that we cannot confiscate property.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u109	Also very precise. It says, "Wherever possible confiscate." Of course, that "acute" is there, because that war has been going on for 36 days. Sanctions have been in place for weeks, months ago, but we have to see together this evening that the cabinet has done things, but not enough. Apparently, the cabinet doesn't intend to jump into action tomorrow either. That's the spirit of that motion. I would advise the Minister to think again, because this Chamber has informed you of the following: we want the sanctions to be enforced from now on, which is far too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u110	I have to refer to what I have just said with regard to confiscating. The suggestion that comes from "where possible confiscate" sounds like: go ahead, cabinet. Ownership is one of the things that we take very seriously in this country. You could say, "I'm still putting all kinds of qualifications into it." From Mrs Ploumen, however, I need her to interpret with me what we mean by 'accuut freezing' in the same way. We will then have to do "where possible." "Actually" is not now. We've already done a lot, but we're going on and on. For confiscating property we need a legal title in the Netherlands. That's important to say. You can't confiscate goods on the basis of the Sanction Act. You can't take property from anyone on the basis of the Sanction Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u111	Thank you. That's what you said. I'm just gonna check on Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u112	This is acute, and I believe that the whole Chamber and the coordinating minister agree that this should be done. Those sanctions were not issued yesterday, but at least 36 days ago. Then it's about confiscating. The Minister says that confiscating is simply not legally possible. We can think differently about that. Then let's say, "make it possible to confiscate." That's my proposal. I'll put it in writing. Then I very much hope that the Minister can just say: "Dear Chamber, dear Dutchmen, dear Ukrainians, we simply agree on this. We're gonna take care of these people. We're going to confiscate their possessions wherever we can. We should have maintained these sanctions a long time ago, but we are going to do it acutely."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u113	Thank you. What's your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u114	What I find uncomfortable is that Mrs Ploumen seems to suggest accepting the motion in this form as if the debate had not taken place. I think I should do this clean. Even when I say "in possible cases," it is simply that the Sanction Act does not allow for expropriation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u115	So your appreciation remains the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u116	Yes, unless Mrs Ploumen says she's willing to change the operative part in a different way. But now it says, "Wherever possible, acute."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u117	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u118	As far as confiscating is concerned, there must be a legal title. I can't get around that. I've been given legal advice on that. Would Mrs Ploumen and Mr Klaver say that they are modifying the operative part of the motion along that line, then I can give this judgment Chamber. But if I don't, I can't take that horde.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u119	We're going to the motion in part no. 47.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u120	Then the motion to part No. 47. It was filed last week, too. Then she was dissuaded. The Prime Minister has indicated that he wants to wait and see the consultations that are currently taking place in Europe on this issue. I think it is important for us to preserve European unity. The Prime Minister must have said the same thing. I could suggest to Mr Sjoerdsma that the motion be retained. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u121	The Prime Minister's appreciation wasn't there, because that motion wasn't there. Aid to make a country a candidate country is simply reserved for a country. That is an independent assessment of the Netherlands. If the Minister does not advise, I ask him what reasons he has on the basis of the Treaty. That is the basis on which it is determined whether or not countries can become candidate countries. What reasons does he have to be against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u122	The Prime Minister has repeatedly explicitly told the Chamber that we would like to draw Ukraine much closer to the European family. In itself, we understand very well the question of candidate membership. Subsequently, a very large group of countries, including the Netherlands, asked the Commission to develop variants. Work out variants of what is sensible in such a unique situation, in which on the one hand we do not want to refuse, but on the other hand we also have all kinds of discussions with candidate countries. Commission, come up with variants, come up with solutions, so that we can then resume the debate in our national parliaments. I think that's a sensible line from the cabinet. I would also like to give the European Commission that opportunity. Of course, we'd be happy to discuss those variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u123	The motion in part No. 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u124	On the motion in part No. 48 has been in official contact. I understand that there has been a debate this week and that there will be a two-minute debate next week. Could I ask Mr Klaver, Mrs Piri and Mrs Ploumen to bring Mr Jetten to that two-minute debate next week with a final appreciation? I understand there was a debate earlier this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u125	Every moment counts. The motion was tabled this afternoon. This also applies to the fact that there could have been contact with the Ministry. We're just gonna put the motion to the vote. Tuesday is the vote, so even if it takes a little longer to get an appreciation, that is possible. This is what we think should be done. In my opinion, the majority of the Chamber thinks so, so she's just gonna vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u126	Is it possible to receive an appreciation before the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u127	I will ask Mr Jetten. He asked me to do the official thing. I see Mr Klaver walking back to the microphone again, but I will ask Mr Jetten to come up with an appreciation. His request was official to me to include it in the two-minute debate. I think that's Tuesday, but maybe I'm wrong. I understand that Mr Klaver does not want to wait for that. That's up to him. I will share that signal with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u128	It's nice when the Chamber gets an appreciation for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u129	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u130	Yes. Then the motion to part No. Forty-nine by Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u131	I'd like to give him a room for judgment. Then I remain in line with what I promised Mr Dassen earlier in the debate. The motion in part No. I must dissuade Mrs Teunissen from 52. All options for additional sanctions are on the table. As the Netherlands, we have always said that we do not want to rule anything out. However, we think it is crucial that we continue to do so in a European context, also because our position in this regard is actually easier compared to some other European Member States. It is easier done from the Netherlands than from some other European Member States. This is part of consultation, in which oil is easier than gas again, because that market is simply much less liquid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u132	The Minister rightly says that it is easier for the Netherlands than for other countries. I do not see why we can work together both at European level and as the Netherlands cannot be at the forefront of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u133	We believe that European unity is really important here. Moreover, we are also committed to national efforts to reduce dependence as quickly as possible. I believe that this was also discussed extensively with the cabinet earlier this week. At the moment, we must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u134	Thank you. I would like to look at Mrs Agnes Mulder, who I think has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u135	This afternoon we spoke to Minister Ollongren of Defence. I asked her how the international aid organisations are now doing. Of course, that was not entirely on her territory, so she suggested that perhaps an answer could be found tonight, and otherwise perhaps at the Foreign Affairs Council at the beginning of next week. We can see it's sticking. Of course, that can be due to all kinds of things. We are curious to see if we can put any further pressure on this, so that the people there will be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u136	I'll answer that question. I have not been told that that question was put to Minister Ollongren. I think I was out of the room for a while. I will look into exactly how Mrs Mulder formulated her question, so that she does not have to repeat it here, and on the basis of the Minutes, I will provide an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u137	Thank you. That concludes the debate. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his comprehensive reply and for the information that has come to the Chamber. I would like to thank the speakers in the Chamber and those who have followed the debate at another time. Everything's gonna end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u138	It seems that my question cannot be answered in this second period. My question was about Article 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u139	I didn't get a piece. In my opinion, when Mr Klaver insisted, I said that there would be a letter tomorrow and that I would deal with several things, including this particular point. He also asked about the date of Article 67. I said that I was hoping I could, because I just tried to move a lot of things to next week. I think that's a more realistic deadline, but I would try to answer this particular question tomorrow, plus one or two of Mr Omtzig's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u140	I understand the confusion, because you had also indicated that it might still be possible in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u141	Yes. But then Mr. Klaver made the list very long, because there were a few more things and also Mr. Omtzigt came up with a few things. I'd like to answer them all tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u142	Tomorrow's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u143	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-14.u144	That really brings us to the end of this debate. Thanks again to the Minister, the spokesmen and the people who followed the debate.
