ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many thanks also to the members of this Chamber for the questions and comments. I've been asked a few short questions. I would like to say that on behalf of other ministers I will also take up a number of issues, as good and as bad as that goes. I will try to answer about the rentals, insulation, public transport and the category others. I would like to say something general about the purchasing power regime, the budget right, the general budget and the support to businesses, including on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Those were a bit of the cubes, as already mentioned by the Minister for Social Affairs. It's the first time I've spoken in this term. That is why, repeating the words of the Minister of Social Affairs, I would like to say how the terrible war in Ukraine is primarily a tragedy for the Ukrainians themselves and the millions of people internally displaced in their country, who live in fear and are traumatized, but also for those who have been able to flee the country, in search of a safe place. The war has a clear impact on the Dutch economy and purchasing power. That's a derivative of that. It has often been said: we too will pay a price for the aggression from Russia in Ukraine. We have seen this, among other things, in the rising inflation rates, but not just that. These are caused, in particular, by rising energy prices and, as we increasingly see, by staggering supply and interruptions in the production chains due to the robust sanction packages put in place by the European Union and NATO's actions. And rightly so. The sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus are intended to stop Putin, but they touch us. Many Dutch people understand that this is a price that we must and want to pay, for our freedom, security and democracy. There is still a lot of uncertainty about the consequences. Then I'm talking about long-term consequences. The cabinet takes into account several scenarios. We have seen in recent credit transfers and CPB estimates that a negative scenario can cause a short-term recession. For example, in a negative scenario of De Nederlandsche Bank, inflation rises to 9.5%. It's possible. This morning, the CPB, the Central Planning Bureau, published a new study on the economic consequences for the Netherlands of the current trade sanctions against Russia and also of a possible closure of the gas and oil supply from Russia to Europe. Through value chains, the Netherlands is more connected to imports of Russian gas than other European countries. A lot's insecure. So it is quite possible that we may end up in very severe economic weather. This Chamber has been very well informed about this. The rising energy prices are hitting many households very hard in the wallet, especially those with a small income. It's been appointed many times. I therefore think it is very good that Mrs van der Plas, for example, refers to the mental and psychological stress and the health consequences that people may experience from the pure fear of whether they can still survive and whether the blame they may already have is going to increase. I think it is important that attention should be paid to this. I also hope that you will have noticed this from the answer given by the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr President, that the government's full attention has been focused on the options for rapid action. This has resulted in the purchasing power package. When we discussed the Start note for the first time, that was on the eve of the raid in Ukraine. Mr Omtzig referred to this recently. I believe that no one, except the American intelligence services who spoke publicly, could have feared that the raid would take place and that the war would be waged in such a way, with such disruption and displacement of the Ukrainians themselves. It is now an exceptional situation. The uncertainty for households in the Netherlands is high. The cabinet has chosen, as explained in detail, to compile, exceptionally, a purchasing power package for the current year. We do this because households get into acute problems or may get into trouble because of the higher energy bill. As Minister for Finance, of course, I say that this package is covered, so that the account is not transferred to future generations. But it is also important that this is my expensive and perhaps sober duty to point out that it is precisely in these times, when we thought we were coming out of the corona crisis, that the treasury should again be taken care of and that budgetary discipline should be respected. We're all losing prosperity. Unfortunately, a lot of people are getting worse. I hope for the time being. We cannot dampen the consequences for everyone without at the expense of future generations. Let me make a comment on the budgetary rules. I'm gonna finish this block, Madam President. Mr Stoffer asked whether the cabinet intended to respect the budgetary rules in the spring decision-making process. Mr Nijboer also rightly pointed out the importance of a careful budgetary policy. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer and Mr Stoffer that budgetary policy should benefit from a clear process and clear rules. As a cabinet, we have therefore included these rules in the coalition agreement and in the Start note. That is why I have always stressed that this was before the invasion of Ukraine in order to maintain a single decision-making moment and to maintain the financial frameworks, also because we have frequently, forcefully but rightly, deviated from those rules in the corona period. You can assume that the rules and frameworks are at the heart of the forthcoming negotiations in the cabinet after that, of course, with you on the budget. With Mr Stoffer, I am pleased that the cabinet ensures that the bill is not passed on to future generations. But I must also acknowledge that in this exceptional case, where higher gas benefits through the higher gas price were accompanied by major purchasing power problems, the cabinet once considered this aspect to be more important than the letter of the budgetary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	Two months ago, this cabinet said that the government agreement also states that the purchasing power picture must be proportionate and positive for everyone. Now, two months later, everyone turns out to be heavy through the ice and we see a very negative purchasing power picture. This minister says everyone's gonna feel it, everybody's gonna feel it, that's the honest story. But who isn't getting poorer? Who benefits from high gas prices? That's this minister. It covers this purchasing power package with windfall gains in gas revenues. In other words, this minister takes advantage of the high gas price and thus retains money. She's actually giving that money back to the people as compensation for that high bill. A cigar from your own box. I told you on my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	So this minister shouldn't pretend to be making a gesture. She just gives the population what she brings in extra because of the high gas price. And then I don't even talk about VAT, because the VAT on petrol and on gas also provides windfalls and extra revenue. So you're just making $10 billion in extra tax revenue, and you're giving back $6 billion. That's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	This minister, personally, does not deserve anything extra. Just for the record. Perhaps this falls under the category of "personal fact." The state budget, the state treasury, has unhappily, I would say, received a lot of extra revenue from this war. From this point of view, from the point of view of urgency, from the social call to act quickly, to which the Court has rightly emphasized, and at the same time from the interest of making the decision covering and not letting it go into the balance, we have chosen to cover it through the higher gas price. It is, of course, the raising of revenue that we actually have to book in. What I find more interesting, and what I do not get from Mr Van Dijck's remark, is whether he is satisfied with the decision or whether he would have preferred an uncovered purchasing power package. I don't know what the suggestion is. It's correct: the State didn't plan it. But, as you also know, we always look at the windfalls and the setbacks in the spring decision-making process. We'll draw up the bill with each other and see what we can do. Only now we have brought that moment forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	What matters to me is that there is talk of the former Minister of SoZaWe have said this twenty times about cover, cover, cover, cover. But the cover is the windfall, the cover is the cigar out of your own box, the cover is what people at home pay more at the gas price, at the VAT at the pump and you name it. That's your cover. If I ask the Minister what is the cover for the 75 billion extra this cabinet spends in this cabinet period and what is the cover for the 60 billion for climate and nitrogen, then she has no cover for that either. The excuse to hide behind cover, while the situation with many families is dire because they can no longer pay their bills, I find it so weak that I have almost no words for it. So don't touch me with cover. People just need to be compensated. They have no fault for the fact that the gas price is so high. They're gonna turn in a hell of a lot now, every month. There's gonna be queues at the Food Bank. And this minister is talking about cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	Of course, I started the war in Ukraine and its consequences. The Minister for Social Affairs has explained in detail what choices we have made and how we have tried to mitigate the consequences for those with a minimum of living, the minimum, but also for low and middle incomes. I don't think you heard anyone from the cabinet say that this package deserves a beauty prize. Far from it. We have said: speed and as focused as possible where it can be for those who need it most, and also for other population groups, including low and middle incomes. Is it perfect? No. You won't hear anyone say that. But it is under the circumstances that we felt it was possible. Because you also know that we normally do not take decisions of this kind in an ongoing financial year. We may have got used to it by corona, but this was just a moment to go back to the regular budgetary process and budgetary discipline. "A cigar from its own box" is the words of Mr Van Dijck. I was pleased to hear that Mr Alkaya of the Socialist Party considered part of the package acceptable. It may not be enough, but he indicated that a difficult decision had been taken and that it was about the objective we have with each other: to mitigate the consequences for the Dutch population.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	In my view, the Minister is simply not aware that this is an emergency. This temporary intervention must be carried out in order to prevent people from having sleepless nights, losing their jobs, the economy from going into a deep recession and inflation from increasing. This is an intervention you need to do as a minister. Then you can hide behind all kinds of procedures and behind cover and you name it, but the people at home cannot pay their energy bill, which instead of €150 now is €300. Those people have sleepless nights, they're fighting at home, they can't go to work because the gas is too expensive. As Minister of Finance, therefore, I have waited with this interruption for the Minister of Finance to intervene now and say: listen, it is not going to happen to me that we are going to lose the entire economy by temporarily releasing a few billion dollars to meet the necessary needs, the necessary misery, with the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	You know, this debate has been held before, including in the Upper House. Then you will notice that it is about the importance of meeting the needs. As has already been explained in detail by the Minister for Social Affairs, the Cabinet has considered a number of measures. We didn't take it or we couldn't take it. The essence remained speed, where possible orientation and ultimately the action of today to dampen. Of course, the entire cabinet is aware of that. But I am also aware, together with all my colleagues from the cabinet, that what is called 'the socio-economic quadrangle' with the Minister for Social Affairs is that we will get into even worse weather. And over the corona period, we're out of social buffers. It is also important to see what is still possible and how it can be done. We are now all going into the spring decision-making process, but this is a one-off decision that we have taken. I believe that no one here has suggested that there is still a great deal to be done. I know that Mr Van Dijck from the PVV believes that, for example, there is no need to invest in combating climate change. That is necessary if we are to look at the scientific reports and the consequences of climate change that we are living with. It is also investing in the future economy of the Netherlands. It's looking forward, too. We must go through this crisis together, but everyone, the Minister for Poverty Policy, the Minister for Social Affairs, looks like no other at what it does with the purchasing power of people, especially those who are most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	I've often made proposals in the past that I've covered with extra income, covering expenses with extra income. These proposals have all been dissuaded in the past by the cabinet, because they would be against the rules. Now, even expenditure is covered by future income. I am actually asking the Minister of Finance for two things. What does that mean for future proposals from the Chamber? I think it's a good cover. I think that is possible, but I find it remarkable that if the Chamber does it, it would not be possible, when the Cabinet itself does it. The second is: are all the expected additional natural gas benefits being used for this package? Or is the amount now being used for this additional expenditure only part of the additional revenue that the Minister of Finance expects?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	To the last question, but I would like to confirm that in the second term, the answer is that according to our estimation it was totality. But I have no predictive ability for future gas prices. I'd like to confirm that in second term. With the first point made by Mr Alkaya, he is right. That is why I would like to say that this is an exceptional situation. In fact, the budgetary rules prescribe that, as you know, there is a separation between revenue and expenditure. This time we have chosen to violate that divorce; I use the verb "violent." As far as I am concerned, this cannot be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	That makes it all the more striking that such creative coverage is being chosen at the moment, when I have indicated that you could also make real choices and actually organise solidarity, by saying: we are giving the group that is in trouble now, people who are in poverty a concession, and we are raising that money from the group that can miss it. That is not the kind of choice the cabinet makes, and I am concerned about that. Why does the Cabinet run away from that kind of real choice? Why choose such creative coverage, when in the first term we also had to find out with the Minister of Social Affairs that we are not raising enough money to really provide adequate compensation for the people who are in trouble? Is it not possible to actually organise solidarity and give the people who are in trouble a little more money?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	I know Mr Alkaya from other debates, and I have always appreciated the importance of solidarity, whether in my own country or internationally. However, my understanding of the question put by Mr Alkaya is different. In the case of a solidarity levy, I am thinking, quite frankly, of a change in, for example, the Tax Plan. I suppose that's what he means. Mr Van Rij will come back to this, but the cabinet will be working on a number of changes within the Tax Plan this year. I think Mr Alkaya means something more fundamental, which is not in the coalition agreement. And that is a fundamental revision and a redistribution in a much more radical way. That's how I understand what he's saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Alkaya, and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	Finally, Mr President. I have indeed asked to take this into account in the Tax Plan or in the Spring Note. In any case, we need to look at a more structural solidarity levy, which would also give us the opportunity to do some extra energy poverty now. That's the question I asked the cabinet. If that question cannot be answered now, I would like to hear the answer from the Spring Note or from the Tax Plan. My group would like to see a more fundamental discussion on this. Hence, for example, my question in the first term about getting a more precise picture of energy poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	Yes. The Minister nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yes. Secondly, Mr Van Rij will come back to this. But together we will express this further, either in a letter or in the spring note. I do not want to suggest that it will all be positive, but I agree with Mr Alkaya that this calls for even more serious reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	I would like to have a brief reflection from the Minister on the following question. Last year we had 4.8% economic growth. In doing so, we have made up for the economic setback of 2020. Lots of people work. There's more people working than ever. But now prices are rising and 750,000 to 1 million people are actually in trouble in no time. How is that even possible? These are people who work, too. They are sometimes at the social minimum, but there are also people who are above the social minimum. What does this say? How is that possible? What is the Minister's reflection on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u21	The word "reflection" always raises the question of whether I have had enough time to think about this. But I take that word as I know it from Mr Azarkan. The fact that many people are relatively quickly possible in a vulnerable position, of course, tells us all a lot. That is the first point. The second point arises from the coalition agreement. We have deliberately created the post of Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation, in order to make much more work out of it. Goals have been set. The Minister for Social Affairs has also explained this. How is it possible? Perhaps that is a rhetorical question from Mr Azarkan. It depends, of course, on how you look at it. I am not going to reply on behalf of Mr Azarkan. I think we still need to take a number of steps in the area of inequality of opportunity. That is what we do about the width of all areas. As far as I am concerned, we can take a lot of steps if we can implement the coalition agreement and speed it up, through education, through childcare, through participation and participation in employment. But I think we should all be very concerned about the consequences of this crisis and how it might put us at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Azarkan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u23	The crisis is a small explanation for this. Because before the crisis, 400,000 children were already living in poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u24	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u25	I'm a little different from the Minister myself. In fact, I find it scandalous that we need a minister for Poverty in a prosperous country like the Netherlands. So what do I think we should do? We need to ensure that people who work and those who are at the minimum social level reach a level where they can also bear a setback of perhaps €1,000. If we live in a society in which perhaps 1 million people end up in a crisis with a fall of €1,500, there is something macroeconomically wrong. If that's the case, then we have to stick these patches every time. Because if prices are going to go through now, we might have to have another conversation with each other in six weeks, because a larger group of people will get into trouble. I am concerned about that fundamental point. From a finance minister, I expect her to think about these macroeconomic factors as well. Otherwise, it will remain a matter of redistributing poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u26	Definitely. Of course, we do that in the breadth of the cabinet, in the quadrilateral, and we do that at all times, of course. But you are right: in a prosperous country like the Netherlands, we should not be dealing with working poor people, who sometimes have two jobs. That reminds me of the situation in many other countries. In the past, we have always said: 'Good, thank God we are not in this condition.' But it's the same with us. That is precisely why the cabinet wants to make extra work of this. That is what we want to do with targeted measures through the Minister for Poverty Policy, or through her and through her policies. And we are doing it through the Minister for Social Affairs, but also, of course, through the Minister for Economic Affairs. After all, we also need to improve the employment process. Of course, we are also looking at wages and the increase in the statutory minimum wage. Many measures are proposed by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u27	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u28	Under this category, Mr Nijboer and Mr Stoffer asked about the Court's budget law with regard to the measures on the energy surcharge and the reduction of excise duties. As you know, the two chambers were informed by letter of 15 March by the Minister of Poverty Policy and Participation of the proposed legislative amendment to the Single Energy Supplement Bill. I also understand very well that, in response to this, the Chamber says: nice this information, but we should normally have known that earlier. We heard right. As a result of the sharp increase in energy bills, there are low-income households in acute finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u29	Of course, this is pretty much bullshit, but that's not so bad. I mean, if the government announces in December that it will compensate €200, submit a bill in March and then implement it at that time, we can vote against as a Chamber in May, but then the money has already been spent on the municipalities. You can say that you are going to hold that in the municipalities, but again, please do me a favor, just call the President of the General Court: this is not computable and legitimate. You have a decision to make here. We also just had a discussion with the Minister of Social Affairs. There is also an implementation problem here. That's with the €800 and less in the excise duties. That's doable. But these €800 measures are really quite fundamental measures. This isn't right. If the Minister of Finance does not realize that, I really ask her to talk to Mr Visser, the President of the Court of Auditors. And two...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u30	Perhaps it would be useful if the Minister responded first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u31	I think the word "conscious" is a big word. We have just said that we have fully realised that the Chamber is not satisfied with this and that we always want to respect the budget law of the House of Representatives and, of course, the First Chamber. We have explained the circumstances in which we thought we were doing the right thing, bearing in mind all the steps that remain to be taken. I take this criticism of Mr Omtzig to heart, of course. This applies to the whole cabinet, and we are not looking away from it either. We have tried to explain in the explanation the urgency of helping people and the fact that the policy decision has, of course, been taken exceptionally. I also hear very clearly that Mr Omtzigt says that this should not be repeated in this way, but that is also our own policy. I hope it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u32	This decision was taken as early as December. So there really was an opportunity between December and March, if the cabinet wanted to, to discuss what the measure looks like. The government could have quietly written a letter in the sense of: we intend to do so. I understand that there is still the material budget law that puts you in a bit of a position, but we now have the situation that we were allowed to pay out last week and that we are still waiting for answers over the next few days about who gets it. You can't do that. But my question in the first term was another one. If the war were to end now and energy prices would go down a bit, I think this was the last package we need this year. If the DNB prediction of 9.5% becomes true, people will get even harder during this year. People will lose real 6%, 7% or 8% purchasing power, pensions will be frozen and benefits will not rise sufficiently. It's gonna take more than that. I asked the government in the first term if any thought had been given to that plan. I don't need to see all the memos. So I do not need to know when exactly what is happening, but will the cabinet not be surprised again, which means that it will have to take a measure within a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you. A clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u34	I think Mr Omtzigt is right to share the analysis, the concerns. He asked if the cabinet is already thinking about worst-case scenarios, about the worst-case scenarios. Yeah, that's what we started. But there's no memo and no plan yet. The reflection process has started in the socio-economic quadrangle and we are spreading it in other ways within the cabinet because of the urgency and the need to consider it widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u35	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u36	No, Mr. Chairman, I have to ask you about the energy... or else I'll be through my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u38	That's what I suspected. That's the downside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u39	If you'll just ask a quick question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u40	No, I'm good. This is gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u41	No? Okay. Then Mr Stoffer, SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u42	The Minister replied in detail. It also indicated how the measures would be implemented in this way. I wonder if the cabinet has considered having emergency legislation passed by the Chambers before implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u43	With regard to emergency legislation in the area of the Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation, I would like to confirm this in the second term. I don't have that information. And Mr Van Rij will explain his area of activity in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u44	I'm asking the question... What's past is past. Whether you fully agree on the content is number two. But I think everyone, from the left to the right, is aware that we need to do something to meet the low incomes, but also the low middle incomes. It's not about the content. I really care about the procedure. I would like to see this done in the second term; perhaps it will be possible next week to answer the question of whether it has been considered and what steps have been taken. I am particularly concerned about the future. I understand it's the very last time this happens, though I wonder. I'd like to see the scenarios for when you don't do it as a cabinet and when you do. Personally, I have the impression that it could have been and that we would have been very fond of it, as Mr Nijboer pointed out from the PvdA, to do so very quickly. We can. So, especially with regard to the future, I would like to see that guarantee. In that light, I would also like the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u45	I consider this to be a question that has been asked widely to the cabinet. It happens to be the field of action of the Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation and, of course, that of the Secretary of State. But I take the question widely. I, or the Minister of SZW, will answer the question in the second term. And of course also the appeal, and I quote Lubbers: let this be of the category "for once but never again." He was a Catholic prime minister. You will be pleased, I say to Mr Stoffer. Mr Van Rij is calling me something. Yeah, I know that. Mr Stoffer and I often have religious debates. In any case, we take this very much to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u46	A personal fact from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u47	I like reformed prime ministers, like Balkenende and all, but Lubbers is very much appreciated. Let me add that to that. He was an example of my childhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u48	There you go. Thank you, Mr Stoffer. On behalf of the CDA, I'd just like to add. Then I had a question from Mr Jansen, but there is no answer. His question was actually: is the cabinet prepared to radically reduce taxes for the benefit of the climate fund? I have just said that we are combating climate change and that we consider the investments we make, including in the coalition agreement, to be important. Moreover, we sometimes notice in the debates with both Chambers that the proposed alternative coverage cannot always count on a majority. Mr Jansen is not here, but this aside. Then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u49	By the way, Mr Jansen has signed off on account of private circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u50	Oh, excuse me. No, no, no. It is also absolutely not a criticism. It's more like I wanted to answer his question. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr Ephraim, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Dijk. They asked about the impact of high energy prices on companies, for example in greenhouse horticulture. Is the cabinet in conversation with affected sectors? Are measures being considered? It has also been asked whether bankruptcy and economic damage can be prevented. And how do companies get extra incentives to make them more sustainable? This is, of course, particularly the area of activity of the Ministry of EZK. Minister Adriaansens and her team have regular conversations. I think she explained that again this morning. She's holding the finger on the wrist. It also takes into account, of course, the scenarios about the great uncertainty that the CPB and De Nederlandsche Bank have shared. At the moment there are two estimates, but it's really still looking coffee-diving, I'm afraid. It seems that the effects on the Dutch economy as a whole are still relatively limited. I'll look through the Economic Affairs lens. But it's always very relative when it doesn't affect you. If you happen to have a company that is badly affected by these circumstances and by the war, "relatively limited" is not an expression you would like to hear. We understand this, of course, but the Economic Affairs Committee does not consider that broad sectoral support is currently being discussed. The conversations are continuing. Furthermore, in order to focus on sustainability, the government has used the climate fund through the coalition agreement to enable a wide range of measures. This is intended to make the Dutch economy more sustainable and, of course, to reduce our gas dependence, especially from Russia, as quickly as possible. In this case, these are also geopolitical and economic reasons. We are talking about a tailor-made package. That's about the big shots. There is money for innovation in SMEs. At the moment, compensating companies for high gas prices for companies is not in line with the government. The stakes are still sustainable. Furthermore, there are many grants available through the RVO, for example in the area of guarantee and corporate financing. There's just that offer. Unfortunately, it's a repeat. Everyone, almost all sectors, is suffering from higher energy prices, but at the moment it is estimated that the rise in import prices is one of the entrepreneurial risks. In part, companies can pass this on to higher prices. Of course, we already see this in consumer prices. There are also companies that have this advantage, because they have already covered the risk. As I said, the cabinet is following the situation closely. It will be reviewed whether an appropriate response is necessary. Then there were a number of questions about the isolation of rental homes and public transport. I do not know whether the questions had been raised in part this morning. You can imagine that I do not look at this issue every day from the Treasury. We checked with the minister for VRO. The question had already been asked by Mr Klaver, Mr Nijboer, Mr Grinwis and Mr Dassen: why are the rents not reduced or frozen for households living in a draft house? What's being done for the sitting tenants? With Aedes, the housing corporations, it is agreed to take appropriate measures to compensate tenants in a corporation house with E-, F- or G-label through the rental price. The implementation of these measures will include the Minister for VRO in the performance agreements he wants to make before the summer, not now, with Aedes, the VNG, the IPO and the Housing Union. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that landlords make rental homes with poor insulation more sustainable because of the incentive of standardisation and other positive incentives. Mr. Klaver knows that. Honestly, I don't have any details on what these positive incentives are anymore. I'll have to say that. The Minister for VRO will return to this in his programme Acceleration sustainable environment built. As of 1 April, so very soon, a subsidy scheme will be opened up for the sustainability of private housing. In addition, municipalities are already in the process of implementing the 150 million out of the first energy poverty package to target mainly tenants and vulnerable households and to support them with the deployment of energy coaches, small measures and other actions. Apparently, a rent freeze or a rent reduction would not have been technically possible in the current context. That's what we've been advised to do. That is, of course, the most important point. I think that has already been explained by the Minister for Social Affairs. The freezing of the rent of a house with a bad energy label, for example, has a limited effect in favour of the tenant. It's more beneficial to high-income tenants. If that is desirable and if that further clarifies the debate, I would like to give you a brief letter from the Minister for VRO, who can go into this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u51	You have a question about this information request, Mr. Klaver?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yes. Then I would like to speak on the second term of this debate. Why are we asking this question in this debate? We are all looking at the Minister of Finance, because this costs a lot of money. But this is a problem for society as a whole. The reason why for the people in rental houses prices are rising is that the landlords are either housing corporations or pawnshops... have simply not done their job and have not isolated them. This requires legislation, but legislation can also go through Parliament as a matter of urgency. You can use it to make sure the rents go down. Then it doesn't have to come from the state treasury, but then it comes from landlords who have just not done their job in recent years. That's why I'm really looking at the Minister of Finance. Not everything needs to be paid by the taxpayer. We can also place risks where they belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u53	The Minister will return to this in writing for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u54	Well, the cabinet. I ask the Minister for VRO to explain this. I think that's appropriate. I hear Mr Klaver very well and I agree that not everything should be borne by the taxpayer. We all did it with love, but the corona measures cost €5,000 per family in the end. That's tax money, too. That was necessary. It helped us through the previous crisis. Of course, we have fewer buffers to go through the current crisis. But I hear his remark very well. Of course, it could also be an appeal to the Minister of VRO to look again at the possibility of doing so in another way. But the letter is good for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u55	No, you're really through your interruptions, Mr. Clover. The Minister said she would pass this on to the minister responsible. The other minister will return to that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr Grinwis asked whether the Minister was open to generating additional funds for insulation and energy-saving measures for the national isolation programme, for example from the climate fund. Apparently there will be another letter from the Minister for VRO, but I will also look at this question as addressed to me. A letter from the Minister for VRO on the elaboration of the National Isolation Programme and the resources that the Cabinet has allocated to it in the coalition agreement will be submitted to the climate agreement committee debate on 6 April. As Mr Grinwis knows, the cabinet has already decided to raise funds so that municipalities can provide households with faster support. Additional resources, if that is the request, are not at issue at the moment, but I think it is important that we make haste with the use of the funds that are already there. Its implementation also raises, of course, a demand, given the lack of labour in many areas. That's important, too. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the threshold for obtaining ISDE subsidies by the two measures was too high. The Cabinet is currently considering options to reduce the threshold experienced by the two measures required by the ISDE scheme. In the letter on the national isolation programme to be sent shortly, the Court will be further informed. I should have done a 'Wouter Koolmees' here, Madam President, because he would say: I am reading for this; it is not a work of his own. But I hope that Mr Van Weyenberg's question has been answered with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u57	Apparently not. Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u58	I was looking for a "Wouter Koolmees" answer, but without it. I'll wait for that letter. The essence, in my opinion, is: is a wider scheme going to help make people more sustainable now that there is also a shortage of people? I really hear stories from people who say: yes, then I won't do anything this year, because I can only do one of the two because of a shortage of people and professionals who can come and do it to me. I am therefore waiting for that letter, but I hope that the cabinet has understood my call for the rule to be extended here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u59	There was another question from Mrs van der Plas on public transport. It was not the purpose of her question, but one observation is that prices have not risen. The car has indeed become more expensive. This, of course, has an impact on people who, in order to get to work, depend on the car and in areas where public transport simply cannot offer the services so regularly. You will receive a detailed reply from the Secretary of State for IenW. Making it temporarily free does not mean that it is free. That will cost many billions a year. The exact costs should still be mapped out. That's what we're happy to do. This is the beginning of an answer to Mrs van der Plas. It may know that in the public transport sector, contracts are concluded by carriers with concession providers which agree prices, which are then fixed for more years. The concession provider is usually a decentralised government or, in the case of the NS, the Government. And the conversation about the price of public transport lies primarily with the concession provider and with the carrier. The cabinet can't just intervene here, if it wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u60	Let's just say that point of fact. I understand the cabinet says, "We're watching that." But I would like to make this point. That is very beautiful when you live in The Hague or in Utrecht and so on. But if, like me, you live in the Veluwe or somewhere else in the country, it doesn't matter. If you're not careful, you're gonna create some sort of dichotomy between town and country. So my question is whether the cabinet wants to include this in the considerations that are going on, because otherwise it will have another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u61	I think I was just beginning to say that I know that in many places in the region public transport is not always so regular, that the service is not always like... I did not mention the Randstad, but it seemed clear to me at deduction that I was talking about other areas where you can get on a train or tram about every fifteen minutes. So that seemed obvious to me. I agree: this division, if there is one, must not be unintentionally strengthened; we must reduce it. But Mrs van der Plas' question was whether it could not be made free of charge. The cabinet will come back to that, but my answer is already... Or rather, it is very difficult to intervene; and free of charge is not free, because that is at the expense of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you. And thank you for the promise that there will be a more detailed answer to that. My question was actually more from the point of view that a lot of people cannot afford the car because the price of petrol is so high, and that it might be a solution for everyone, of course, but perhaps for a large group of people to make it temporarily free of charge. So it wasn't so much about the price of the bus ticket or the train ticket, but more about: can't we just make sure that people can leave the car, because they just can't afford it, and then possibly free with it? And for the climate, of course, that's a win-win. That must be very appealing to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u63	I always appreciate Mrs Van der Plas for her very practical solutions. Only, she can also say from my answer that it is not unwilling, but that it may be impossible. It may be far too expensive, so we need to think carefully about it. And that, in fact, is the commitment in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr Nijboer, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have ten more, but I'll say one, and I'll try to do it briefly. It's about the proportions of the package. The main criticism, of course, is that it is too generic and reaches the highest incomes too much. 2.1 billion is VAT and excise duties. And only 480 million, it's big money, goes to the lowest incomes. My question is: is the cabinet prepared to look into it, to get more money on those lower and middle incomes? We've heard ten alternatives here in the Chamber. I have already put forward four or five of them myself, and colleagues as well. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Or does it say: we have had the criteria and try to push this through; in the Lower House we have a majority and in the Upper Chamber we see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u66	That's a very fair question. I think it has already been explained in detail by the Minister. I think I should use the word "explain" a little less. But it has been appointed by the SZW Minister, what choice we have made and why, and how we look at the package, and, of course, what measures we have considered and not wanted or able to take. It is very often also a question of time-scale; Mr Nijboer knows this like no other. I think that in the second term we should return to the great appeal of this Chamber or in what way there might be something more possible. But as Minister of Finance, I would also like to hear how it is going to be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer and give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday during the debate a number of questions were asked about the composition of the package, and also why or not tax measures were chosen, as well as questions about the substance of these tax measures. First of all, I will explain why we do not propose certain tax measures, so we did not choose to do so. This concerns, in particular, interim adjustments to the energy tax, but also to income tax and also to the surcharges. Secondly, I will go into more detail on the timetable for the elaboration of fiscal measures and the question of why the government has chosen to regulate fuel taxes first by means of a policy decision. Thirdly, I will also answer a number of questions about the content of the reduction in excise duty and the reduction in VAT on energy. Finally, I would like to comment on the questions raised about the unpaid travel allowance, the care allowance, the solidarity levy, the energy tax and the energy surcharge for the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. When compiling the package, we looked at what was still possible for the current year. The Minister of SZW and the Minister of Finance have already explained this. In view of the very urgent situation, what can you do temporarily? It is a matter of temporary measures in this tax year; that is very unique......................................................................................................................................................................................... It should also focus on vulnerable households. I would like to see the two packages for 2022 in conjunction in this respect, because that is also important in the preparation. In the first package, there was a very strong commitment to reducing the free base for energy taxation and to reducing the energy tax rate in the first tranche. Of course, that works well for all households, but certainly for low incomes. In addition, there is of course the energy surcharge of €200. You can only take such an energy tax measure once a year. You can't take it in the meantime, so we could take it again next January. That has really to do with execution, so not with unwillingness. That's one of the reasons we didn't choose it. I have to admit that there is now quite a lot of emphasis on generic measures, in the form of a temporary reduction in VAT on energy, gas and electricity from 21% to 9%, and on the other hand excise duties on fuels. Generic means simple and efficient on the one hand, but on the other hand it also means that it does not only apply to a specific group. In the total package of 6.2 billion ECUs, I will add the first and the second package together to 3.7 billion ECUs through the energy tax and the energy surcharge. But there's a certain mix in there. Mr Grinwis has also specifically asked for this. In particular, he asked about these tariffs and the tax reduction of the energy tax. By the way, if you look at the tax reduction in the energy tax over the last few years, you can see that it was €311 and that this year it is €681, excluding VAT. Last year it was €461. Again, that is really an instrument, a button you can turn on, but that can only be done on January 1st of every year. The same applies to the rate. Mr Klaver and Mr Nijboer also asked why we did not increase the allowances and the child-related budget. I'm just being very honest about that, too. First of all, we usually do that on 1 January. If you wanted to do it temporarily, you could. This can be done with the care allowance, with the rent allowance and with the child-related budget. That's not impossible. Of course, that takes time to prepare, that takes a month or two, three. But where is the complexity and why have we not chosen to do it as part of a temporary measure? That is because that would mean that all those decisions should be amended. If we take the healthcare allowance as an example, involving 6 million people, it would mean that all these decisions would have to be adapted. In doing so, you naturally run into risks, for example the risk that you pay back too much for the year 2022, which means you have to recover it again. And then, in terms of performance, you just call a problem over you. But it's temporary. In our view, it would be much more useful to have this discussion about overall income policy. That is what the SZW Minister and the Minister of Finance have already said. That would be when we discuss the Spring Note and when we come back later in the autumn with the Tax Plan. Then the overall income policy is on the table. Commitments have already been made on research into vulnerable groups. If you wanted to turn those buttons, you wouldn't do that for a few months or six months. That's just the hard part. You are faced with increases in energy prices, which occurred before the war in Ukraine. This will then be reinforced. And then you would temporarily take a cure that isn't really intended for that. After all, care payments do not have to do with the rise in energy prices. That's a very volatile market. But it is a means on which you can have a discussion with each other in the context of income policy. In other words, we would like to have that discussion at the time of the issue of the Spring Note or the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u69	Not about the care allowance and the like, but about the increase in the energy tax reduction, the answer that came up and which both Mr Grinwis and I have been asking questions about, I think we can all agree that this VAT reduction is aimed at the energy tax, at what energy costs to people, but to a very large extent ends up with people with a high income. My proposal, and in my view Mr Grinwis's question, was that, if you want that generic to end up with people with lower incomes, you could increase the reduction in energy taxes. The Secretary of State says that this can only be done on 1 January, but could we not say, as with the healthcare allowance, that if we really want to do so, in an emergency situation as it is happening now, we want to be able to do so as a Chamber? Then where does the Secretary of State say that's going? Is that legal? I don't think so, so isn't it just a gentlemen's agreement we have with each other that we don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u70	I understand the question very well. I have also indicated that it is indeed most appropriate, if energy prices are rising and you want to do something for households, that you are going to go to the energy tax instrument. So I agree with Mr Stoffer that in that respect you could say that it is best to lower VAT for a second. Only, it really can't, it just doesn't perform technically. I can very easily promise things here, but that is not going to be the case with this Secretary of State, and that is also the case with the health care allowance, and then come back to you after six months or nine months and say: we have incredibly many problems about us in terms of implementation, and I think that risk is higher than the importance you describe. Then I would prefer to opt for the second best solution of reducing the VAT rate from 21% to 9%, because that is much simpler in terms of implementation. But I admit that it is a different instrument than the instrument of reducing energy tax rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u71	For someone who has worked for half his life in civil engineering and so on, I understand that execution is quite difficult. However, for us, but also for the people who are watching the debate to understand it. I understand that the care allowance is complicated, because then you have income limits and so on, but that increase in energy tax reduction is a generic measure. Then where is the complexity to carry it through? When I look at it, I think: it seems pretty simple to me. I think that's what most people in the Netherlands think. If the Secretary of State says that it is difficult, then believe that it is, but I would like to get an explanation of what this difficulty is, so that we have really made up for that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's really in the energy tax declaration system, the automated energy tax system. I have stated once again that I will come back to this later on what can be done in the interim in income tax. The energy tax really doesn't do that. That can only be done on January 1st. I can, of course, give the order: go change it so that we can do so in a next situation, but that is no good to us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u74	That'll be my last question, I guess. Could we not do it retroactively from 1 January at the beginning of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u75	See, that's an interesting thought, because tax-wise you can do something with retroactive effect if it's in the interests of the citizens. I'm not gonna promise, but what I do want to promise is that I'm gonna let that work out for a while. We still have a second term, not right now. That's the interesting thing about these debates. We have this kind of debate about the jubelton and the unpaid travel expenses. I'm listening to what you're saying. Retrospectively increasing a tax is a very complicated story. That can only be done under very strict conditions. I'm not saying it's possible, but I'll go check it out. If we could, we'd include that in that note, then that obviously means that it has consequences for another part of the package, because I only have one pot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u76	Well, that's quite a promise. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u77	Did you hear the promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u78	I heard you very well. It's a, say, procedural commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u79	But I take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u80	That's right. My question concerns another aspect. If the package stays whole, the VAT on the energy account will go down from 21% to 9%. This raises questions about a specific aspect, namely solar panels. To this end, I believe that we should also adapt the drafts. That's a lot of trouble for citizens. They buy solar panels, can ask for VAT back and have to be calculated on a flat-rate basis. Then why don't we set the VAT at 0%? European can do that. For the State, budgeting is hardly a loss of revenue. Why don't we take care of this right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u81	The cabinet is coming up with this proposal very soon. One small correction, though. Mr Grinwis says this is allowed. No, we can't do this yet. The EU Directive will be updated as soon as possible, in the very short term. Then it's okay. Then we will also come up with that proposal, because all the arguments you have mentioned cut wood. By the way, this was not a new proposal. That was already in the making.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u82	Finally, Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u83	I'm very happy about that. I'm looking forward to that. Can the Secretary of State also state at what time the Chamber will be informed about this? I think this is good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yes. Very soon. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the unpaid travel allowance. Mr Nijboer and Mr Heinen pointed this out. Let me begin with the fact that this is in the coalition agreement. Mr Heinen pointed that out. The increase in the free travel allowance will be introduced. In cents this goes from €0,19 first to €0,21 and eventually to €0,23. The coalition agreement also provided financial support. I understand this morning it wasn't 100 million. I also had the rule of thumb that €0.01 came down to 100 million, so €0.02 out of 200 million and €0.04 out of 400 million. I hear it's 130 million, but we'll come back to that later. That's not what I'm talking about right now. I understand that Mr Heinen and Mr Nijboer asked if you could speed this up. Can you, for example, introduce it on 1 July? Here too, you could technically do this on 1 July. This means first legislation, which then means what for all kinds of software, payroll records and so on. Mr Heinen said, at least that is how I understood him: here comes the jubelton again. The jubelton was also in the coalition agreement. Your Chamber has asked: State Secretary, can you see if this can be introduced not on 1 January 2024, but on 1 January 2023? We did the best we could for that. This cannot be abolished on 1 January 2023, but it can be substantially reduced to the one-off exemption in the parent-child situation. Moreover, I say to Mr Heinen that he is not the only one. Also in the cabinet there are some who think: hey, there is 160 million to be achieved. That's not true. In the number series of the coalition agreement, with the abolition of the jubelton starting on 1 January 2024, 20 times 8 million stood at 160 million. To put it precisely, it's actually 20 times 7 million is 140 million. There was also another $20 million in it. If you bring that up, it'll be $7 million one time. Mr Nijboer has already said it. I have said before: Mr Nijboer can count. That turned out to be the same yesterday. So it was 7 million. That 7 million cannot be the cover to bring forward the unpaid travel allowance for a year. If we're gonna get the 130 million, you're gonna need 260 million. I understand the idea very well, by the way. I would like to say in this respect: let us seriously consider whether we can bring this forward. Then we'll have to find cover. That coverage must be found in the Spring Note and the Tax Plan. I'm not gonna promise that we're gonna do this, but I understand very well. You two haven't been the only ones who suggested this. There are others who have proposed this. I would add that I also see a great responsibility here with employers. It is nice to put an unpaid travel allowance in the law, but I believe it was Mr Klaver who said: you should also look a little wider, because it is not just the government that has to do it. Employers must also do something here, so they must also grant the unpaid travel allowance to workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you. Mr Heinen of the VVD. After that, Mr Klaver has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you for that answer. These are actually two points of discussion. On the one hand: can it be technical? And on the other hand, is there coverage? At the jubelton we actually had the same discussion, but you didn't need cover there, because it was actually a tax increase. I heard the Secretary of State say this is technically possible. So at least that's a point. I also hear the Secretary of State say: we can see if there are any other cover options. From the cover option I have in mind, he's not so charmed. I shall come back to that in the second term. I have also tabled a motion on this, in line with the jubilee motion of the SP, to see if it can be done in the same spirit as technically possible, can it be done budgetally? It is possible to do so. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u87	Fine. Mr Klaver had a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u88	I think there is a lot of money going into reducing excise duties. That sounds like a good cover. I have one question. I was pleased that the Secretary of State went into the possibilities and indiscretions of the healthcare allowance. We also talked about the child-related budget and the rent allowance. These are other types of supplements, with a different size of the target group. Can the Secretary of State also specifically address these two issues and explain why he considers them undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u89	Yes. Of these other supplements, I don't have the numbers in my head right now, but of course that's much less than the 6 million of the healthcare allowance. But the system as such is the same. So you're gonna have to see if you can do it first. Yeah, it's possible. But then you'll have to go back into the whole administrative process of those decisions. You can't do it with a pencil stroke. That means you have to impose new decisions. That puts pressure on capacity. That's the first thing. And second of all, it's error-prone. So the question is: do you have to do this now for temporary? I'm not saying you shouldn't look at it in the overall package, but my suggestion would be: take it with you in the income debate next year and the years after that. The argument of the care allowance therefore also applies to the rent allowance and, in essence, to the child-related supplement. I am quite prepared, in preparation for the second term, to make a few officials happy, so that you can also make those considerations and also see how we have made the assessments so far. In the same way of thinking, the same applies to income tax. It's even a little more complicated there. Because everything you do in income tax, whether it's rates, the labor discount or the income-dependent combination discount, is part of the annual cycle, especially the first two. Declaration software must be delivered on time; therefore, we always do it once a year. This is done by external software providers. There are also packages made for business. The thing is, you can only really do that once a year. But what is also annoying is that the citizens, even if you would like to do it in the meantime, will not enjoy it. For example, if you were to do something in 2022, for example to increase the employment discount in order to give a piece of relief, that would have to be reflected in the provisional income tax assessment 2022, which has already been imposed. So the citizens will only benefit from this by the year 2023. So apart from the more principled point: what can you do temporarily and what can you do structurally? As far as income tax is concerned, I am looking at Mr Alkaya and also at the Minister who has said all the necessary about it. Of course that is an income-political question that you are asking. A solidarity levy must be set by means of income tax. It does not lend itself to a rapid decision-making process on a temporary basis. So for that too, the proposal to conduct the political debate is based on the income figures for 2023. As far as I am concerned, these are the questions. Then I'll move on quickly, Mr. Chairman, to the timeline. We have, of course, wrestled with the excise duty on fuels. I naturally agree on behalf of the cabinet with what the Chamber says on budget law and also on legislative proposals. We need to discuss legislative proposals here first. That's what we're gonna do with VAT. There's going to be an emergency bill. If it's okay, it'll go to the Council of State in early April. We then depend on how quickly the Council of State gives advice, but in such situations it must be possible quickly. There will be written input at the end of April. In May it could then be dealt with in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. We need to publish it in the Official Journal by 15 June at the latest in order to be able to introduce it by 1 July. We will therefore, in all honesty, ask for the sanctioning of the policy decision we have taken. Policy decisions are sometimes made in fiscal terms. Sometimes policy decisions are taken that give an interpretation of the legislation. That's what we'll take into account in that bill. Why we did it on April 1st is in a sense because emergency law breaks. It is something that is experienced directly at the pump, by the way, by everyone. We have of course also looked at the effects in the border regions, particularly of course at price differences with Germany, but also with Belgium. We're monitoring that, too. The Belgian Government, a very wide-ranging government, also opted for this measure and immediately introduced it, to the great pride of the Belgian Finance Minister, who came to tell me that last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u90	There is an interruption by Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u91	In any case, I am pleased that it is all possible with this Secretary of State. If we proposed something in the past, for example a reduction in VAT from 9% to 6%, that was just a bad idea. Then it was: the tax authorities can't handle it, that's impossible. Now it all seems to be possible. I don't know what kind of magic wand this Secretary of State uses at the IRS, but I'm happy about it. Now about Belgium. In my first term I asked why it is possible in Belgium to bring the petrol price to, I believe, €1.77 and put the soil at €1.70. This Secretary of State does not go beyond €0.17 reduction, so it will be €2.30 here. That's not gonna help the driver, is it? Should they be happy to pay €2.30 for a liter of gasoline? And that while this Secretary of State is filling his pockets with the VAT on that petrol of €2,33. This means that he collects a lot of extra VAT revenue. Why don't you just do like the Belgians? It's better for all the money that's leaking out. So just the energy price for the whole of the Netherlands at €1,70.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u92	I do not want to crush Mr Van Dijck's enthusiasm, because he thinks I have a magic wand. A generic reduction in VAT is much more complicated. You can do that, but you'll be stuck with it for ten years. This has also been explained in a technical briefing to the Finance Committee. The temporary reduction from 21% to 9% is possible. There was someone else, I believe Mr Ephraim, who asked if we could go straight to 0%. Well, that's contrary to EU law. We'll stay within the rules of what we can and can't do. Of course, we can constantly look at Belgium, but the Belgians, like the Germans, have considerably lower excise duties on car fuel. We have always pursued a policy here in the Netherlands, which we now temporarily deviate from. What do you have excise duties for? They have a price mechanism, you can differ politically on that, but in this coalition agreement we keep these excise duties firmly at that level. I would not like to follow the Belgians in everything, because if you look at the Belgians' public debt, you could also say: perhaps they should increase their excise duties a little bit. But aside from that... Of course, I should never have made this point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u93	Finally, Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u94	No, because indeed, this cabinet is moving very hard towards Belgium as far as public debt is concerned, with 95%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u95	I do not think so, but that is another discussion and I would like to leave it to the Minister of Finance. We're still within the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u96	But in any case, in the fifteen years I have been a financial spokesman, we have said a lot of times: a lot of money is leaking to Germany and Belgium, for groceries and cigarettes. The Belgians are happy about it. I also said yesterday in the first term: it saves €50 on a tank! Well, you don't mind driving from Breda to Belgium for that. Then you pack your cigarettes and your groceries with you. And the middle class in the Netherlands complains stone and bone. They're even talking about a copper strike if this goes on like this. In other words, you think you're smart, but you're actually very stupid, because you're losing a lot of tax revenue and a lot of economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u97	I have, of course, indicated that, and then I think that Mr Van Dijck and I are getting a little closer together again, that we have been very sensitive to his arguments, just not in the extremes he is talking about. But also an argument for reducing the excise duty on fuels had to do with the border regions. Not only with Belgium, but especially with Germany. That is an even longer limit, but also Belgium. Of course, you always have to look at that. You shouldn't sell yourself out of the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u98	You're going to continue your speech again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u99	Yes. So the policy decision will return to the emergency legislation. We do expect criticism, as you do in this Chamber. We've calculated it. Also the criticism of the Council of State, which is not happy with policy decisions that anticipate formal legislation. But I explained the dilemma we faced. Then there was another question: I do not see Mr Ephraim whether it is time to give back the Quarter of Cook permanently. I have already said what I wanted to say about excise duties. We talked about Germany and Belgium. Mr. Chairman. I've got a few left-over questions. Not insignificant questions, by the way. There's not many of them. In particular, there was a question about the Caribbean Netherlands. There was also a question, I thought, about the countries in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Let me start with that. The 5 million out of this package is for the Caribbean Netherlands as we are doing for the European Netherlands. The countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin have their own autonomy and competence in that regard. That package does not relate to that. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. This means that of those 5 million, 1.3 million will go towards reducing excise duties. There will also be work on an energy surcharge. On average, a larger proportion of households live in poverty there. They're gonna need that. The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs will, of course, develop this further. That is all I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u100	Then I thank the Secretary of State, but there is one more question. Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u101	I would like to come back to the little interrupting debate we had on the possible coverage of a motion which I would then like to table in the second term. The Secretary of State pointed out that the abolition of the jubelton amounts to 7 million. That's right, and that's what the letter of inquiry says. But I'm gonna get that letter anyway. It does say that this amounts to 7 million a year until 2042. So if you add this up for roughly 20 years, you're going to be 140 million cumulatively. Isn't that right? If you cover this intertemporally and bring it forward, you'll have cover with that, won't you? I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yes. Thank you for this question, because this continues to cause confusion. That 140 million-dollar series was already in the coalition agreement. However, it entered on 1 January 2024, plus by the way 20 million. So pulling it forward will get you that $7 million one time. Otherwise, you'd have 160 million plus 140 million, so suddenly you'd have found 300 million over the entire term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u103	It is a good thing that we are talking about this, because this indeed leads to confusion. The letter refers to additional coverage of 7 million p.a. It is therefore an additional cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u104	Yes. That is why it is just right that we should say that here. So we should have formulated this more carefully. We should have made the comparison as I explained it orally. I hope that will remove the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you for the answers on the BES islands. Thanks for building up that $5 million. However, I could not find out one-two-three how that total amount was put together. I am asking precisely because the Secretary of State says that energy poverty is very high there. Maybe the Secretary of State can clarify that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u107	This is actually based on a pro rata parte calculation. I think it is a good thing that we share the knowledge we have with the Chamber in writing. Then you can totally follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr Omtzigt also asked his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u109	I don't know if I'm with the right ruler for the next question. I would like to know whether it can be arranged that if an energy company goes bankrupt, the energy company that takes over the customers will have to apply the same rates as it applies to its own contracts. Now a lot of people have entered the ship because their energy company went bankrupt and they suddenly had to pay the top price at the new company.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u110	So this is not in my portfolio; that is what Mr Omtzig actually said when he asked the question. But he asked the question, even in his term. I think it is just very important that there should be a written answer from the Minister of EZK to that question. The energy companies are covered by the Minister of EZK. I admit that that answer will be given by her on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u112	We have agreed that we will keep the second term in the short term. The planning is equally dependent on the available information. I thank the rulers for their contribution. I would like to thank the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed the debate in a different way. Now I'm just finishing up, and now Mr Klaver has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u113	You said that the moment we continue the debate depends on when that information is available. I would like to say here that I prefer to continue tomorrow. And I think that information should actually be in the House of Representatives tonight. These are questions that have already been asked yesterday. So I would like to point out that not all of these things are being asked for. This should have been there by now. So I wouldn't want to give the Cabinet too much time; I just want those answers tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u114	I want them as soon as possible. This also has to do with the fact that a number of municipalities now indicate to me that they do not know the rules and have stopped implementing the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you. Yes. We're gonna go in consultation with the Cabinet and see when that information is available. But when we plan a debate, we also have to deal with the availability of directors and other debates that are planned, as you know. So everyone's doing their best. I thank everyone. I'm suspending the meeting. At 4 p.m., we will continue the debate on the European summit.
