ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to the Upper Chamber, which is not an unknown area for him. It's nice for him to be able to come here again just before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The current budgetary change has a clear communication on the migration and asylum component: "By increasing inflow and occupation, the costs of the asylum chain increase." This problem cannot be solved simply by a financial change in the budget. As long as this Secretary of State does not take any action to close our borders for this asylum invasion, the mopping with the crane remains open. The terms 'higher inflow' and 'employment' can be taken literally in this context. It's an occupation. An occupation of our municipalities, our homes and our facilities by sophisticated, mainly Islamic, asylum colonists who see a wingewest to be plundered in the Netherlands. It is precisely this VVD Secretary of State who, as alderman in Amsterdam, cheered: the more asylum seekers, the better. Can the Secretary of State indicate if he's reached his ideal image now that the azc's bulging out? Or should even larger hordes of lucky Africans and Arabs come to the Netherlands? This Secretary of State wants to continue this asylum invasion in full. The explanatory memorandum states: "The current estimate of the Multi-Year Production Forecast results in a budget increase of 42.6 million euros in 2022, reaching 293.4 million euros in 2027. The increase is mainly caused by the increased occupation at the COA, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers. The average COA occupation in 2022 and the expected average COA occupation in the coming years are higher than the coalition agreement. EUR 25.1 million in 2022, rising to EUR 277.1 million in 2027." This does not, therefore, mean any restriction on the entry of asylum, but a constant facilitation. In the meantime, this Secretary of State makes a number of agreements at European level on a solidarity mechanism and on a European approach to migration. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this relates to each other? Does that even make sense if this influx continues unabated? Or is that what the EU is encouraging? What does this mean for the viewer at home, at the informal JHA Council: the Justice and Home Affairs Council, the European solidarity for the Netherlands? And how united is this Secretary of State with our own residents, who are increasingly on waiting lists for homes and who are full of asylum crime, nuisance, cultural alienation and Islamization? How united is it to accommodate asylum seekers in Soestdijk Palace and Meerwijk Castle, while our own house seekers can whistle for a house? In the memo, we read that the resources for the COA and the IND are being made available in a structural manner. That means: even more azc's and for a longer time. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent the proposed new registration centre in Bant in the Noordoostpolder is also covered by the current budget change? Are the farmers bought out of the money to put the azc there and allow mass immigration? Is that also the result of this budget change? Is the Secretary of State prepared to pull the plug quickly from this miserable plan? At the same time, this State Secretary intends to introduce a new law to force municipalities to receive asylum seekers. According to the Secretary of State, this law will be implemented at the request of the security regions. In the AD of 8 July, it was already clear how pleased President Bruls of the Security Council was with this proposed new coercive measure. Can the Secretary of State indicate how an untransparent consultation club of unelected mayors can put such legislative proposals on the table and the cabinet will willingly respond to them? That's a flagrant violation of the separation of powers, isn't it? Why is this Security Council, as the cabaret of the unelected, not sent back to their quarters with the message to deal with only their core tasks, such as fire services? Mr. Chairman. The unelected security regions are moving forward. In Zaanstad, a reception for 225 asylum seekers was designated by the Zaanstreek-Waterland security region without the city council being informed. All agreements made with local residents and municipal councils are strongly ignored by, for example, extending asylum reception unsolicited. For example, the mayor of Maashorst, Paul Rüpp, stated that the emergency shelter in 't Oventje near the village of Zeeland would be extended against all agreements. At the emergency shelter on the site of Autotron in the municipality of's-Hertogenbosch, residents from the COA are again asked to allow renewal, while a hard agreement has been made that it would be for up to a year, taking into account the terrible experiences in 2015 and 2016, when an azc was also established, such as serious sexual harassment. Can the Secretary of State indicate what agreements with the environment are worth while they are completely ignored? But the situation in Cranendonck is the crown in terms of administrative rancidity. There were several clear agreements on the maximum duration of the azc. As of 1 July 2024 it would close. If it had been up to the city council, it would have been sooner. Now the Secretary of State comes up again with a proposal to keep it open for longer. Is this also provided for in the present budget amendment? While this municipality of Cranendonck has been plagued for years by unacceptable asylum crime and nuisance, thefts, assaults, robberies, intimidations and fightings, the examples must be well known to the Secretary of State; he was there last week, too, it is still a violent gang within the azc. This continuation is untouched. Then come up with soothing words as "first rest and then the good conversation" is a political game to fool the inhabitants. They don't buy it anymore. At the opening in 2014, common cow trade was already conducted with nonsense promises like it in exchange for establishing the azc broadening the A2. Now the Secretary of State also comes up with empty words about investing in the quality of life. The only meaningful investment in viability is the definitive closure of this azc. As a PVV Group, we are therefore tabling a motion for a resolution. We are also tabling a motion not to make any further proposals to extend temporary emergency shelters, as well as a motion not to buy land from farmers to establish azc's and also to refrain from the registration centre in Bant. Mr. Chairman. Once again, we call on the Secretary of State to close our borders first and foremost. So far in the first term. I shall now read the motions. But I see there's been an interruption. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u4	You can read your motions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first motion calls for the azc Cranendonck to be closed. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State intends to keep the asylum seekers' centre Cranendonck open for longer than the contractual date of 1 July 2024;]] [[noting that Cranendonck City Council decided earlier this year not to renew this contract with the COA;]] [[Whereas there has been structural nuisance and crime in and around Cranendonck for years;]] [[calls on the cabinet to refrain from keeping the azc Cranendonck open for longer and to close it permanently at the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-VI-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u6	And even a third, Mr. Chairman. The second motion calls on the cabinet not to propose an extension for asylum reception sites. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in many municipalities (emergency) reception locations for asylum seekers have been established on a temporary basis;]] [[noting that, in the event of such temporary (emergency) reception, the COA has agreed maximum time limits for accommodation;]] [[noting that COA and public authorities are coming forward with proposals to keep these temporary locations open for longer than agreed;]] [[Whereas agreements with residents should be respected;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to make proposals to keep temporary (emergency) reception locations for asylum seekers open longer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-VI-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u7	Finally, the third motion: no registration centre in Bant and no farmland for azc's. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Noordoostpolder an agricultural enterprise was bought by the Empire to create a registration centre for asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas the surrounding villages of Bant, Kuinre and Luttelgeest feel offended by the decision to set up a registration centre, while an azc has already been established in Luttelgeest, where 1,000 asylum seekers are housed;]] [[Whereas the current registration centre in Ter Apel causes serious local nuisance to the living environment;]] [[Whereas our farmers should not be bought out in order to allow asylum migration;]] [[calls on the government to abandon the establishment of an asylum-seekers' registration centre in Bant and to stop buying up agricultural enterprises to enable asylum-seekers' centres to be established,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-VI-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. For the Acts. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I strongly distance myself from the abject qualifications and the inflammatory text of the representative of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr President, may I first respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u11	No, a statement was made by Mrs. Karimi. Mrs. Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u12	On behalf of D66, I would like to endorse what Mr Karimi said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr President, may I take a moment to respond to this interruption? Also because of a personal fact. I am being accused of a criminal offence by the two speakers, namely sedition. I don't want to accept that. I would like to ask the speakers whether they want to take back those words and not put me on the spot because there is no sedition here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u14	The President has heard that a word has been used which does not differ at all from the words you have used. So if you can say anything, the other Members of Parliament may also use the word "sustainment." I haven't heard any reference to the Code of Criminal Law. Mrs Stienen, you may make one more comment or ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u15	I do have an explanatory question. At the beginning of Mr Van Hattem's speech I heard all kinds of calls. If I have understood correctly, 'borders close' is the solution to the difficult task that the Dutch Government is now facing. But then I have a question for Mr Van Hattem. What would his proposal be when it comes to the people who are here now? What should the Dutch government do with these people? I heard a qualification that, according to my party, D66, goes against Article 1. At least that's my impression. He was talking specifically about Muslims. Syrians are currently the largest percentage of asylum seekers. I do not know whether Mr Van Hattem is aware that 14% of the Syrian population is Christian. I had the feeling that very specific distinctions were made. Again, what is the solution of the PVV for the great task that the Dutch government currently has with the people who are already in the Netherlands and who are therefore covered by Article 1?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u16	We're gonna have to separate a few things. There is indeed a huge influx of Islamic asylum seekers. To give you an example, last week was the terrible Sacrifice. Before that, a mosque in Den Bosch de Brabanthallen, a huge location, used to be a cattle market hall where pigs were traded, hired to there...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u17	I suggest you answer Mrs Stienen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u18	Yeah, I'm answering that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u19	No, no, you're not answering that. I'm dealing with the order here. The Sacrifice Festival is also extremely interesting to talk about. You were asked a specific question. Would you answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u20	It was thus indicated that the influx of refugees in particular had greatly increased the large influx of attendees at the Sacrifice Festival. We also really see in practice the increase in the number of Islamic asylum seekers and their impact on society. The second point is the solutions. What should happen in the Netherlands? Firstly, we must close our borders for asylum migrants. Reception in one's own region and not here in the Netherlands, that must be the beginning; that must always be the starting point. To this end, we must ensure that asylum seekers are prevented from travelling through open European borders to and from the Netherlands. As long as we continue to facilitate it here, as long as we make Soestdijk Palace available, make a castle available, make hotels available...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u21	I suggest you do not repeat your first term. So this is your answer to Mrs Stienen's question. I think we'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u22	That we stop that sucking effect is, at least, an important step that we must take. And whoever's already here and has no business here, we need to get them out of the country as soon as possible. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Secretary of State, are you able to answer immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had a conversation before and we also came to talk about the last committee meeting in the House of Representatives, which went rather violently. I said, "But I'm going to the First Chamber now; it's not like that. But I had counted outside Mr. Van Hattem, so that was a bit more nuanced. Mr. Van Hattem, my ideal image... I've lost Mr. Van Hattem at all. Oh, there! That has nothing to do with what I just said about my ideal image. My ideal image is that we in the Netherlands can normally talk to each other about the reception of people fleeing war, violence and oppression. My ideal picture is that when we talk about it in a normal way, we offer shelter to people fleeing war, violence and oppression. If I hear Mr Van Hattem but also the PVV chairman talking about certain countries, you would expect the PVV to say: people are oppressed in those countries and thus, according to the PVV, they meet the criteria that apply to the reception of people. Because according to the PVV it is a hell to live there, but that seems to be more nuanced. That's my ideal image. We're picking up the people who deserve to be taken care of here. And the people who are not allowed to stay here, we guide in a proper way back to the country of origin. I am also talking about this, for example at European level. That means we're looking at screening: who are you? We're looking at registration: that's what we record it all in. We make agreements with other countries: if you have entered country X, you should also go through the procedure in that country X. That is the Dublin procedure that we have agreed on. And we should be talking about: under what conditions does someone catch and take back who? That is what we do to each other at European level. The PVV criticized housing in special locations and hotels. That surprised me a bit, because I think the PVV is one of the parties that says that you should not give people who are allowed to stay here a regular home because there are too few homes in the Netherlands. That is exactly what the Cabinet is doing: to see how we can ensure that we receive people in such a way and in such a place that there is no displacement of other locations. So we do not give priority from the cabinet when it comes to social housing, but we create intermediate services. We'll see if we can get it into a hotel when it comes to a status holder. By the way, I would like to add that a status holder has the same rights as Mr Van Hattem, the chairman and myself when it comes to staying in a hotel. Anyone who is legally resident here in the Netherlands may do so. Even stronger, we have whole groups who come to do that as a tourist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u25	Now, in the debate, the Secretary of State is confusing asylum seekers and status holders. Now he deals very specifically with status holders and the hotel arrangement that has been created for this purpose. As far as PVV is concerned, that is an absurd arrangement. He says "the dwellings that should otherwise be allocated." In my contribution, I referred mainly to the asylum shelter from the COA and there is no housing. In addition, asylum seekers who enter the country directly and register under the status "asylum" are now being transferred to hotels, hotel facilities and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u26	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u27	So can the Secretary of State address that point regarding asylum reception? So apart from the status holders, which we also find ridiculous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u28	It is very good in itself that the PVV distinguishes between asylum seekers and status holders. So that's the PVV's price. Only when Mr Van Hattem's contribution then talks about housing, I think he should talk about status holders. He has just shown that he knows the difference between an asylum seeker and a status holder, so he knows that asylum seekers do not end up in homes. So the moment he makes that connection to homes and housing shortage, it has to be about status holders. Because otherwise Mr. Van Hattem wouldn't know and he knew. That's why I took a break. No, it's true, Mr. Van Hattem. Or rather, it is true, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Van Hattem is right. Status holders end up in a home just as good as Mr. Van Hattem and I. The cabinet has said that we are creating intermediate facilities, because there are not enough housing at the moment. Asylum seekers are in asylum shelters, in emergency shelters, in emergency shelters and emergency shelters that can be sports halls, as you have seen them in Leeuwarden, but that can also be a cruise ship, a hotel or another place, because we have said in the Netherlands: we strive that people do not have to stay on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr. Van Hattem, second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u30	Indeed, it is that decadence of catching on cruise ships that we are talking about. The point is that when people come here as asylum seekers, they end up back in the procedure. A large part of this will indeed remain here as status holders, so they will be eligible for these residences. The Secretary of State must therefore also listen to my comment in such a way that if this asylum influx continues in these enormous numbers, because of the current rules, a large part of asylum seekers will actually be granted a residence as a status holder. So this pressure on the housing market is going to go up hugely. So in that sense, it is a problem that cannot be distinguished.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u32	I lead from Mr Van Hattem's words that it was right that I was just beginning to talk about status holders. Because he just indicated that my analysis is correct, namely that when you talk about housing, it has to be about status holders and Mr Van Hattem referred to that. So that's why I went into that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u33	You're continuing your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u34	I'll take a look at the motions filed by the PVV. The first motion, on letter D, deals with Bant and requests that a registration centre be set up for asylum seekers in Bant and stop buying up agricultural enterprises and so on. What I asked the city council or, rather, the municipality of Noordoostpolder, is whether a registration centre can be located there. In my opinion, it is not only the cabinet that is free to ask for things from the local authorities, but it is, in fact, our mission to ask. And as long as there's no law of coercion, it's even a question of questions. What we are going to do is talk to the representation of the population of the Northeast Polder. That seems to me to be the right way forward. So you understand that I'm dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u35	Then we have a special situation. The Secretary of State says we've made a request to the city council and we're gonna have the conversation, et cetera. But it's not that noncommittal at all. Because there is a letter from the province of Flevoland in which it is very explicit and literally stated that the Empire has already bought out an agricultural company at that location to establish that registration centre there. So what do you mean an open conversation and see if there's a need for it? The Empire has already taken an advance by buying that location. Can the Secretary of State confirm that that land was actually purchased for that purpose? And can he confirm that there is no such non-committality there anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u36	Suppose Mr. Van Hattem buys a piece of land. Then Mr Van Hattem looks at the zoning plan. If it says that he can build a house there, then he builds a house there. If it says in the zoning plan that he is not allowed to build a house there, then Mr Van Hattem, like everyone else in the Netherlands, is free to ask the municipality: would you give me permission to build a house here? That house can be built if the municipalities say: we change the zoning plan. If the municipality has changed the zoning plan, Mr Van Hattem can build his house there. The COA is also free to buy a piece of land from the province of Flevoland. If there is already a destination on that land where an asylum seekers' centre, a registration location or anything else that the COA wants to build there can be built, then the COA is free to build it there. If such a destination is not on that ground, the COA is free to ask the municipality whether it is allowed to do so. The COA has exactly the same rights as Mr Van Hattem or any other person or legal person. That's what's going on here. The COA bought a piece of land from the province of Flevoland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you. Mr. Van Hattem, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u38	The COA therefore bought this with the intention to establish such a registration centre there. The Secretary of State now says: I'm going to talk to the city council and it's all not sure yet. But the Secretary of State intends that there will soon be a new law to make it possible. Can the Secretary of State also rule out the fact that there really isn't a registration centre here when that city council says, no, we don't want it? Can the Secretary of State also rule that out when the new law is in place? Or does the Secretary of State, with the new law in hand, still force that registration center there? Can the Secretary of State rule out that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u39	Suppose the States-General, with this Chamber last, decides to adopt a law in which the Second and First Chambers declare that a municipality can be obliged to cooperate in the reception of asylum seekers. Then that is a democratic decision taken by the highest body in the Netherlands, namely the States-General. It would be a bit unusual if you would then say: you may be obliged to cooperate unless you do not want to. Because an obligation you impose "unless you don't want to" is not an obligation. The First Chamber has the final say. So yes, once you as the First Chamber decide that people, or in this case municipalities, can be obliged to do something, then it is not so that it does not happen if in this case a municipality would say: but we do not want it. Because then you would adopt a special proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thirdly, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u41	If a law has been passed, that does not mean that a government must also use that power. So now the Secretary of State is actually saying, "Give it to me that we're gonna do it." He's actually saying, we're gonna push this through, because we have that law and we have the possibility, and if that law is there, we're just gonna force it out of those municipalities. The Secretary of State actually says: non-binding agreements with the city council, or any agreements with the city council, are no longer to be dealt with, because if we have that law, if you agree, we will have that power. That alone would be a good reason to vote against this law anyway. The PVV will certainly do the same. But what the Secretary of State is now presenting is actually a piece of omnipotence. He says, "If we have that legal possibility, we're gonna do it." So does the Secretary of State say that the city council, no matter how high or low one jumps, can't do anything about it when it comes to it, and that the municipality can't stop this registration centre anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u42	I believe that this Chamber is constantly adopting laws imposing obligations on citizens, institutions or other authorities. I'd almost say that's what you see in most of the laws. You lay down in laws that a municipality must establish a zoning plan, and a municipality cannot say: we are a zoning planless municipality. You lay down in laws that municipalities must issue passports and driving licences. In short, you lay down obligations for municipalities in a lot of laws, and then a municipality cannot say: I do not abide by that obligation. As far as this particular law is concerned, you have a jurisdiction over the Empire. The Empire, in this case the Secretary of State, can then use it. Nor can the Secretary of State. We have more examples of legislation in which you have done so. This is about asylum seekers, but in the case of status holders, you have laid down in the law that there is a power in the provinces to do a placement at the time that municipalities do not do so. In short, that is normal to what the Second and First Chambers lay down in a lot of legislation and it has not been said that this instrument will also be used in this particular case. I aim, as you know, to be voluntary by default. Voluntaryity is best, but sometimes it is necessary to take decisions in the Netherlands that do not go on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you. You were finishing Mr Van Hattem's motions. This was the first one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u44	Yes. The second, president, asked not to make any proposals to keep temporary reception locations for asylum seekers open longer. We can see that we are currently receiving more asylum seekers than we normally have at asylum seekers' places. This is because in the Netherlands we are simply dealing with the fact that municipalities can say 'in our municipality there is no asylum centre', whereas there are in other municipalities, with which we do not have a nationwide network. This means that we are also using emergency care and emergency care. The result of the adoption of this motion would be that crisis relief would be closed within two weeks of the adoption of this motion and thousands of people would be on the streets. You will understand that I am, therefore, in a negative position on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u45	And the third motion? But first we have a question from Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u46	I just wanted to go a little further on the fact that if you are going to extend, there is a chance that you will get a mix between the Ukrainian emergency shelter for refugees, which the mayor can decide on independently, and the regular asylum shelter, which the city council still has to decide on. At some point, a situation may arise that will merge with those two. How does the Secretary of State look at the democratic control process that the municipal councils should actually have about the mixing of asylum shelters, i.e. Ukrainian and regular asylum shelters? What is the role of the municipal councils? How can they do it so that there is no mixing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u47	I do not quite see the link between the question put and the motion before us. But apart from that, there is a different situation for Ukrainians. As you know, we have put into effect an emergency law for Ukrainians, the law of procedure of which is ongoing. So we have put in place an emergency law, and that means that there is a specific competence there for the mayor. For asylum seekers there is no emergency legislation. This means that, at the moment when the municipal administration decides to receive asylum seekers, the municipal administration can be approached by the city council. This may mean that when the city council says "you can't do it" and the college does it anyway, the city council says: then we will draw the ultimate conclusion that the municipal council must resign. It's open to the city council. Mixing as regards the reception of asylum seekers and Ukrainians can, on the basis of the voluntary nature of the municipality. When it comes to Ukrainians, we have explicitly delegated powers to the mayors, but municipalities are free to say: we are mixing them. That is a democratic process, because if the majority decides to do so, it can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you. You had arrived at the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u49	The third motion is about Cranendonck. My arguments refer a bit to the same as in the first motion. I have told Cranendonck's municipal council, both to the aldermen and to the city council: you have taken a stand, I am going to try to convince you to take a different position. I think that is exactly what is happening in this Chamber all the time. In fact, I think that is the intention of Mr Van Hattem: that he, with all the contributions he makes, is trying to convince the groups of GroenLinks and D66 of the right of the PVV. Mr Van Hattem has that right. I don't do anything else. I told the Cranendonck City Council that I was trying to convince them to make a different decision and that I would take the time to do so until 2024. I don't think anyone, not even the Supreme Court, can deny me the right to try and convince someone to take a different view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u50	I wish the Secretary of State a much greater success in convincing the municipalities than is the case with Mr Van Hattem of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u51	There was no question in that. You came to the end of your first term, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u52	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u53	Well, then, we're ready for the second term. Mr Van Hattem, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the first-term reply. First of all, the issue of European agreements. That is what the Secretary of State says: we are in favour of complying with these agreements on the Dublin procedure. We have seen over the last few years that we have not made any progress on this and that nothing has been done to send those Dublin claims back to the country where they entered the EU. So can the Secretary of State indicate what progress is being made in this area? That's been completely shut down for the time being. Then use powers. The Secretary of State has a remarkable reasoning. He says: if we adopt a law here, then we have those powers and it is democratically decided and then we can use it in that way. Well, there still has to be a careful weighing before anyone deploys a power. I hear the Secretary of State literally say 'that's about the agreements made with municipal councils 'I strive for voluntary, but sometimes it can't be voluntary, so then coercion is just necessary'. In doing so, the Secretary of State crosses the democratic process at local level. Local democracy is, in fact, simply being pushed aside if that voluntary nature is put aside. That just creeps me out. I find it terrifying what the Secretary of State intends to do with this, if it puts aside local democracy. Then dissuade the motion on the extension. Thousands of people will be on the streets. But what's it worth to meet the locals? Can the Secretary of State indicate what appointments with local residents are still worth? Are they just for the stage, or what about here in the country? Do you still have rights here when appointments are made? The Secretary of State says about Cranendonck: I would like to convince the city council there and I will continue until 2024. But does the Secretary of State also agree when the city council finally says "we're not gonna do it, we just want it shut down by 2024, as contractually stated?' Can the Secretary of State clarify that? I have asked the necessary questions about the security regions, about the fact that they are pulling all these powers in one go, when it is not at all their role and task. Even in the legislative field, they think they can play a role. Can the Secretary of State still respond to that? Finally. I have asked how the proposals I have mentioned relate to the present budget change. I haven't had an answer to that. So far, Chairman, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I am delighted that we are living in the rule of law and that we can count on judicial independence. In that context, I would like to ask a question. There has been a ruling by the Administrative Court of the Council of State on the Temporary Law on the suspension of periodic penalty payments, which has been partially declared non-binding. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what that means and how he intends to respond to it. Next: we see that the government is more often accused by the judge in this file. What does that say? How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that he gets fewer judgments from the judges against him? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Mr. Secretary of State, are you able to respond immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. The PVV says: the moment the Empire forces a municipality, a statement of local democracy is ignored. I thought I had accepted this in the first place, but not in the eyes of Mr Van Hattem. Suppose the city council of X says that it doesn't want to do something that is laid down in the law. At that time we say, if it is right, that you cannot say that, because it is laid down in the law. A city council can't say that it doesn't issue passports, doesn't do zoning plans, doesn't build schools or closes certain schools if that doesn't fit in with national laws and regulations. We have arranged it in this country in such a way that a higher government can impose legislation that a local government has to do something. You have all passed laws here that force municipalities to provide care, to ensure that there are schools, to ensure that benefits are provided. A municipality that thinks the benefits in the Netherlands are too high can't say: you know what, we cut them half. This cannot be done; it will be possible to intervene. That is not the absence of local democracy. This is intervention on the basis of legislation adopted by the highest democracy, namely the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u59	An interruption from Mr. Van Hattem. Let's be brief, because we've been on our way for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u60	It is not just a question of acting in violation of higher legislation. It was also clearly stated by the Secretary of State that voluntaryity should be the starting point. How can there be voluntaryness if he also opposes compulsion? We are talking not only about the area of higher law and regulation, but also about administrative cooperation. How can the Secretary of State say, on the one hand, that there is voluntaryness and, at the same time, that there is a compulsion over the market? Well, then there's no volunteering, is there? It's hard, scary, state-controlled thing to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you, but this question has now been raised twice. The Secretary of State has responded to it twice. I suggest we leave it at that. Did you have any further comments, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u62	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We ask municipalities to arrange emergency care. Then we may also ask the municipalities to extend that emergency care. With regard to emergency care and emergency relief, we as the Empire have no powers other than that we can ask for things. This means that at the moment when a municipality decides to extend emergency care or emergency care, there is no question of imposing it from the Empire or of ignoring local democracy or local statements. We ask, and they decide whether or not they do. So there are also the necessary municipalities that have answered that question with no and closed the emergency care or emergency care or said: we are not opening up crisis relief. In municipalities where Mr Van Hattem had been in charge, that could be the case. But fortunately there are a lot of municipalities where that is not the case. There is special funding in the asylum chain. I do not have a budget that I spend so to speak in 12 parts a year. To this end, there is open-ended funding for post-calculation when, after period X, the amount entered in the budget is exhausted but asylum seekers still apply. That money runs through BHOS. If I spend more money, the Minister of Development can spend less money. As a result of more asylum seekers in the Netherlands, we are going to spend less money on countries such as Africa and Asia. On that side, that is regrettable. It might be a reason for the PVV to think that it is still not that bad. At least that's how it works. This also means that there is no limitation in the budget. If AZCs are included, this is through the budget change that has just been made. The change in the budget reflects the actual situation, but actuality can be overtaken by reality. Then there will be postcalculation. Moreover, the costs of such a registration centre are extremely low. Mr Van Hattem said that there is already a large asylum seekers' centre of 1,000 places in the municipality of Noordoostpolder. If one agrees and if there is a registration center, only 300 places will be added. These are not the costs in the 50,000 places the COA is aiming for next year. Then Cranendonck. The City Council of Cranendonck said that they did not wish to make the spatial statements that had to be made. This means that the licence will be revoked under the facility. The question is whether what has been done can legally be done. The national attorney says: no, we cannot do that, because this should have been the subject of authorisation. So the lawyer also says that, assuming 2018 when the contract was renewed for ten years, the provision could remain there until 2028. From 2024 onwards, there is no underlying licence. That means that something must be done. This could be done by the municipality's decision to revise its position. I have announced and also said in the first term that I have told them that I will try to convince them to change their position. It is also possible that the Empire will still take a decision, as I said in the first term. Finally, I come to Mrs Karimi's questions. I have, of course, also read the statements on the temporary law. When the temporary law was dealt with here, you were also quite critical of that temporary law. I'm allowed to put it that way. The law was then passed by this Chamber. In that sense, Mrs Karimi has now been told by the Council of State that we should not have done so by the Secretary of State there, of course. We are now studying the ruling, looking at how we deal with it and then come up with a message to the Second and, of course, the First Chamber or we will come up with a new bill that in our view does comply with the statements of the Council of State. So we're still studying the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u63	First an interruption from Mr. Van Hattem and then Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u64	If I may say one more sentence to Mrs Karimi, because she is literally coming in now. Last Monday a note was sent to you and you were of course sent to the First Chamber. Last Monday, I think, was yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u65	I had asked a number of questions in first and second terms which have not yet been addressed by the Secretary of State. That is, among other things, the question of what he is going to do to reduce the flow of asylum and whether this will continue in the coming years. What progress has been made on the Dublin claims? How are the security regions fulfilling their role? They just pass municipal councils by identifying shelters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u66	The security regions have no competence in this respect. This means that the security regions, like the Empire, only have a questioning role towards the municipalities. Municipalities can tell the security mayor that they have received nothing. I have the text here for Mrs Karimi, if necessary, unless she has it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u67	I suggest that you answer Mr Van Hattem's questions briefly, because they are already very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u68	The security regions therefore have no competence whatsoever. We only ask them to coordinate in that. In recent years, and certainly also in recent years, we have seen a deterioration in the fulfilment of the commitments made within Europe. There are more and more countries that do not take back Dublin claims, or only slowly. The third question concerns the budget. The system as I've just described it applies now and without any change of law in the coming years. This means that we will have the budget in the coming years for the provision of services that are necessary to accommodate people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u69	Yeah, finally. We've been debating for over 45 minutes. Speaking time was limited, but you can make a final comment, as can Mrs Karimi. Then we'll go to a roundup.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u70	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. It is good to have a debate on such an important subject as this. I hear the Secretary of State say that the situation with regard to the Dublin claims is deteriorating. No progress is being made at European level. Then my main question remains: what is this Secretary of State going to do to reduce this influx? It seems that nothing is happening at all and that only more are coming to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u71	We currently have some 3,500 Dublin claimants in the Netherlands, who actually belong in another country, namely another European country, for clarity, because they have arrived there. One, we're gonna keep having those conversations. For example, I had it with my Italian colleague yesterday, because Italy is currently the number one country in terms of entering Europe and in terms of regular asylum seekers. Of course, I'm not talking about Ukrainians. Italy is currently the number one country in terms of entry. I had a conversation with her yesterday about this. Two: we are looking at how we can limit the provision of Dublin claimants in the Netherlands, for example by looking at the compensation, which has so far been financial. We said we'd do it in kind. That makes the Netherlands a lot less attractive to Dublin-claimers in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u72	A final question from Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u73	I read the letter. It's a very short letter, so I could read it very quickly. It does not indicate the timetable you have in mind to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u74	The last sentence of the letter reads: I will inform your Chamber further about the consequences of this ruling after the recess. Now everything in the future is "after recess," but you shouldn't read that as "in winter." That would not be appropriate to you, and you may expect a further response from me in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, that's good. My second question is more general. On this file, the judge often makes judgments that correct you. This is, of course, also about the quality of legislation and its implementation. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about his commitment on this point? How's he gonna address that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mrs Karimi is right that there are quite a number of statements by the Council of State in which we are being corrected. Now legislation is not something that is fixed and never changes again. The same applies to the case law. The legislation changes over time and it also changes with situations. This is seen, for example, in the case of specific target groups, especially in the area of migration policy. It also has a lot to do with country information that we get, which we want specifications of. These are most of the cases on which the Council of State decides. Of course, we always act as carefully as possible. We will continue to do the same. We are also looking at how the processes can be improved. That is also one of the wishes of the Council of State. This is without prejudice to the fact that the Council of State and we have different interpretations of legislation. I do think it is my job to see whether, on the right side of the border, we can continue to look for the border on some points, because we also need to see how we can get people to return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u77	That would have brought you to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u78	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-3.u80	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tonight after dinner break. I therefore propose that we vote on the motions that have been tabled. Then I'll suspend the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
