ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	We'll continue with the Start note. We have, of course, already had the first term of office. We are now going to listen to the government's term. A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Finance. Thank you for joining us. I didn't want to make it night work. I just want to get through it short and pointy. Then I have to start early, says Mr Van Dijck. Yeah, he's right about that, but the last debate ended. I hope that we can make it short and pointy. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the members of this committee for their input into the first term. It has been a few weeks ago, but it is worth remembering: the debate on the Start note in this first parliamentary consideration is about the financial arrangements for this cabinet period and is therefore an important debate for the cabinet, for the Chamber and for the country. I wanted to name one particular element. In the period that has passed, terrible developments have taken place around and in Ukraine. It is important that I pronounce this here at the moment, in the first term in the Chamber. Together with you, I am very concerned about the situation there. It can, of course, also affect us economically. We'll talk about that. But at first my concern goes to the people in the region and the country itself, as I said yesterday. They are hard hit in their safety and security of existence. The steps of the cabinet for the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity are ready to go, and thus the sanctions announced, as part of the Dutch commitment. The current and further escalation in Ukraine can have a further negative impact on the country's financial and economic situation. Through ongoing and new financial support, the Netherlands is trying to support Ukraine in order to prevent further destabilisation. The EU contributes with a financing package of EUR 1.2 billion. That's what was appointed yesterday. Next Friday, in the informal Eurogroup, we will also discuss the situation there with the Finance Ministers, and, of course, the possible effects on Europe's macroeconomic prospects, price increases and gas supply vulnerabilities. I will not anticipate that, but I wanted to mention this. The cabinet is therefore closely monitoring developments, with European colleagues. Mr. Chairman. A number of different topics have been identified during the consultation on the Start note. Questions have been asked about that. I would like to answer them along the following lines. First comes the block of budgetary policy. This includes trendary fiscal policies, broad people's prosperity and well-being, transparency, the risks of interest rates, CPB estimates, and the protocol on unforeseen expenditure. Lots of questions have been asked. That's block one. If I forget one, I'll give you a clue if it's under block one, two or three. I see Mr Van Dijck coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	We shouldn't be paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	Okay. That's very nice. Block two is about investment funds. These include the costs of the funds, the incidental nature of the funds, the size, the instrument of the funds, the geographical distribution and the rural test, and the role of the Minister of Finance. There was also a question about the prevention of waste in that context. Block three is about inflation, purchasing power and wealth. This includes distribution of purchasing power and reduction of charges, but also questions about the marginal rate, surcharges, overheating of the economy, VAT, and standards and prices. I don't mention all the questions, but I'm saying this to give a direction to the block. On block four, my notes say "varia," but it is not varia; they are important issues, such as the finances of the municipalities, care for the elderly, youth care and the European budget rules. That was briefly mentioned yesterday. As those present know in yesterday's main debate, a letter will be sent on this subject. The block continues on investment climate, financial awareness, child schemes and ICT. It's not complete, but that's the layout of the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	Clear. You mentioned yesterday that you all had a major debate. There has also been a great deal of discussion, so we do not need to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	Today we could read that Russia warns us about doubling the gas bill. As the Minister may know, a lot of people already have a lot of problems paying the energy bill. It's doubled for a lot of people by now. Then there would be another doubling. Then the energy bill for even more people, like everyone else, becomes priceless. What is the plan B of this minister for these people? I'm hearing this minister on Plan A. For the doubling of the current gas account, it has no answer to improve or correct purchasing power, let alone if the gas account doubles again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	This discussion and the answer to the question are, as far as I am concerned, under the block of purchasing power and inflation, and, of course, under the high energy bills. So I'm gonna get to that. But of course plan A is the spring bill anyway, so we can see where we stand at that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	Okay. Then we'll deal with it later, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	Then I want to go to the first block. As this Chamber has noted, we have ambitious plans for the future: substantial investments in broad prosperity and people's well-being. We are doing this because we are convinced that the costs for generations after us will be higher if we do not address the major problems now. It is a catch-up by this cabinet, partly because of the harsh climate objectives, but also through the approach to nitrogen emissions, investment in the living environment, physical investment and structural investment in education, the quality of education, support and financing of teachers for the classroom, safety in the street and the rule of law. So we're an investment cabinet. You can see this in the Start note, also from the point of view that we need to build a strong government with a human dimension. Many of the challenges call for a European approach. You have seen in the Start note that the cabinet wants to play a leading role. This cabinet's investments lead to higher debt and increasing financial burdens for future generations. It is a conscious choice based on the belief that investment will benefit society, and that delay in the future will lead to higher costs and a loss of wider prosperity. Think of the consequences of global warming and climate change. Many of the considerations can also be seen in the discussions you have had with economists in this Chamber, in width. The benefits of investment, for example in education, come from future generations. These are choices we have made from the political point of view, from the coalition parties. The discussions you have had with economists about opportunities and risks also mean, of course, that the Cabinet is not insensitive to the warnings of the Central Planning Office on debt development and the sustainability of public finances. In my view, that brings with it a great responsibility. For example, we will need to ensure reforms in care that lead to better and affordable care. We will have to ensure that the planned intensifications are actually occasional and not de facto structural. There's no room for waste. We must therefore ensure that, as the Minister for Finance, I will ensure that expenditure is used effectively and efficiently, that is to say efficiently and effectively. We do that within the budgetary framework. We have searched the edges with the financial agreements and thus reached the limit of what we consider acceptable to spend. This applies to shifting the burden to the future, but also to budgetary rules, certainly the 3% standard and the 60% standard, which remain anchors of the European Stability and Growth Pact. The budget anchors - I come now to the questions asked by Mr Nijboer - are particularly important in the coming cabinet period. I would also like to take advantage of the moment to express my appreciation for the PvdA and GroenLinks' counter-budget. We can see that there are elements in that. Of course, we also see other choices that have been made. But it took a lot of work, thinking and preparation. So our appreciation for that. I'll always take this. The cabinet has, however, laid down a clear financial framework. The anchors for expenditure will also be used. We commit ourselves to budgetary rules and apply a clear expenditure ceiling and revenue framework. We are still following the rules of a trendary fiscal policy. The budget moves along with the economy during the cabinet period. But the course has shifted to give room for investment as well. The trend in fiscal policy remains the standardized and trusted compass on which we sail. As a follow-up, Mr Grinwis asked about the financial arrangements in the forthcoming Spring Note. As usual, you will hear me say that very often this evening or over the next few weeks, I fear the Central Planning Bureau will come up with a bill in March, the so-called CEP. On this basis, the Spring Note will be drawn up and the final frameworks will be established, as set out in the Start note. Part of this is, of course, the decision on the distribution of the burden. This is done with the so-called burden framework, to ensure, or to prevent, the burden from rising or falling more rapidly than previously agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	There's been an interruption. I'll allow six per person in this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u11	The Minister acknowledges that this Start note looks at the edges of fiscal policy. We're going to a very large public debt. My question to the Minister is whether she also recognises that the ECB should be able at all times to raise interest rates, perhaps even substantially, in order to avoid inflation. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u12	That is not a question of recognition. The ECB shall be independent. I think that the ECB will come up with a new weighting in the spring. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank has already expressed an opinion on the importance of phasing out the various packages supported by the ECB in the context of corona. A new weighting of interest rates is therefore needed. But De Nederlandsche Bank is independent and so is the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u13	Then we agree. I'd like to present something to you. We're probably going to a 90% government debt. The CPB passed that on. The interest rate on public debt in 1991 was more than 9%. It was almost 10%. We also had 5% in 2008. This is a simple calculation. Suppose the ECB is forced to raise interest rates in the future perhaps to the 9% or 10% it has ever been, do you acknowledge that we will then have to pay huge interest on our sovereign debt? Then it becomes untenable. Because if you pass it on, for example, we will have to pay 9% of GDP interest on sovereign debt. That's six times the defense budget. Surely you must agree with me that the Netherlands cannot even pay for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's right, if your assumptions were correct. First of all, the ECB is likely to increase the interest rate in the first instance by a quarter of a percent. Secondly, in recent years the Dutch State has been careful to extend the loan period to eight years. For the time being, therefore, a large part of our sovereign debt is already settled. Thirdly, of course, we always look at how we stand. It is not just a matter of 60 billion dollars that is being borrowed from the climate fund or the nitrogen fund, if that is perhaps the allusion. That's slow. There is always a look at the budgetary frameworks that exist. So, no, what you're quoting is a very theoretical case. To go from X% to suddenly 9% or 10%, we need to have a huge and different problem in the world economy, especially in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u15	I wish it were theoretical. I'm talking about the longer term. That 90% is in 2060. It's about 90% government debt in 2060. My point is that the interest rate on public debt in 1991 was 10%. Surely you have to acknowledge that in 2060 we could be back at 10% interest rates, even with the small steps you are talking about. Isn't that when our public debt is unsustainable? You're going to... You swim...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u16	The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u17	You leave the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u18	The Minister swims.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u19	Through the chairman. So you let... No, the Minister, thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Council, let the Netherlands dive into a trap, by setting us on a path that will bring us to a 90% public debt and perhaps with an interest rate that really needs to be raised, which will have to go up hugely in order to reduce inflation in the future. Does the Minister recognize that? Then we're gonna go into a trap, aren't we? Does she recognize that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u20	The verb "recognize" is often used. That looks like you're some kind of... I'll say it's about working from facts and logical scenarios. Let's do that. You use the 90% figure anyway, based on a rather linear credit transfer by the CPB. We very much appreciate the CPB's credit transfers. But the cabinet is filling in the reversals in the care package. That choice was made by the Cabinet, but it was not yet included in the CPB's credit transfer. If this happens in the coming period, you will in principle reach 75%. If you also include the investments in education and climate approach, you will reach about 67%. If you also look at this cabinet period, we are around the period when the coalition agreement was signed at 56%. You say it's 90% by 2060 anyway. You're sticking a fictional, very high percentage number on that. I have the impression that that's what you're doing to raise a little alarm. I can imagine, if that's how you hear it. Then it seems as if the cabinet over the next 40 years is very unwise and as if there are no other developments. Yeah, that's how I can do it! Now, I'm going to go through the accounts of the Central Planning Bureau and see what the Cabinet has done. We are very close to the wind, but we do apply the budgetary frameworks. Of course, from De Nederlandsche Bank, the European Central Bank and the Ministers for Finance of the eurogroup, this is always looked closely at. But making such a leap in the dark towards 2060 with a fictitious interest rate is very difficult to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u21	One last question. You call it a leap in the dark, but we call it looking forward. Let me ask this last question. I understand that you cannot answer it immediately, but perhaps you could look at a scenario in which in the future, perhaps 20 or 30 years from now, the interest rate will be 10% again. In 1991, it was 10%. How can we finance our public debt? Maybe that's what you'd do as some kind of worst case scenario...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u22	Maybe the minister would be like some kind of sausage case scenario...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u23	...................................................................................................... I understand that it cannot be answered immediately, but perhaps the Minister would like to do so. Well, that's my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u24	I can imagine other scenarios that may be more interesting and relevant until 2030. But I will come back to it in the second term. Then there is the development of public debt. The cabinet has made a clear choice for investments in the future. There's a price on that. We just named it, and yesterday, too. Grosso mode there are two ways: increase the burden or increase the debt. In the eyes of the cabinet, a good balance has been found. They are investments for the future and for future generations. From this point of view, we consider it justifiable that we should increase public debt. This is also a choice made by the cabinet for young people. I say this to Mr Omtzigt, who asked a fair question about what we do for young people. Climate transition and investment in education: that is all for the future generation and for their opportunities and security. It brings costs, but from our point of view we do not burden young people with unsustainable public debt. We are doing the investments they can benefit from. Mr Stoffer asked about the government's objective of public debt. In addition to the investments, the rise is also justified, as far as we are concerned, given the very healthy starting position that the Netherlands still enjoys. But, of course, we are also taking very seriously the criticisms that Mr Stoffer referred to, such as those of the Council of State. I've had conversations about that, too. We are therefore taking the necessary measures to limit the flow. There is also a mandate for the cabinet to actually achieve the objectives set. So that's what we're taking with us. If we want stricter budgetary arrangements, the money must come from somewhere else. That is, of course, also the debate with this Chamber. However, higher burdens are borne by citizens and businesses, thereby damaging purchasing power and the locational environment. We consider this undesirable. In short, it is not possible to achieve all objectives equally at the same time. It's been complicated choices. This coalition agreement has reached the limit of what we can afford financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u25	A question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u26	On the previous point. The Minister indicated that if she wants to comply with the budgetary rules imposed by the cabinet itself, care must be cut. This means saving care over the next few years, or at least reducing the increase in these costs. She says: we're going to do that in a way where quality goes up. It gets affordable and better, she indicated. But the Central Planning Bureau says otherwise about the cuts in care for the elderly: it leads to less care or less quality care. I would therefore ask the Minister not to turn this into a rhetorical game and just to be honest and just to admit it here when the cuts in care for the elderly are going to lead to painful measures. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u27	I am already in block four, but I understand the link made by Mr Alkaya. It has been mentioned many times, also in the debate on the declaration of government, that the image of savings in the care of this cabinet during this period is not correct. At the end of this cabinet period more money is spent on care than at the beginning. Additional investment is also being made in the short term, but I think Mr Alkaya is also aware of that. In the longer term, we must be able to slow down the growth of healthcare expenditure. This cabinet period is being invested 3.5 billion extra. The growing demand for care, also in the light of ageing populations, fortunately, we can all grow older than we did a few decades ago, and in the long run the accessibility, quality and affordability of care is also under pressure. We want to see how, in the long term, care can also be of high quality and enlightenment. There is a scenario that in 2060 one in three people will work in care. I also have doubts as to how we are going to make that possible. It is important that we look at other ways of providing good care in a way that is humane, accessible and high quality. I think it is right to repeat that we are not cutting back in this cabinet period. Additional investments are being made, but there are also redirections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u28	In total, yes, but the Minister cannot deny that even during this cabinet period, parts of the care are being cut. I'm talking about child care and care for the elderly. That's just in the plan of the Central Planning Bureau. And the CPB also indicates that it either leads to less care or less quality care. There are people who work in care, read this and then worry. And then they hear the cabinet and the minister playing rhetorical games all the time. That's not good. If savings are already going to be made in this cabinet period, as stated in the report of the Central Planning Bureau, for example in the care of the elderly, admit it. Because then there is no discussion about it. Then it does not seem like we are kissesing about words here, but it actually affects the lives and jobs of a lot of people. We have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yeah, we've made a different assessment. This isn't a rhetorical trick. I do not have long enough in Dutch politics to make me guilty of this, I fear. The point is, I've made a different assessment. I've named the way we look at it. We differ in that respect. Perhaps Mr Alkaya does not think it is necessary to keep the costs of care manageable. I'd like to hear how it's gonna be by 2060 and how we're gonna do it. At the same time, I'm back on block four now there's youth care. Mrs Maatoug and Mr Alkaya asked questions about the government's views on the problems in youth care and how half a million dollars could be saved. Mrs. Van der Plas also asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u30	You mean at least half a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u31	Half a billion, I'm sorry. The ambition of the cabinet is to improve youth care together with the municipalities. The Secretary of State for Taxation, the Secretary of State for VWS and the Minister for BZK will discuss with the municipalities. In the end, we also want to provide better care for this population, especially for young people who need very complex care. We all care about the terrible waiting times. This is impossible in a country like the Netherlands. We also want a system that is sustainable in the financial and human sense. That is at the heart of the reform agenda as I understand it. In order to improve youth care, together with municipalities and field parties, a set of measures is being developed, taking into account, among other things, the scope of youth care in terms of quality and effectiveness. You may not have been surprised, but I was rather shocked by the numbers. Since decentralisation in 2015, the total cost of youth care has increased from 3.6 billion to 5.5 billion in 2019. It may well be that so many young people, which scared me in particular, really need this kind of help. That's something that should concern all of us. But we also need to see how we can make structural funds available to the municipalities. That is what we have done, in line with the Committee of Wise Men. The municipalities are compensated for the sharp increase in youth care expenditure. I think this is entirely justified. But it is also assumed that there is room for additional measures up to 100 million in 2024 and up to half a billion in structural terms. In particular, the coalition agreement talks about the possibility of normalizing treatment hours or looking at a possible parental contribution, a contribution of its own. Of course, it depends entirely on who it is, what the background of the people is, and whether they can bring it up at all. Because money must never be a barrier to accessing this kind of help or other medical care. It's an incredibly difficult task. The conversations are about to start. I think that we really need to wait and see how the parties involved in these talks can be held by the cabinet, the municipalities and the field parties. That is the government's commitment at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u32	Finally, on this subject. The Minister admits that, at least for the youth care sector, less money will be available for the next cabinet period. And she tells her mind back there. I do not agree with that, but at least it is clear. Something similar is happening with care for the elderly. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, after all, whether we are talking today about the finance of the cabinet or whether she wants to confirm that it is not about the money. I would like to hear that the money that the cuts in youth care and care for the elderly in the coming cabinet period would not be necessary at all in order to get the rich budget through. If it is to the detriment of the quality that the Central Planning Bureau warns about, we simply should not do it. Then we must leave the cuts aside and always leave the quality at the top of our agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u33	Yes, in general terms, we always have to look at quality, efficiency and efficiency, but in the end we also know that we have a limitation within the budget. We foresee an unprecedented increase in expenditure. And the key question is always: do young people get the care they need in time? That's something that concerns all of us. I think we all know young people who are in trouble and who are victims of long waiting times. Young lives have also been lost because children could not be helped. I am the mother of four children, everyone in the room has brothers, sisters, parents or children: we all know young people who have been affected. So yes, quality always comes first. But I regret that Mr Alkaya is proposing it as if it were a calculation exercise. We're just looking at how care can be provided in a way that young people join. But unfortunately, the money is still not infinite. It must also remain affordable. That is a search and that is what this conversation with municipalities and the parties from the field is so important for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u34	The PvdA considers responsible fiscal policy to be very important. That's why we showed with GroenLinks alternative choices. The Minister's compliments for our work are in our pockets. Former Prime Minister Drees said that not everything can and certainly not all at once. I ask the Minister how she is going to shape budgetary policy, now that purchasing power is under so much pressure. The VVD has already said that savings may need to be made, the Minister said on Friday, when she replaced the Prime Minister for the first time, at the press conference that the investments will be maintained. I am afraid that the people at home who are unable to pay the energy bill will soon become the child of the account if a fundamental review of the tax system is not chosen to increase the tax burden on property and the tax burden on polluters. Otherwise, you'll never have enough money to carry out those purchasing power repairs. I am curious to see how this should be reflected in budgetary policy, which I am also in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u35	May I ask Mr Nijboer to come back to that in block three? I can also mix up all the pieces, but block three is about purchasing power, inflation and rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u36	I understand that, but I am asking this question precisely because of budgetary policy. The Minister also replied to the budgetary anchors. These are really key questions. It's not about 500 million for this or that. Purchasing power is about which groups and when. However, this is about policy. If it is said that everything has to be covered and then the VVD says that we have to cut back, while the Minister says that all investments are maintained, then that is something other than a purchasing power question. That's why I'm asking him now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u37	I'm glad you looked at the press conference, Mr. Nijboer, but I think it's a selective quote. I said that we should always look at the calculation on the basis of the CPB, the CEP figures, and that we should look at the position of the most vulnerable, whether it is the energy bill or the bill. Of course, the cabinet had started with the intention of achieving a positive and balanced purchasing power picture for all sections of the population, in particular low incomes and middle incomes. We have to look at this now, also on the basis of the exogenous factors: the situation in Ukraine and the total uncertainty about gas supplies from Russia and what we are going to pay for it. That's exogenous. Perhaps Mr Nijboer could have said: you should have anticipated that. We didn't do that in the lodge. But it's a very important issue. I just don't want to anticipate it. I also wanted to say that we cannot compensate everyone at all times. That requires careful weighing. I also think, bearing in mind the discussion about box 3 or property inequality, which I also hear Mr Nijboer about, that we should not want that with each other either. That's what I said. I think that's my answer right now. I'm not going to anticipate choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u38	It doesn't get much clearer to me. I agree with the Minister that you can't compensate everyone. That's unbelievable. If you're all getting poorer, you can't. The VVD did file such a motion in the coalition, but, well, we're gonna see where it's gonna end. But the Minister also says that we are sticking to budgetary rules. All investments remain in place. The VVD says, "Well, let's cut back." We see that, even if you only meet the vulnerable, it will cost billions. Last year it cost more than 3 billion. It's gonna catch up. Then what's the Minister thinking? The PvdA and also GroenLinks think of taxing the most wealthy and taxing polluters. Is that what the Minister is thinking? Or she says: the budget is just very limited, so people have to deal with it; it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u39	To be honest, I'm sorry. Mr Nijboer is an experienced economist, an experienced financial spokesman. I think he has had a hand with Mrs Maatoug in the counter-budget. We constantly say from the cabinet: yes, we are, of course, very concerned about high inflation. Maybe it'll get even higher. A lot of people are getting worse. That was absolutely not the intention, because we are committed to a positive and balanced purchasing power picture. But we really need to make choices and discuss them on the basis of the new macroeconomic estimate. Then you can go and see if there are any changes that are necessary and how we're all gonna arrange it. I think you should give the Cabinet that time. It is also, of course, the case, if you look at the action options we have this year, that many things are already in place. And the purchasing power picture is actually about 2023. So anyway, the Minister of SZW talks with us, as well as the Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation. There are a number of ministries involved and we all have to look from the cabinet to see if what we wanted is still possible. There may have been changes; what choices are we going to make? But I just don't want to anticipate that. That wouldn't be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u40	You're often too early as a Member of Parliament. But if it's already been decided, you're too late, because then it's already been decided. I think you can just see this coming. And we're serious politicians. There's a big purchasing power problem. Then there are a few options: whether it is covered or covered, for example, you can make savings or it is done in the state debt. But the Minister says, "I'm sticking to the budgetary rules." We thought the purchasing power section of the cabinet was bad. This is even worse due to inflation, because there has been no fundamental reform of the tax system. We have presented alternatives to this. I ask the Minister: what direction does the cabinet take? Moreover, I believe that even this year more can be done for people who are now in a vulnerable position because of the energy bill. So that's another point. But above all: what direction does it go? I believe that, in a debate on the Start note, more clarity and a process response can follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u41	But that clarity is a process, because I think we will have to weigh it very carefully. In fact, the final conclusion on Mr Nijboer's suggestion would be to break the coalition agreement. It could be. This is perhaps very desirable from the point of view of the opposition. But I still like to do that on the basis of the latest figures. On the basis of that pass-through, we can see who gets hit the most, what we can do and what choices we want to make from the cabinet. That is what we want to discuss with the Chamber. That's appropriate. That's how we've always done it all these years. It is precisely in crises that it is important to keep the frameworks, but to be able to look at the content. But I have a lens and an eye for the vulnerable; I have said so many times. Of course, there are many families who are now extremely concerned, who are no longer able to make ends meet or who are at risk of falling out of the boat. We all have to weigh that seriously. We need to see if we can help and in what way we can best help. But six weeks after my arrival, when we do not yet have the macro-economic pass-through, you cannot expect me to make all kinds of suggestions that have not been calculated. I haven't had the trade ministers round yet. They're also going to tell me how their flukes and setbacks might be processed. So the overall picture of charges and revenues is incomplete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you for the presentation. I do believe that this Minister is aware of the needs of the lowest incomes; she has made that clear. I also understand that you don't have all the information and that you want to wait for it. But I heard her say something about the investments for the climate fund and the nitrogen fund, a little bit between the rules. If I remember correctly, those investments will be reviewed at a time. I would like a clarification of whether it fits within the framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u43	No. Then maybe I haven't been sharp enough. That was in response to Mr Van Houwelingen's question when it comes to borrowing for the benefit of the funds. That's what I was talking about. The climate fund and the nitrogen fund still have to pass the Chamber. The Court's budget law is fully respected. At the moment, the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen are working on the substantive proposals. It looks at how they can get to work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u44	Thanks for the answer. I understand that the loans for that fund are being looked at at a time. But could the Minister make some kind of prediction for the terms of these loans in a letter or at a later date, perhaps in the spring note, or at least a best guess, a best estimate? This is because these increases in interest rates may well prove to be true. So we need to think a little bit about scenarios, because the costs of climate policy or nitrogen policy can be enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u45	I'll come back to this in the second term. This is more about the role of the state agent and that's divorced. But I can briefly explain this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u46	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u47	The Minister indicated that she is going to make investments to address overdue problems that are urgent and felt in society. That is what she is doing for future generations, and we must of course praise the Minister for that. But my problem is on a different level. This minister has allowed that there is simply no cover for that. It's not an art at all to collect a lot of taxpayers' money from everyone and spend it. But what I would like to appeal to the Minister is: why did she not take adequate cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u48	Because the minister was not yet a minister at the coalition agreement at the negotiating table. That's a practical suggestion. But more importantly, we want to invest. We have been systematically addressed by the European Commission, including in the country-specific recommendations, about the lack of investment. This was the time to say: we look up that space more, because it is possible. This cabinet period is still within the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact of the 3% and 60% standards. So it was a wise time to do so this way. I understand, however, that Mr Azarkan says: should you no longer look at pricing and standards or be able to arrange it in a different way? But these are the political agreements we made as four coalition parties with each other. I understand very well, also from the counter-budget of PvdA and GroenLinks, that there are other ways. But these are the political agreements and we stand for those investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u49	That means the honest story is that it's just the easiest way to go. I also said in my plenary speech that this is the easiest way to go: just take a lot of money and put it into practice. There are rightly other means: standards or prices for the polluter. But that is still not at the heart of my question. In the pass-through of all parties, but certainly in the D66, we see everywhere that around 2060 there is 58%, 59%, 60% public debt. Why has it now been chosen to let go of that and to come up with policies to spend so much money that it will increase by 72% to 90%? Isn't that irresponsible? So I ask the Minister, through you, President: wouldn't it have been much wiser to raise money by looking at how to tax profits from companies more, by looking at people who make a lot of money by wealth or by income from wealth, but also by looking at how to cut off the mortgage interest deduction for very high incomes? If you do, you'll tell the next generation that you have a solution to that. Why didn't you choose that, I ask through you, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u50	I think it is important that the ideas, directions and political choices made in the coalition agreement are here. They have been translated into the Start note. The frameworks we set out in the agreements are leading. And I say to Mr Azarkan that there are four parties at the table. We made these choices with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u51	Then this minister should also tell a more honest story to young people. Those young people are already suffering from enormous debts because of that debt system. They're already struggling that they can't find a place to live. That's what it's all about in every conversation: young people can't find a place to live. Isn't that what this minister contributed to in the previous cabinet? That didn't happen on its own. So these kids are already having a hard time. Now there is a cabinet that says: very well, we are going to tackle very urgent social problems, but we are going to do so in such a way that it means that these young people are going to be able to clean up the mess in the future. In the end, the account will have to be paid at some point. It is simply not right that this should be pushed forward and shifted to the next generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u52	In reply to Mr Azarkan, I should like to say that is your assumption. Ours is another one. We invest in tackling climate change. We invest in high-quality, quality education, because the Netherlands has failed all rankings. We invest in the opportunities for professionals. On the contrary, we are investing again in the earning capacity and capacity of many young people, making them better. There are also, of course, a number of assumptions that have rightly been made in the CPB transfer. But we think the income effects will turn out differently. I honestly think that young people with better education have so much more opportunities. They have so much more possibilities as the housing and construction agenda of Minister De Jonge can be implemented by, among other things, the approach to nitrogen. Then there are so many other possibilities ahead. But that's why we need to get to work now. Investing in the approach to nitrogen is directly related to the living environment. This is directly related to being able to build houses, homes and apartments for all generations. So it's connected. I regret that it will be reduced to: you will pass the bill, so you will do nothing for young people. It is an investment for future generations. That's why we're doing this. That is why we consider this to be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u53	Finally, just a moment. Again, the honest story is that it is good that this is addressed. You should've done that before. It's a catch-up. We knew the nitrogen problem in 2010, when Bleker was still responsible. It just hasn't been done. The housing crisis saw everyone coming. This has not been done enough in recent years, and it is now one of the biggest challenges we have. It is good that there is a lot of investment in this. It is good that young people get air to live, even if it is only because they have suffered enormously under corona for the past two years. But here's what I'm gonna say. I think that is something we should expect from the Minister of Finance. All these investments mean that the budget deficit does not fall to 28%, as calculated by the CPB, but increases to 72% to 92%. I can also see that until 2026 only 21 billion is actually spent. That 65 billion is all after that. But I think it is fundamentally wrong that this finance minister did not say: I want the proceeds for investment to be collected now, from companies, from people with a lot of money, from people who make a lot of money and from companies that pollute a lot. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u54	I think that the whole discussion on property inequality will really be pursued this period. This is not only because of the lens of box 3, but of course also with the ibo that will arrive in spring, before the summer. These are important points on which we can also discuss with the Chamber what changes may be necessary and for which there is a political agreement. But I'm not gonna break the coalition agreement here. You'll understand. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u55	A great deal of concern has been expressed, and we too are concerned about public debt, the state finances. That's what's in here. If you look at the figures at the moment, it is true that we remain within the European budgetary rules for this cabinet period. But if we look back, we've had a banking crisis. We're having a corona crisis. We can't say we've had it, but hopefully it's pretty much over. Then we'd have financial space and when that crisis was over, we'd go back to somewhere between 40% and 45% of public debt, related to our GDP. We're not doing that right now. Now we really go to the edge, almost 60%. What if there's a next crisis coming up? Then we won't have room to do anything. We can assume that sometime in the coming period something will happen again. We already have a setback with box 3. That is all for introduction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u56	Pooh, pooh.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yeah, you need a little something once in a while, Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that she shared my concerns and also the concerns of the Council of State, the CPB, the Court of Auditors and so on, and that this was taken into account. It's nice that that's taken away, but what does that mean in concrete terms? What do I see somewhere in the spring paper of the Cabinet, when the Minister says that she really takes these concerns from me, but above all from the Council of State, the CPB and the Court of Auditors? What can I expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u58	Then I must disappoint Mr Stoffer. Thank you for your kind words, but I must disappoint Mr Stoffer. I'm not going to anticipate what you might expect. I want to see the bill first, very boringly. I want to see how the reversals in care can get their effect. I want to know if the municipalities and, of course, the cabinet members have started a conversation, and so there are many of these steps. When it comes to future generations, for example: Minister Dijkgraaf is in conversation with many youth organisations and students. For example, there are a number of parallel tracks, but in the end it is important that I look at the whole budgetary picture of the budget. We have also been in conversation with the Council of State and have said to the Council of State: we are reading some of your observations, but these are the choices we have made. As you know, the Netherlands is within Europe with three or four other countries around or below 60%. Now the examples of other countries are not necessarily an inspiration to us, so I would like to reassure Mr Stoffer immediately. But we see that we have failed ourselves by investing too little over the past period. In this respect, some of the comments that have been made on housing, tackling climate change, the catching-up effect, as I myself have said, are justified. We're in the middle of a big catch-up. Yeah, it costs money. And yes, we have chosen to standardize and price. Minister Jetten was here earlier. But we have also chosen to borrow, because under the current conditions it could still be done, to deal with these major challenges. The choices we make are different from the SGP that, I think, would have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u59	Yes, because the SGP stands for the SGP. I have one specific question, because I understand that I will only get an answer in the spring note. Will it also include the fact that we are building buffers again for another crisis? We don't know what it is. The others happened to us of course, but we had always built in a spare. Financially, we were able to act because we had a buffer of 15% to 20% within the space that the European budget rules gave us. Will that scenario be taken into account in the spring note?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u60	I think I have made it clear that we are systematically pursuing budgetary policies, so of course we are also looking at them. It is also the case that we need to reduce budgetary discipline again. In corona time we have spent more than 43 billion, rightly, on all the support, support packages and so on for everyone who needed it, to keep people on their feet and to keep the economy somewhat running. This has resulted in better economic growth than expected. Of course we also want to build buffers for the future, but we have made a different weighting. Our goal wasn't to be at 45%. Our goal is to make the right investments for the future. That is also a way of creating a buffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u61	My question concerns budgetary policy and the frameworks. As I understand it, the frameworks are now being established. They will then be for a government period and in there it must all be done. This is the moment. I'm glad we're back together tonight. Many questions were about the spending frameworks. I see a conservative chamber. We're all freaked out that we're gonna do beautiful things in this country. But what I found very striking is the difference between the expenditure framework and the burden framework, the revenue side, because there is little going on there. This minister is proudly defending the coalition agreement, but my question is: is it true that the burdens in the next cabinet period will not change in their entirety, because the framework is already established?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u62	Of course, there's already one change coming. I'm talking about the big setback in box 3. There must be a solution to this. Yesterday, there was extensive discussion with Secretary of State Van Rij on the revision of the tax system and capital inequality. They're looking at it, but it's gonna take time. He's coming in a direction at the beginning of April. We need to look at what that's going to mean for the expenses. But I also understand Mrs Maatoug's question. It's about power inequality. Why is no more progressive tax introduced? The review... No?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u63	No, those were other questions. I thought they'd come back later in the block. I was really concerned about budgetary policy. This was an answer, but not an answer to my question. For the clarification: yes, we're going to talk about box 3. That falls out of the framework, so you have to cover that again within the policy area. We have had that debate. My question is about the framework within itself. Is it true that this is the frame? I'm talking about what comes in, especially in relation to what we spend. Is it true that this is the policy of the cabinet in the coming years and that the framework is not going to change?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yes, but I am not going to anticipate, for example, an unprecedented crisis. Maybe Mrs Maatoug can ask the question right away. In fact, she is asking whether we are going to change the burden side, or whether we are going to increase it, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u65	That would have been a nice question, but that was not my follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u66	I thought I'd get ahead of myself. I think we're going that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u67	Is this my last interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u68	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u69	Okay. My follow-up question in this block on budgetary policy is: can this Minister of Finance explain how it relates to each other? Over the last 20 years, capital charges have fallen. We see a narrowing of our income base. I find that very striking, especially in view of the expansionary policy, which depends to a large extent on whether you are doing well in terms of quality. I support that, but then the discrepancy is very large. My question to the Minister for Finance is: what is the logic behind such a large imbalance between the revenue framework and the expenditure framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u70	These are the choices we made. Yes, as far as the cabinet is concerned, we are now establishing the final frameworks. But the logic is the course we have chosen. I would like to hear from Mrs Maatoug what she sees as illogical. There are, of course, things that we do not change, but the legal minimum wage is going up. We have also made a number of changes. There are a lot of measures that are being taken and that are changing. I believe that the deeper question, as I understand it in all the debates with GroenLinks, is actually about a different way of organising the burden. That is not what we intend to do in this cabinet period. You heard the same thing from Secretary of State Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u71	I love to explain how I like it. Reference has already been made to our counter-budget. The reason I'm asking about that logic is because I don't get it every time. That scares me a little bit. I'm assuming there's a logic to it. I'll just fill out why I'm asking. Our spending, which we are about to discuss in the block of broad prosperity, is very important for this country, for example in the field of education. In 30 or 40 years, we still have to invest in education. Those aren't temporary expenses. I hope that we can continue to provide the quality services in this country, the things we do with each other. It's not about money, it's about the things we do with it. But if you don't get enough in on the other hand, you consistently choose to reduce certain burdens over the past twenty years.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The reason I'm asking is because I don't see that logic. I was hoping to catch it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u72	I have certainly understood Mrs Maatoug's original question. That reassures me again. We're having a very fundamental discussion. It's a different assessment. It is basically a comparison between the counter-budget and the Cabinet's Start note. We make other choices. We opt for other funding options. But I think there is one big difference: the costs of climate and nitrogen are occasional. The planning agency measures them and appreciates them as structural, but these are incidental expenses. For this cabinet period, of course, we are setting this framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u73	Several people have now talked about the power inequality. The Minister himself gave a few words about this. My colleague Ephraim had a nice debate on this with Mrs Gündoğan in the first term. They didn't come all the way out. Mrs Gündoğan said that power inequality has increased enormously. You'll hear that on the left side of the hall, of course, continuously. Research by Peter Hein van Mulligen of the CBS shows that this is not the case. Koen Caminada of Leiden University has also said that it has not increased in the last 30 years. If you take the pension capital, there's nothing wrong with it; then it even decreases. So the question is really: does the Minister agree with BVNL that it is really not that bad with that power inequality, and that the picture sketched out is really not right at all? That is fundamental to the choices that are going to be made during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u74	I was, of course, in the exchange of views between Mr Ephraim and Mrs Gündoğan. I think it's important that we take a look at how much power inequality is in this country. That is why we have that ibo, which is led by Laura of Spirit. As Mr Klaver pointed out in the debate on the declaration of government, there are many studies. But we think it's important that we look at the ibo now. Then we can have the debate. I'm not going from the extreme "it's a total disaster" to "well, it's all okay." I would like to wait and see the ibo and, on that basis, see where there is power inequality, whether it hinders opportunities, how you can further reduce the inequality of opportunity in this country and what that means. Mr Van Haga did not mention his own house. There is, of course, also a great division in society. Especially since the houses increase in value so exponentially during this period, this is a major source of inequality, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u75	That is interesting, because the increase in house prices, according to the research, leads to less property inequality, because many houses in or for the crisis have been bought too expensive and then under water...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u76	If you can buy a house, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u77	No, of course. Now the situation is different. Of course we are also happy to wait for that ibo. We therefore hope that pension assets will be included and, of course, house prices will also be included. Then let me ask the question differently. Does the Minister agree with me that a healthy or at least substantial capacity inequality is essential in a merciful capitalist society such as ours?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u78	Well, I find it very difficult to say that power inequality as a starting point belongs to mercy. We look at justice, equality, equality and equal opportunities. This cabinet's investment in, for example, education and a number of other choices serves precisely to promote equal start-up and self-development. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Hopefully you'll find a better position than the one you started out in. But to say "power inequality belongs to a merciful capitalist system"... There will always be differences, but I don't think that's the best we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u79	Finally. This is a little bit worrying, isn't it? I may know the minister differently, but I think we mean the same thing in the distance. Surely you will have to allow some capital inequality in a merciful capitalist society? Otherwise, everybody gets the same thing. This is very different from odds and odds. It's about power inequality. People are ambitious, go to work and earn money after a few years. Then you have to allow power inequality to occur, don't you? That's fine, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u80	Of course, there are two things. There will always be income differences. There will also be unequal outcomes. Even at the same start, there are uneven outcomes. I think, in general terms, that there are differences in the way in which we have organised our economy and in the way in which salaries have been organised. So I also said that there will always be differences. But "merciful capitalism" is perhaps a thoughtful translation of what Mr Van Haga said. I believe that this is a society that is humane: where the rule of law protects the vulnerable, because the resources are made available for it, of course, we are looking at capability inequality; hence the ibo.................................................................................................................................................................................. But we must also acknowledge the following. You can see again in corona time that children suddenly come out of the crisis with other outcomes, because they are having a hard time at home. This will require additional support. That's what you see on all fronts. Of course, that's what you see when you look at people who have lost their jobs and how we can support them again to go from work to work. A lot of measures are needed for this. If that's what you see as merciful, I like it. But I think it's more important for the government to be tough on this. Mercy is usually the charitative thing, but I do not think Mr Van Haga means it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u81	We are talking about budgetary rules. I wonder how the cabinet deals with setbacks. Because this minister has been in the saddle for six weeks now and I've already got it on the back of my magazine just as quickly calculated for 8 billion in setbacks. From Europe, that is 1.3 billion from the Recovery Fund. From the fund of Timmermans, the Social Climate Fund, that is 1.1 billion. Yesterday, a motion was passed in the First Chamber which regulates the link between the AOW and the statutory minimum wage. This is also a setback of 2.4 billion for the cabinet. With regard to box 3, there is another setback of about 3 billion. Of course, we also have inflation and the red figures in terms of purchasing power. How does this cabinet, this minister, deal with these setbacks in the light of the budgetary rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u82	The frameworks remain leading. Of course, we're going to talk about that in the Cabinet. Because you are right: there are a number of setbacks. Mistakers are usually things you don't foresee. We're gonna have to deal with that. We're gonna look into how we're gonna fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u83	I am asking this in the light of the budgetary rules. Because I hear this minister too often confuse income and expenditure. The deal is: if we have a setback of 3 billion in box 3, we will solve it on the revenue side and not on the expenditure side. Are these budgetary rules still in force? Or are they just going to go into "" because that's what I heard the Minister say from the spring note? Do you still have a bit of the free hand and is it pinned down from the spring note?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u84	No, the frame is fixed. But they're asking for box 3. Secretary of State Van Rij has already said that this should in principle be resolved within the domain. Normally, that is also within this cabinet period. But we don't know yet what the size of box 3 is. So I just don't want to anticipate that. I also think that we should resolve setbacks within the existing budget. If you ask us if we are going to spend any more: that is not my expectation, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u85	I'm a little surprised. "Climate expenditure, for CO reduction, are occasional." Of course they're not. Because this government, and especially the minister of D66, is aiming for net zero reduction. So even after this reign, a further downward path must be set in motion. My guess is that's not gonna be free. This will require additional investment. But that question is about the setbacks. If there's any setbacks, they run away from the deficit. It says seventeen times in the Start note how windfalls are distributed, but the word "faults" is only in it six times. This is mainly due to the shortage. What happens if the setbacks really end up in a budget deficit above 3%? Then how is that gonna be fixed? Two. I've asked for a list of those setbacks. 'Cause we gotta get started. We know that the box 3 setback runs into billions. It's not going to be solved in that domain. I don't know how you do that. The compensation for the victims of the surcharge falls by billions. There is an additional billion payments to the EU. There's a billion less coming in from NextGenerationEU. There may be 10 billion in coronamil trillions left in the taxes that have to be written off. I didn't find them all, so my question is: can we get a list of the expected setbacks that are going to be processed? That does not have to be accurate to the euro cents; I understand that. What do we do with setbacks above 3%? How many have we got?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u86	I remember Mr Omtzigt's question very well. I even had the report examined, because I remembered that you wanted to do so for this debate. But that's not how it was written down. Well, I'm sorry about that, too, but it helped me. Frankly, we are not yet able to give an overview. That's the other answer. There are a few known setbacks, but there may be more. We also don't know if there's any luck. As soon as we know that, we are going to talk, as Mr Omtzigt knows that no one else knows, about how to sell it. But we do so in an integral balance, both on intensification and savings. I hear very much the question of clarification here. Mr Van IJck also says...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u87	Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u88	Van Dijck, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u89	With "ck," too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u90	Oh, yeah. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u91	That's the fancy version.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u92	The dean of this committee. We need to see how we're gonna do that. That takes place at the main decision-making moment. As soon as we really understand what the setbacks are and what the size of the setbacks are, I can communicate them to this Chamber in good time. But at the moment we are not in a position to do so. We're just getting started on the calls and inventory.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u93	I'm just waiting for the answer on the setbacks of over 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u94	That's a good one. Of course, we have the standards of the Stability and Growth Pact. It is true that the escape clause still applies formally for this period. But I don't want to say by definition: oh, we're saved by the escape clause. I think we should just look very carefully at that. The cabinet has made itself strong not only in its own country, but also in Europe, that 3% is one of the two anchors. We have called on other countries to do so. We have to look at how we deal with this ourselves, but I cannot anticipate whether we will get there. My hope is, of course, that this cabinet period too will remain below 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u95	This surprises me a little bit. Now it looks like we're waiting for a list of setbacks. The moment you start with a cabinet, you expect to have an overview of the starting position. Based on that starting position, you're going to make policy. In the first, the best debate we have with the Minister of Finance, it is said that we have no overview. If we do not have an overview now, I predict that we will not have an overview at any time throughout the cabinet period. That was the whole idea of a start note. My second question is this. Can I just have a firm guarantee here that the cabinet is striving to comply with the 3% standard? I ask that so harshly, because at the moment, when we look at Ukraine, the risk of a major negative shock on the economy is greater than the risk of a major positive shock. The former Foreign Minister didn't happen to start that. So, unfortunately, it is not a kind of fictional example. This is what we're in, I'm afraid. Can I assume that the 3% standard will remain the starting point of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u96	Those frameworks remain in front of us. If you're asking for a 100% guarantee, I can't give it right now. Mr Omtzigt also knows that the spring decision-making process is really the main decision-making moment on which the cabinet can see what the windfalls and also the setbacks are. Of course, we didn't count on box 3. The fact that the recovery and resilience fund's contribution would be less than 1.2 billion is a known setback, but it was not expected. Of course, that was already included in the Start note. I don't think it's right to pretend that we're here for the first time... The Ministry of Finance is one of the oldest ministries. That's what this is all about. It's not like we're suddenly completely surprised. I describe purely the process, as it always starts. I think we should take that space right now. And perhaps Mr Omtzigt knew how quickly the situation about Ukraine would deteriorate, but I do not think so either. This has implications not only for energy prices but also for inflation in the broad sense. There is also the fact that we have more delays in supply in the chain. This also has an impact on price development. These are all factors that cause us to have other setbacks as well. I want to map them carefully, and we will take that into account in the choices that we then have to make with each other. But the budgetary frameworks are leading and we will have to pay this off. The aim is, of course, always to stay below 3% and also to look at debt write-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u97	Then there's just one more interruption, although I don't have enough. But I'm just surprised. In box 3, the state lost trial after trial, and as early as the cabinet negotiations there were two opinions from the two lawyers generals, and they both said: you're gonna lose this. The verdict was just a little different from Niessen and another one I lost the name of the second one, but there was really no one in the tax world surprised that the State lost the box 3 court cases. If that was a surprise, then the people who were negotiating were the only ones who were surprised. And the same goes for the coronamil trillions in taxes. We know that the VVD did not accidentally come up with a plan, whether it is right or not, that there is a big tax deferral and that some entrepreneurs are not going to be able to repay it. I expect we have a real picture of that. I expect that real picture, because we are now putting forward the purchasing power decision-making process. We're constantly pushing everything back. And there's something else coming. Indeed, you have not seen Ukraine and I have certainly not seen it as big as it could be. I get that. But if we all shove that back... Mr Van Dijck calls it inflation. I would have anticipated more inflation, but I would not have gambled 7% in all honesty if you had asked me last year. I had actually seen that more than 2%, but not that 7%. But if we move all this forward, then we arrive in June and then we do not make a decision and then we have minus 5% purchasing power. Then we have no overview of the budget and that is the worst thing that can happen to the Minister of Finance. So how does she get us to make decisions about where we stand, about what the purchasing power is and about what we have, and at what times does she do that? Is that the end of March, after the Central Economic Plan? When do I get that exact letter to the Chamber? Because then those decisions can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u98	There is this year as far as the process is concerned... In times of possible deterioration, or as they say, when the wind blows hard, you don't have to move per se, but you have to see what the course is. We have a systematic budgetary policy. We are now looking at what are the windfalls and setbacks that need to be eliminated. We need to see how we're gonna do that. Mr Omtzigt says that the cabinet should have seen the ruling of the Supreme Court on box 3 and the system coming. We note that, but in the meantime we are at the point of finding the right solution. I think you've heard Secretary of State Van Rij, too. And then there is indeed the debate about the enormous tax debts of many entrepreneurs, who are deeply concerned about people. How can this possibly be addressed? That's all part of this process. There's nothing new about that. I agree with Mr Omtzigt and other Members of this Chamber that we are actually in a very paradoxical situation. We were looking forward to the end of the corona period and the relaxations. The economy is opening up again and society can live again. But there are a number of major setbacks that we need to weigh, and we also want to invest. But rest with the pieces and then we come up with the choices. And then, of course, we are once again in a debate with the Chamber. Normally you will be informed about the windfalls in the Spring Note. You will normally receive it, according to the Compatibility Act, no later than 1 June. But I understand from Mr Omtzigt that he wants to know this earlier. So I'd like to get back to it in second term what is physically possible to deliver the data earlier. 'Cause that's part of it. I share the concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u99	I feel like we've already had a block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u100	Well, I've done a couple of cubes in between, I guess. Anyway, I'm still in broad prosperity, the end of block one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u101	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Raan asked how I am prepared to implement the integration of broad prosperity into the budgetary cycle. I think I named it yesterday and a number of times before how important it is to me. It has already been addressed in the recent Millions Note, but perhaps not enough in the eyes of the questioners. There is also a 2020 Van Raan motion to give the broad welfare indicators a permanent place. As Mr Van Raan and Mrs Maatoug know, we are now trying to see how we can further integrate this. This is also based on the Hammelburg motion and the Klever/Ploumen motion. The Broad Prosperity Monitor and the set of key indicators of the planning agencies will be important publications. The latter are, of course, relevant, because if we could use these key indicators, it is also good that the planning agencies can look into how they can find their translation. It appears that the integration of broad prosperity into budgets and the setting of broad welfare goals still faces challenges. I know that I can count on Mr Van Raan's understanding if they choose the right direction, as I understand the discussions we have had. We need to prepare this cabinet wide carefully and see what technical choices are possible when you look at the preparation of budgetary documents. You will receive a letter prior to Accountable Day explaining to the Cabinet how we think we can already give this a first greater impetus. If it's enough, I'm afraid to say. Anyway, I think we're making a big step. There was also a question from Mr Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u103	May I make a point of order? I have a rather difficult feeling in this debate. Every question that comes up is said: we are not going to anticipate that now, that will come up with the spring note or that will come up in the future. We are talking here about the Start note and we are talking about a number of concrete issues. We are the Dutch Parliament, so I would very much like to have more answers than I do now. Otherwise, I feel like I'm in the wrong debate, Mr President. So as far as I am concerned, we are now getting concrete answers. If they are constantly being pushed forward, we should stop now and wait until the Spring Paper, which I do not think should go this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u104	Honestly, I'm a little surprised. Two weeks ago, the first term of office was postponed, very understandable, in the interests of Members of Parliament who had to find their peace and regularity. I fully respect that. It is well known that the final settlement will be taken into account and that we will know how it will work out, especially when it comes to purchasing power cards. We heard the discussion about the linking of the AOW. We have also heard the criticism of savings in youth care. And we have heard the criticism of the reversals in care. I'm here to defend the Cabinet's opening note. I do not quite understand whether Mr Stoffer already wants me, as Minister of Finance, to anticipate discussions that we still have to have in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u105	I don't have to anticipate every conversation. We are talking very specifically about box 3, for example. That's not the first time we've talked about that today. That really is a concrete problem that is coming towards us. Basically, it is said that we remain within the budgetary objectives, but it is unlikely to succeed. I would at least like to hear some concrete thoughts: it can either be this or that. Then we can talk about it and then we can find something about it. Then I can also try to give a bit of direction from Parliament about what we support or do not support. Now it's always: wait or wait for the spring note. That's my problem. I would like at least now to have scenarios and concrete proposals, not in the second term or in the spring note, because we have already been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u106	But around box 3 there was a separate debate with the Secretary of State. You know that Secretary of State Van Rij is looking at the size of the group, the period, the form of recovery and how it will be financed. That is simply not ready and it has not yet been discussed in the cabinet. I'll give you a directions letter. Let me give you an example of this. I do not think it is possible for me to anticipate the work that the Secretary of State has yet to do in the area of Taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u107	Last time on my side. If I'm the only one, so be it. Let the colleagues give their opinion, but I feel that I cannot go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u108	I share that feeling. A start note is at the beginning the translation of the financial agreements from the coalition agreement. If it's okay, the government stands for the financial agreements in the coalition agreement. That, over time, something changes: of course. Of course no one had foreseen the situation in Ukraine and of course there will be a verdict and there will be a setback somewhere. That's how it works. But I now have the feeling that the Start note has been thrown away and that it is said: we will see where we stand in the spring. I would have liked to know the starting position from which we work. That starting position is not clear to me. The next item is the order of business. Is this the starting position of the policy or will we have a new starting position in June and should we then discuss what we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u109	This is the Start note. This is indeed the start of our policy. However, the Chamber itself asks how we are going to deal with all the setbacks, how we are going to deal with the passing-through, how we are going to deal with the impact of inflation on purchasing power. It is so careful to await the Macro Economic Recognition. That's what we have to do. It would be very unusual for us to anticipate the transfer of funds by now. After that, I think we will have another debate at an appropriate time. The Start note is very clear. To be honest, I am a little surprised because this is a long-standing process that can be assumed. The unknown aspect is the setbacks. I understand. In this short period of great uncertainty, I have a great deal of respect for the Chamber which follows this closely and gives great criticism. It's part of the job. However, we stand for the reversals in the care. We stand for the discussions that are going to be held on youth care. Last week, the cabinet also said in the First Chamber that there was a motion on this issue that remained the one-off decoupling of the AOW compared to the increase in the statutory minimum wage as far as we are concerned. But there's been a motion on it. You are asking me to process all kinds of things already and to show you what the effects are going to be, when we have not yet been able to make the political weighting after the dates. The Minister for Social Affairs is, of course, also looking at the purchasing power picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u110	I think the Minister's position is clear. It's up to you to decide what to do with it. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u111	In addition to the words of colleagues Stoffer and Omtzigt. The inconvenience is that I can't get more information than what's in the Start note. The Minister says that it is all there and I do not have much to add; the next option is in the spring with the budget and the draft budget. If that is it and if we cannot talk about what is in between, namely the ideas of the Chamber that can still be picked up and that we can still talk about, then it is not very useful what we are doing now. Then it is a different, general answer to every question and we might as well go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u112	I think the minister marked her position. The Chamber must then decide what to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u113	I'm just using an interruption with your permission. I do not need to suspend the debate, because it is important enough. I would have written before my second term that it seems like we are having a false debate. That is the problem of substance. The Minister says that the frameworks are in place, and I am sticking to them. However, the coalition says: there will be purchasing power repair. The VVD says we might have to cut back. However, the Minister says that all the expenditure we agreed on in the coalition agreement will remain. While there's a list of setbacks that make you miserable. So we get answers that just can't go together. That is why Mr Stoffer is getting a little worried, and so am I: we are standing here with a finance minister who puts all kinds of things together, which can never be right together. I understand that the Minister does not say: we are going to make this cut and we are not going to make it. But I think that the Chamber should be given a little direction in this debate. That is what this debate is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u114	I find it interesting what is suggested, but it is simply not correct. I told him we'd have to wait for the wire transfer. I have said that I take the Chamber seriously in the themes she acts on. We have referred to the opposition budget. We discussed what the huge setbacks to gas prices, also due to the crisis in Ukraine, mean. But everything requires careful weighing. What I hear is that the Chamber would like to hear from this minister that we are about to pre-order. And I won't. Of course, I said last week: in principle, we are in favour of this publication and we are looking at how we are going to solve the problems. But I simply refuse to go along with a discussion in which I, as a cabinet person, would already be making choices on behalf of the entire cabinet. That requires a conversation, a discussion in the cabinet based on the data. I don't think there's anything new about that. That's gonna take a little time. And it's not that much time. We are also told of the collaborators, including the trade ministers. There's just nothing new about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u115	I told you two weeks ago, it's a bit of a fake start note. The world looked very different two months ago. We'll get the bill in two weeks. The Minister refers in almost every reply to the transfer. Fourteen more days of patience and we've got the bill. Wouldn't we just agree: we get the CPB billing on 9 March, you make a new Start note and then we're talking about the Start note? Because now we always get the Minister's answer: that depends on the transfer of purchasing power. Two months ago, there was 7.5% inflation. No one here would have dreamed that, just like the other setbacks we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u116	I'll wait for the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u117	What strikes me is that in this debate the cabinet defends the Start note and says: yes, there are developments. Then political groups will vote on it. That's what I did. That's what my colleagues on taxes have done. We do not want box 3 to be solved in a way where workers and consumers have to pay the bill. That is a view of the D66 Group. Today, in the debate on the energy bill, we have said: look also at the energy bill of vulnerable people when the government looks at purchasing power in the spring. That is a statement from the four coalition groups. The cabinet also responds to us: thank you, but we are going to look at it when we have the estimates, and we know whether there will be any disappointments or disappointments in the budgets, because we do not know that yet. I note in particular the following. It is quite logical that coalition groups should tell us what they want to give for later, as well as opposition groups. But apparently the opposition finds it very complicated that we have not already sealed everything and that we are all telling our own story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u118	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u119	I'll see where I am. There was a question from Mr Heinen. He asked what is going on with the previous cabinet's commitment to come up with a proposal to make the decision-making process in the Spring paper................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr Heinen is right: the Spring paper is an important document. We also want to make that understandable and, of course, understandable to everyone, including for readers outside this Chamber. This spring, the cabinet intends to send a multiannual Spring note to the Chamber explaining the proposals made by the cabinet. This is also a response to the advice of the Council of State to improve the information position of the House of Representatives. We've worked out options. The letter will certainly come in time, in the coming weeks. But I do want to be realistic: perhaps not everything Mr Heinen asked, namely whether finance could share further details, is possible, because the decision-making process - you want to see the background documents - should not, of course, touch the unity of government policy. But I don't think that's the way it's meant by Mr. Heinen either. It is about getting the right information in time, to participate in decision-making. We are still looking at how we can functionally decorate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you. For the record, I did not ask for all the documents behind it, precisely because the negotiations within the Cabinet must be confidential. My point was that I asked for more transparency in the decision-making process. In the spring note, however, the Chamber gets the documents on how the extra money was distributed. Then you'll see where the money goes. But you don't see the trade-offs on the basis of which it's decided where the money isn't going. I think it will also help in the debate here in the Chamber if you also give an insight into the choices that are being made as a cabinet. Let me give you an example. In the previous Spring note, a considerable amount went to youth care. In itself, that was understandable, also in view of the reports that were there. But there were also setbacks and bottlenecks in, for example, the Defense Department. Then the question is how one cabinet weighs both problems and why one is chosen and not for the other. In fact, the Chamber has little insight into these bottlenecks. The Court of Auditors also pointed that out. Mostly when it comes to late maintenance, the Chamber has little insight into it. But in 10 years, you're gonna see a hole. Then it helps if the cabinet gradually, with the Spring Paper, reports better on that. It was not specifically a question about the underlying pieces. I'm making my point now. My question to the Minister is: is the way in which the Chamber is more taken into account in the considerations included in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yeah, that's the idea. Many thanks for this clarification. That also makes it easier for us to set it up really well. Then there was Mr Van Weyenberg's question to start the discussion with the CPB on the credit transfers. I think that's what he asked for yesterday. The answer remains the same. The independence of the CPB remains paramount. We would like to see how the analyses can be seen in their context, because as far as we are concerned, the economic models do not include all aspects of broad prosperity. Perhaps the key indicators, if we include them in the budget cycle, will be helpful in this respect. The classic examples are, of course, education and climate, but not just that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u122	I absolutely do not want to enter into the independence of the CPB. The CPB is also always very open about the limitations of the model. But I'm curious what the climate debt is in money if we don't do something. What happens then? Two. The fact that educational investment does not have a return on the model is a fundamental weakness, which also puts investment in education at a disadvantage if we make political choices. I'd love it if it got a place in the model. I hear the Minister on independence, and I respect that, but I think it is wise if both the Ministry of Finance, the Minister, and us as Chamber, continue to make this point consistently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u123	Obviously. Thank you. Then there was a question from Mrs Van Dijk about the contingency protocol: how can we deal with it responsibly and involve the Chamber? In the case of unforeseen expenditure, of course, the starting point is always that the Court knows this in good time. Mrs Van Dijk knows that, too. There are many incidental supplementary budgetary laws which have been sent to the Chamber for the last two years in particular. There will be a letter on the evaluation of the accountability system. I shall deal with proposals for the identification of unforeseen expenditure. I think that's gonna help us in the future, too. But, of course, the financial agreements in the coalition agreement also apply to unforeseen expenditure. Mr Van Houwelingen asked why this cabinet is abandoning the pursuit of a balanced budget after seven decades. I have already mentioned that we see ourselves as an investment cabinet, but that we do attach importance to a balanced budgetary policy. This is also in line with the opinion of the 16th Study Group on Budget Space. We apply the rules of trend budgetary policy, with predefined expenditure ceilings and revenue frameworks. It has been the same budgetary policy since 1994. I don't know if it's seven decades, but the same rules apply in that respect. Before the Netherlands pursued this trendary fiscal policy, budget deficits were the rule rather than the exception. Nor was there always a clear decision-making process, so let me advise. I do not want to be an arbitrator, but this is in contrast to Mr Van Houwelingen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u124	This is such a point. Look, if at some point we follow all economists, and everyone who has something to do with public debt, and say: we invest 81 billion in corona time and then we add 75 billion, then we end what we call 'protective fiscal policy'. That's just a determination. If the Minister says that it is not and that it is exactly as we have always done, then it is simply not. So we're talking a little bit past each other. Of course, it can't be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u125	Corona is, of course, out of the box, even if you look at decisions at European level. The escape clause was there for a reason. It was there to take that space, because if many governments, including us, had not done it, the situation would have been much worse. Vide the good economic growth rate of the Netherlands. The pandemic is an exceptional situation. But Mr Van Houwelingen's question was that we have let go of a seven decades' ambition. I say that we have the same budgetary policy. Corona has indeed created a different situation. But I think it's a different idea, to put it this way, when you're talking about the exceptions that were made during the two years of the pandemic. These exceptions have also been discussed with this Chamber. In my view, many motions have been tabled by this Chamber with requests for support for all kinds of groups, rightly so, and for the extension of aid packages. That's quite right. These are all choices that have been politically debated, with the support of this Chamber. As I recall, that was broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u126	It's really distinctive. I find it truly extraordinary that this Minister says: this is not an expansive budgetary policy. I'm not talking about the 81 billion for corona support. I'm talking about the 75 billion this cabinet spends on top of that in the years to come. In its own period, that is only 21 billion. But far after this cabinet rules, the money that the CPB says can be classified as "structural" continues to be spent. I think it is a good thing that we do not enter into qualifications by such institutions and that we also accept their independence. But I find it worrying that our finance minister says: this is responsible budgetary policy. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u127	They're choices. Mr Azarkan now adds the adjective "expansive." I told you at the beginning, we're an investment cabinet. And yes, we sail sharply to the wind. But it remains a trendary fiscal policy. That's just clear. There's no change in that. Mr Azarkan is calling in the corona crisis to show that so much money has been spent. I will say: yes, we have used the escape clause, as drafted at European level. Of course, we are looking again at the importance of building buffers. There's been a lot of talk about that. Of course, we're looking at that again, but the economy needs to be open. We have to turn. People need to be able to get to work. We have a very low unemployment rate. That's a good thing. But we have to keep going. I find it very easy to bring back all sorts of things and pretend to have a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u128	Surely the Minister must acknowledge, in order to use the verb'recognize' again, that it is taken into account that public debt may rise to 90% by 2060? For example, the Maastricht Treaty applies the 60% standard. Surely frameworks are being released like we haven't seen in decades? Surely something very special is happening, if only because 90% of public debt is counted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u129	You are ahead of 2060 again, I understand that, but I think we have settled that discussion. The CPB envisages an EMU balance of -0.27% in 2025 and an EMU debt ratio of 65.1% of GDP. In doing so, this cabinet period will comply with the deficit standard of up to 3%. But Mr Omtzig was right to ask: how is this going to develop? The debt standard of the SGP is up to 60%. There is indeed tension with the preventive arm of the SGP and with the Dutch medium-term objective. It's in a different block, by the way. The Council of State has asked us to indicate in the spring how we look at this. That is what we will do when we come up with the letter on the stability programme and how we look on the basis of the full CPB transfer. At the moment, the general escape clause of the SGP still benefits us. That's right. Mr Van Houwelingen is right about that. We do not know how the European Commission is going to look at our commitment to budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u130	Where are we in terms of cubes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u131	That's a good question. I'm at block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u132	Are you going to start or are you already working on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u133	Well, let me see what's already taken off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u134	I'm just asking because I'm looking for a nice natural moment to go to dinner somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u135	I shall now start with questions about the funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u136	Is the hunger beating already with the members? Not yet? Then we'll continue for half an hour, but we'll suspend somewhere for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u137	I want the Minister to respond to all those economists who say that this is stupid budgetary policy. It is a pro-cyclical fiscal policy. If you invest a lot while unemployment is already very low, you'll never get those people. If you invest a lot when inflation is already very high, you drive inflation. This Minister's budgetary policy is oil on the fire in terms of inflation and therefore purchasing power and hence employment, so it is very stupid budgetary policy. Can you go into that again? Or let some good economists advise you better, because this is just stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u138	Well, that's very nice. That remark is on Mr Van IJck's behalf... Dijck, with the d of stupid. However, there have also been many other economists in this Chamber who have just said: this was a sensible choice of the cabinet, because we are lagging behind on investment, we have overdue maintenance. We're not keeping up with what's needed, and you can tell by the deterioration. The fact that the deficits we have are a problem in implementation must be recognised by everyone. How to solve it, how to deal with it in the building agenda, in the housing agenda, in education or in childcare, are indeed major issues. I have that and the cabinet does not yet have a simple answer. But there have been many economists here, at a round table with you, who have just given a reply and who have said that these are wise choices. Yeah, it's sharper on the wind, it's more expansionary, but it's necessary. Then you can say "I choose this variant or I choose the other one," but this is the choice made by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u139	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u140	I'll start with the head of funds. There's been a lot of talk about it. It is important to see how we make the most effective and targeted use of the resources we allocate to achieve the goals in this way. We need to see how we can quantify and whether the measures contribute sufficiently to achieving the goals. The General Court has delivered important opinions. The Council of State has also discussed the importance of proper preparation and parliamentary control. For both climate and nitrogen, we will have to make the following choices. Together with the Ministers for Nature and Nitrogen and for Climate Policy, I will take Parliament fully into account. How do we set up the funds so that we achieve the legal goals? The goals per theme are clear. For the climate, we have a clear CO reduction target by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. For nitrogen, there is a clear legal target in 2030. The questions are: what steps should we take, how do we stay on course and how do we adjust? How are the concrete projects and measures that are funded and how is this done as objectively as possible, through independent expertise or a transfer of funds? The most sharp criteria are going to help us best. We must, of course, also ensure that we monitor the coherence between the different parts of the funds. The coalition agreement already contains an overview of planned climate investment. For example, much investment is still needed for the future energy system, but it always requires choices and considerations. For the Spring note you will receive a letter with the first thoughts on the development of the funds. That will not be complete, because we want to take the Chamber with us. We have also heard the Chamber well when it comes to examples. Look, for example, at the Delta Fund or the Mobility Fund, perhaps more than at the Growth Fund, as we have heard. There will also be a taste of a budget in line with the Hermans/Segers motion. And we want to find ways to hear the Chamber through technical briefings or other conversations and also take the criticism there is about setting up the funds. For both funds, the cabinet will submit an institutional law so that it can go through full parliamentary treatment in this Chamber. We believe that this is a guarantee of parliamentary control. Of course, that's what's being looked at. The funds see in the medium term and are therefore more than just this cabinet period. We invite you to share your thoughts on these funds. I hope you will when you receive the letter. Mr Grinwis asked whether the cost of the climate fund of 35 billion could be lower as the price of energy and CO is currently high. Mr Grinwis knows like no other that spending money is not an end in itself. We want to meet the climate targets. Mr Grinwis is right to say that sustainable investment is more profitable if CO emissions and fossil energy are more expensive. It may indeed be that less public expenditure will be needed to achieve climate change. We only want to spend the funds from the fund if they are needed. So it is not a question of "money-seeking project," but there is a considerable expenditure. The establishment of the fund must be careful of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u141	I have another question on the previous point, because this answer was very clear, for which I would like to thank you. When does the Minister expect the institution law to be in the Chamber for these funds? In the meantime, how does the Minister deal with expenditure intended to get out of that fund? It may be cost-effective and sensible to make short-term investments. How does the Minister intend to organise this and how does she intend to involve the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u142	In principle, on the basis of a number of proposals here, this process will initially run through the budgets of the relevant ministries. Work will be carried out in parallel with the Institution Act. This is done through the usual parliamentary channels. Mr Grinwis' second question was: when? I just need to confirm that in the second term. The tasting must be there at least before the start of Princess' Day. So I'm assuming that's gonna be for the summer recess. Mr Stoffer asked how realistic it is that the new funds are occasional. Mr Azarkan and others also asked or made comments. Both funds are intended to help shape the large transitions on the basis of concrete goals and a sharp design. We see this as a one-off substantial investment in order to achieve this. But Mr Stoffer, Mr Azarkan and others who have made this remark are of course right when they say that climate and nitrogen need permanent attention. We believe that the scale of the task and the extent of the transition are such that it is necessary to use an occasional fund for this purpose. In the long term, of course, it will have to fit into the regular budget. Mr Stoffer asked how the cabinet came to the amounts of 25 and 35 billion. The EUR 35 billion for the Climate Fund is a sum of the funds needed by the Cabinet until 2030 for the sustainability of the built environment, the construction of renewable energy infrastructure and the support for the scaling-up of renewable energy sources. The report of the Van Geest Committee entitled Destination Paris formed the basis for this. The 25 billion reserve for the nitrogen fund is based, among other things, on the results of transfers of administrative policy packages and on a number of analyses made by knowledge institutions. These reports were already shared with the Chamber in November of last year and are therefore available. Several members asked whether a fund would be desirable for expenditure. Mr Stoffer, Mr Nijboer and Mr Eppink asked about this. How do we intend to set up the funds carefully? I think I just named this unless I forgot something. We share with this Chamber the importance and concern of very sharp and well-framed governance. Mr Van Weyenberg wanted to know whether we could also speed up. Yeah, I just said that. We do this through the institution law and at the same time we anticipate the assumption or the institution through the budget funds of the relevant ministries. But there must first be projects and programmes that have been approved. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked why the cabinet would wait for the fund to make tailor-made arrangements with industry. We're not waiting for that. I believe that you or others have just had a debate with the Minister for Climate and Energy. The preparation of the measures will take some time. We are, of course, involved in the review, from the well-known words 'efficiency' and 'effectiveness'. After that, customization is important. We also want to see how we can achieve additional CO reduction. It says 55%, but the sum of CO reduction measures is 60%. The ambition must of course be to get there. Mrs van der Plas asked me whether I agree that geographical distribution and a rural test should be part of the government's assessment. Yes, we really do take into account how the socio-economic effects of policies work out and, of course, how this relates to the choice of measures and projects in the region. This is particularly about the area-based approach within the nitrogen fund, even if you look at the commitments in the areas of climate, nature and water quality. I don't know if Mr. Van Dijck would like to ask anything, Mr. Chairman. But you're ignoring him, so I'll do the same. I'm almost there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u143	Yeah, but if you're gonna call him, I'm gonna get encouraged again. You shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u144	I shouldn't have done that, excuse me. I've got three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u145	But he's making us all a little nervous; I'll admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u146	Well, maybe that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u147	But you're gonna finish the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u148	Yes. Mrs Van Dijk asked me how I could oversee expenditure beyond the funds. It is the traditional role of the Ministry of Finance to look at responsible spending. I'd say that's why we're on Earth. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, which happened to be celebrating its 100th anniversary last year, oversees the budget management of all trade ministers. The plans of budgetary funds shall be reviewed. It always looks at the use of public resources in an efficient and effective way, and whether this is the way to achieve the goals. There's nothing new about that. But Mrs Van Dijk's question was actually about the funds in particular. Of course, we have to sit like a goat on the oatmeal box. It is a new model, there is a lot of money in it and we have little time. I therefore see Mrs Van Dijk's question as an encouragement to pay particular attention to this, including through frequent reports, and to adjust it if this is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u149	Was this the cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u150	I've got three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u151	Let's do three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mrs Maatoug asked how I would avoid wasting taxpayers' money and how Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act is used for this purpose. All resources, all taxes, must be used as effectively and purposefully as possible. As far as the funds are concerned, that is quite clear. The arrangements, governance and the support of the cabinet's plans should also make this clear to the Chamber, so that the Chamber can exercise control over the breadth, but also through monitoring and evaluation of the proposals. Mr Grinwis asked how we are going to prevent the threat of under-exhaustment at Rijkswaterstaat and Defense. I think this question is actually even wider. I am, of course, looking at colleagues' ambitious plans. They're cabinet-wide. Finance has a special role to play in this. And yes, the implementation capacity available is, of course, one big issue. I have already pointed this out to Mr Van Dijck. We are also introducing an investment ceiling, which explicitly shifts the focus to milestones rather than exhaustion on an annual basis. That might help, but it might not be the final solution. Mr Grinwis also asked about the implementation power to realise the plans. As I have just said, the current shortages in the labour market are simply a challenge. There's no way around that. I am curious to see what the trade ministries and employers will come up with in order to fill these deficits in a temporary way, if necessary, and the ways in which they are envisaged. That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u153	I'm curious about those funds. Because we are now pretending to spend 35 billion on climate and 25 billion on nitrogen. Both of us as PVV didn't have to do that, but just for the layout. Now I read in last September's Millions Note that there are already a lot of climate spending in the budget, i.e. 35.6 billion, and 7 billion for nitrogen, added up during those years. In other words, until 2030, climate spending exceeds 70 billion, 76 billion to be precise. The question is: is this going to go out of the 76 billion for climate change? These are actually the same objectives and the same measures. Does the same apply to nitrogen? You're gonna get 7 billion in the nitrogen budget and 25 billion in a fund? Or are they merged into a fund and coordinated by one ruler? Otherwise, it's gonna break up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mr Van Dijck is asking a fair question. I would like to answer them in the second term, because then I can also show the differences between what has already been invested through the Millions note and what additional measures are being invested in accelerating the approach through the Climate Fund and the nitrogen fund. I would like to make this clear on the basis of a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u155	Very briefly. I have looked at these measures. Those measures were mutually exclusive. There was, for example, an amount for the isolation of houses, I am just saying, but in the fund there will soon be an amount for the isolation of homes. It seems to me as useful as that would be one measure and one amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u156	I'm glad to see you're on board. That's kind of nice, by the way. Yeah, that's what you gotta reward, isn't it? Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u157	My experience as a politician is actually limited to the Growth Fund in terms of funds. I'm not that excited about that, because we don't have an institution law yet, but half of the Growth Fund has already expired. In an interruption just now, there was a discussion between Mr Grinwis and the Minister, which showed that it will not be the case that we do the institution first and then spend it. Actually, I was hoping and asking. I understand that something might happen before that. Could the Minister indicate... I would like to hear: we do not, because the institutional law comes so quickly and we deal with it so quickly that it is not necessary. But suppose that's true, what order of magnitude are we talking about? Are we talking about a very large proportion of the fund, or are they really very limited expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u158	I have to go back to that in the second term. I have to check what both the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Minister for Nitrogen and Nature already have in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u159	Then we'll do it in second term. Can the Minister put the turbo on short and pointy so I can suspend for dinner after her term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u160	I was done with block two. Do you want me to do block three?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u161	Yeah, that's in line with expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u162	Of course, I have to comply with a compelling request. We now come to part of the discussion we have had before. So let me take a look. This is the block of inflation, purchasing power and burden-sharing. Mr Van Dijck, Eppink and Azarkan asked about the distribution of purchasing power as a result of inflation. They asked what action the cabinet is taking. I do not think I need to repeat that, of course, we find that very worrying, because it is particularly shocking after a period of historically low inflation. Some of you were so thoughtful to say that they did not see this height coming either. There are, of course, temporary factors, as already discussed. I am referring to the higher energy prices that can become much higher than that and the disruptions in the supply of products. The European Central Bank has now recognised that inflation risks are increasing, but the interest rates are not adjusted for the time being. In March, the ECB will review this, also on the basis of new estimates. I think the President of De Nederlandsche Bank has been very clear. In this whole discussion, we must, of course, see how compensation is possible for those who are most vulnerable in the coming period, including the Cabinet. Mr Omtzigt indeed asked about the maximum loss of purchasing power that would be acceptable for people who rent, retire or live in a drafty house. We are indeed in a situation now that we are looking at collective welfare loss; hence the very careful weighing to see what is possible in what way. We also look at what choices we may have to make differently. I will not repeat the famous estimate, but we really have to wait for that. There are other choices where we also want to speed up, of course. The Minister for Climate is now, of course, also looking at how investment in the National Isolation Programme can contribute to making homes less drafty and to reducing the energy bill in the accelerated period. If you live in a drafty house today, this message is of little use to you, but it is policy choices that we must also stand for. In the previous period money was made available in response to rising energy prices. We also looked at various options at the time, such as reducing VAT on energy, as the PVV suggested. At that time, in 2021, a one-off reduction in the energy tax was chosen. You know that. That was 3.2 billion. The Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation is now working with the municipalities to award €200 per household, which is particularly vulnerable on the basis of income and living conditions. That happens through the municipalities. Mrs Den Haan asked about the purchasing power of the elderly. Yeah, we're looking at that. We are also, of course, looking at the proposals made by the parties to the debate on the declaration of government. The final weighing will be translated into the adopted motions of the MPs Heerma and Marijnissen. At that time, too, it was promised to look at it in the Spring Note. Charges and abilities. Actually, that was also the discussion at the beginning. We must, of course, look at the distribution between high and low incomes and those who really cannot come along. The CPB has shown that income inequality will decline as a result of the coalition agreement as a whole, especially by increasing the minimum wage. In the choices we have made, of course, we have also looked at the transfer of assets between generations by abolishing the extended grant exemption, i.e. the so-called jubelton, for our own home. But there are just big concerns and we take them seriously. Mrs Gündoğan asked for that too. He also referred to conversations between her and the Chamber and former Secretary of State for Taxation File Letter. Mrs Maatoug also asked questions about this at the beginning. Secretary of State Van Rij also gave to "Maybe he's also a good viewer of Sander's program and Sander Schimmelpenninck's gorge "that it's a good illustration that also wealthy people start to feel uncomfortable about the lack of ability. But the ibo research is really important to look carefully at this. To be honest, we have had a lot of exchanges on this at the beginning. You're looking at me, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maatoug asks why there are no purchasing power figures for 2020. That's the same story as it was in the beginning. The last economic forecasts of the CPB were in the draft budget in September. That was the result of 2022's purchasing power figures. They were published. We must now, of course, wait for the next meeting, and I am afraid to say so, but it is the truth: new macroeconomic forecasts. Mr Omtzig asked which country has a higher marginal rate than the Netherlands. As Mr Omtzigt knows as no other, the tax system has a number of objectives: balanced income distribution and also the collection of money and the promotion of employment participation. Most of the arrangements we know have been designed to achieve this, but we are also building up regulations. This ensures that this does not overtake public finances. However, the consequence of the phasing-out paths is to increase the marginal pressure on this income path, which reduces the incentive to work. Mr Omtzig asked: which countries? Well, according to the OECD, countries such as Belgium, Germany, Sweden and Denmark have a marginal rate that is comparable or higher than the rate in the Netherlands. But I think Mr Omtzigt already knows this answer. It remains a balance between the different objectives, because it is not yet possible to pursue all three simultaneously. The cabinet is looking for a balanced balance. The experts will say from the marginal rate that it depends on a number of factors. Comparing internationally seems difficult, but, frankly, I do not dare to judge value.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u163	You know, what makes the picture so diffuse is that the group chairman of the largest party in the country says that everyone should get a plus, no matter what the situation is. In the previous debate, i.e. in the first term of the Chamber, I again asked the VVD whether that is still the commitment and that is still the commitment of the VVD. In this debate, I will also put that in a motion, so that there is no doubt about it at all. But the Minister of Finance says in the media: I cannot make promises at all. The confidence of this country in the cabinet is so low, that anyone who hears it will of course think: of course nothing will come of it at all. I ask the Minister to confirm today that that is still the goal. Look, she can't make promises like she actually does. That is what we, as a Chamber, are ultimately about. We must discuss this again, because we can also propose additional measures ourselves if the cabinet does not come up with sufficient measures. I also have every confidence that that will happen. But is the Minister of Finance prepared to say today that it is still the purpose of this cabinet to give everyone a bonus, regardless of inflation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mr Alkaya is right, but a great deal has happened in recent weeks. I think it is always good to take a careful look at what has been said in response to which. So Mrs Hermans said in the Chamber, and this is from the coalition agreement, that we are striving for a positive and balanced purchasing power over this cabinet period. The reduction of the burden is mainly aimed at reducing the burden on low and middle incomes. This has yet to be completed and is now temporarily completed for the purposes of the CPB transfer. However, in the meantime, inflation has increased and the situation in Ukraine has developed with the effects on energy prices. These facts have changed so much that I, as Finance Minister, have been retained to say, in response to a media question whether I am still going to do so, that I am not going to make any promises. Of course, we are looking at it and, in particular, we are looking at the vulnerable. Especially when we have the pass-through and when we know whether and how the interest rate is going to rise, that's the fair story. That does not affect the Hermans motion for a positive and balanced purchasing power picture. That is also stated in the coalition agreement, that is the aim. The promise that I'm going to do that is something else. It is also responsible politics to dare to deliver the more difficult message. The aim is, of course, that. There's no light in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u165	I just lost it. I just really lost it. On the one hand, we have Sophie Hermans, chairman of the largest government party, who says that everyone has to move forward. Then we have the Nibud that calculates it and says: well, of the 130 groups, 130 go backwards, mind you, with an inflation rate of 3%. This means that inflation will have to fall from 7% to 0% this year in order to reach 3% on average. That seems optimistic to me, let me add. Everyone's going backwards and we're gonna see where the setbacks are first. We're waiting for the Spring Note, we're waiting for the Central Economic Plan, and we're waiting for an ibo study on capability inequality. It doesn't heat a stove. Yeah, from the studies, maybe if you throw them all in the fire. For the rest, you can't heat up a house. What is this government going to do with the acute problem that has arisen? And how does she deal with those households that don't make it and completely sink through the ice, sometimes with a loss of purchasing power that rises to more than 5% if you live in a draft rental house? Or are we just waiting for it to explode in people who get kicked out of their homes and end up in debt recovery and at the food bank? Because that's what's gonna happen in six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u166	I think we all really share the concerns that Mr Omtzigt has expressed. I don't think it's his intention to pretend that the cabinet is going through some kind of professorial exercise here. It is important, however, that Mr Omtzigt will agree with me, as an economist I believe that we are really looking at how we stand. The Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Poverty Policy are already looking at and understanding what this means, so that we have the overall picture. Then it is possible to switch quickly if necessary. I don't think it's the time to expect from me already that we have A, B, C, D and E intelligible, because we really need to have them together for a while and weigh integrally. This is ultimately also a political discussion. You have already heard it through one of the interruptions of one of the parties. One wants to compensate through plan A, the other through plan B or plan C. Those are fundamental weighings. Of course, it is a task of the government to look at the vulnerable and indeed to prevent people from getting into misery, let alone in debt, or being placed out of their homes. We must also be very serious about this; that weighs extremely heavy. It is now February 23rd and on March 9th we get the bill. Then a lot of things are insightful. Of course, we're already working on how we want to deal with it. But I cannot make public statements here in this Chamber, because not even a cabinet position has been determined. This is a cabinet-wide weighing. I ask for Mr Omtzigt's understanding of this, and I understand his message of urgency. We all share them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u167	9 March is almost a year after the elections. And we happen to have a government that is made up of exactly the same parties as the government that ruled before the elections. Now you could deduce from the last few lines the impression that these parties are new. They're not new. They've been in the same ministries for the past six months. They've been able to see which setbacks were developing. While we have the Start note, it looks like we're going to study for months now to understand the state of the country. That's impossible, isn't it? There must be an idea now: this is the state, we make these policy choices; you may think you have better, but there are always difficulties. But I'm surprised at this. I know we're not gonna get the answer right now. It's a little late now and too difficult. I ask what policy choices the cabinet is prepared to make this spring. Or are the only policy choices large expenditures on nitrogen and climate funds, but do we forget the citizens who are currently in total trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u168	No, I think this contrast does not do justice to an investment cabinet, to the fact that we weigh the current situation very heavily, but that it is also responsible policy not to turn the wheel right away, even if it is very disappointing. We need to see what choice we can make and what the consequences are. That's gonna take a little more time. With all due respect, it's February 22nd now. We have about 13 days and not 13 months. It is not much time, but it is important that we have that data and use the time within the Cabinet to arrive at our own weighting in a dual way. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, there are very different assessments of how the solution direction can be chosen, for whom and in what way. That also requires political consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u169	The confidence in politics and in the cabinet is already very low, but as the Minister of Finance talks about fixing purchasing power, she actually prefers to say that you have to dare to give a bad message: this year is actually already over, we are talking about 2023 in spring. Actually, she says to the whole of the Netherlands that she's at home now: sit in the cold, grab an extra blanket, put on a sweater, because this year the cabinet is not going to fix anything. We all see that people have to pay an average of €1,500 extra, so almost €3,000 for their energy bill. The CBS did the math last week. This minister says to those people: don't count on me, maybe in 2023; who lives then, who takes care of them. But there won't be a repair this year. Is that right? Well, then, you've got to be honest with me. Or are you saying you're gonna fix it this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u170	There are 50 ways to say the same. What I am saying is that we stand for policy, that we look at the vulnerable, that we look at how we can fit the solutions within the budgetary frameworks on the basis of the data, and that the Netherlands understands that you do not do so on the day rate, but that you do so responsibly. Because every choice is a reprioritisation. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is the first to be involved in purchasing power repair choices. The Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation is, of course, also involved. We're in this together. You're already asking me to tell you what it's gonna be. Frankly, that's something you know the answer is the same, regardless of the cabinet that's here. Of course we're gonna watch that! But I can't tell you what the solution will be if you want to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u171	But it's about this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u172	I understand that, too. That's why we say March 9th.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u173	The CPB estimates always come on 9 March. I understand the government wants to look at these inflation figures. The political question is, of course, whether people will receive money in their accounts this year, because they will not make it to the end of the month. The Spring note will be dealt with in the first week of July. That's a law. It will then be put to the vote and only then will the cabinet be able to spend its money. Mr Van Dijck is right: it often means that you will not notice anything until 2023. The people at home who can't make ends meet want to know if they can still expect this cabinet to give them a concession, because from the 25th of the month they only have peanut butter sandwiches, they sit with cold hands every day or they can't shower anymore. That's what people want to know. Is the cabinet still trying to compensate the people this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u174	I think Mr Nijboer has indeed understood. The ministers of SZW and for APP, the whole cabinet, myself: we are looking at what it looks like and what we could do. There's an intention, but I just don't want to make a firm promise right now, but an intention. And then you can take care of the choices we make. Of course, we are aware of the fact that a lot of people are having a very difficult time. It is the responsibility of the government to act and to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u175	The intention is therefore to meet people this year. I'd really like to think that's important. I don't think I can get that on the spring note. This is simply regulated by law, I believe, as we did in the last week before the recess, as was the case with the Navy's note in the last week before Christmas. So it wouldn't be possible until August/September. Money will not be spent until Parliament has voted for it. So then there will be a separate law compensation, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u176	They're all very good questions, but I'd like to check at what point something happens. But I am not going to anticipate the decision-making that we are going to take at this time, and how we are going to settle it, as soon as possible. I am really asking you, however difficult it is, to understand that we have to make these difficult choices with each other, what we are going to do about compensation, for whom, in what way, and on what buttons we can turn. Mr Van Dijck asked what we can do about purchasing power repair for this year. That's very difficult, but there are always possibilities. Last year, for example, we also looked at compensation and the tax reduction on the energy bill. I think I've said enough about how serious the situation is. Taking something seriously also means you're really looking at it. And then the follow-up is what solution we could possibly find.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u177	I can understand that. What we can do is to see how successful the action that has now been deployed to provide the 800,000 most vulnerable households with €200. I am very curious to see whether it actually ends up with the people whose energy bills are the most out of control and whether these people have been helped the most. Because with the 3.2 billion that went to everyone, we all had an unheimical feeling. That is what we thought was a shotgun shot that also ends up with the richer people, who may not need it. Can the Minister, if she informs us after 9 March, on the way to the Spring Note or the Spring Note, also provide insight into how well we managed to reach the people most in need with the €200? That could also be an answer to the question of helping those people with something more during the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u178	That's a fair question. The Minister for Poverty Policy is in the process of getting benefits through the municipalities as quickly as possible. The Minister of Finance supports this. But it also requires urgent legislation in this Chamber. That runs through another committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u179	Could the minister finish up so we can go to dinner?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u180	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u181	I knew it. We have already dealt with a great deal. A single spokesperson has already gone home. Some of the spokesmen are on six interruptions, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u182	I'll see what questions I've actually answered. Mr Azarkan asked why VAT could not be reduced from 21% to 19%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u183	Mr. Azarkan has gone home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u184	I'll answer the question anyway, because it was such a nice question. That's 5 billion a year if we do that. So a VAT reduction leads to a heavy burden increase elsewhere. This year it is not possible anyway, because the rates are fixed. It's something we can take, but it costs money. Mr Azarkan also asked whether tax incentives, standards and pricing have been considered to solve social problems. I think we dealt with that question at the beginning. Mr Alkaya asked whether the cabinet would be generously compensating students facing the debt system. I believe that a motion has been tabled on this matter in the First Chamber. I'm not sure it's accepted, but I think it is. I will come back to that in the second term. As Mr Alkaya knows, to the displeasure of students and also a number of parties in this Chamber, 1 billion has been reserved. I think it's important that we go back to the point that a basic grant is possible. There is also a study advance, a voucher, which has not yet been used by a number of students. It's a tricky one. I know that compensating for debts you've incurred doesn't feel right. I fully understand that, but I also know that Minister Dijkgraaf is now talking to student organisations to see what can be done in a different way as a concession towards students. But at the moment, the cabinet does not intend to raise the compensation. That is not foreseen for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u185	I can, of course, draw hope from that word "for the time being." Minister Dijkgraaf talks with the students about this, but that will be a difficult conversation if the amount is already fixed. Here is the Minister of Finance, and I want to know if that amount is really in marble. Or can that conversation also come out that compensation should be fairer? This isn't just a compensation. This is a compensation for one generation of students who have had the bad luck of being born at exactly the wrong time. The generation before them already got the basic grant and the generation after them will get it as well. So they have just had bad luck and they should simply be compensated fairly. Is the Minister of Finance prepared not to let the money be leading here, but to open the conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u186	I understand, of course, the wishes of the students. It always feels unfair when you're just part of the generation that's missing something. That is certainly because for many students debt weighs very heavy. They often have the idea that debt hinders them or that they have a less chance of getting a mortgage they need, especially in a heated housing market. At the moment there has been no discussion within the cabinet to make the 1 billion an amount of X. Again, it will have to be taken from somewhere. The choice was made to compensate 1 billion. That is not a good story, but that is the choice we have made, because money has to be invested elsewhere. I think we should also look at what the future generation is going to do. If you have children in the future, child care is almost free. In reality, that's a lot more money every month than what young people now have to pay. It is also true that, thanks to your studies and despite the loan, especially in this labour market, you are in principle pre-sorted for a better job. We have to look at the whole picture, but I really understand the inconvenience that a lot of young people feel. But it is also the duty of the Cabinet to look at everything in broad terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u187	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u188	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. When people hear empathy from the minister, of course that's good. That she understands the situation is, of course, also good. But in the end, this is about the money. She's the Minister of Finance. This is the debate on the Start note. The young people rightly ask for fair compensation, and that is about money. If the minister says "we have to look at this in the coalition and in the cabinet too," is one of the possibilities that the amount will be increased? Because that was my question: is it in marble chiseled? I am going to table a motion on this today, and I hope to be able to amend it on behalf of a number of parties. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this too, given that so much is being discussed in the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u189	I think we should discuss everything, especially when room motions are adopted. But that's a procedural answer. I do not want to give the suggestion that I am already saying to Mr Dijkgraaf: go and talk, because we can find many billions. It just isn't. I also think that the Minister for Education, Mr Dijkgraaf, is committed to seeing with students what other opportunities can be explored that are not within the financial framework. This is a debate on the Start note, for which we have put the frameworks together. But now to say: we let go of everything... We have thought about this and this has been one of the weighing points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u190	Clear. Can I suspend for dinner?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u191	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u192	Here's to it. At 8.30 p.m., the floor will be returned to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u193	We're starting the second term of the Chamber. I assume that everyone will have enough time to speak for a minute. Then we can end it before Ajax starts. I call Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u194	Thank you, Mr President. The PVV is very concerned about the purchasing power of the Dutch. The prices are rising. Inflation is skyhigh. Energy prices continue to rise and a house is priceless for many. We also see that interest rates are beginning to rise again and that raw materials and staff are scarce and difficult to obtain. And this minister isn't doing anything. This minister reasoned last week: I am looking at it; we are waiting for the bank transfers and we are probably looking into the Spring Paper what we can possibly fix in 2023. Mr. Chairman. That's not what people are waiting for. The PVV has therefore submitted today a temporary emergency law for affordable energy to reduce VAT on energy. For us, it is incomprehensible that the high rate of 21% applies to energy. That is why I would like to table one more motion to fix, among other things, purchasing power. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to spend the additional €60 billion for climate and nitrogen on affordable messages, petrol, energy, care, safety and purchasing power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. Cut back when it had to and invest now that it can. That was at the heart of my speech in the first term of this debate, which took place last week. We must use the financial space that exists to solve major social problems, to remove behind-the-clock maintenance of our infrastructure, to strengthen the position of middle-incomes and to make necessary investments in the security, defence and sustainability of our economy. That does not mean, however, that we can simply spend money and allow the public debt to rise indefinitely. You don't have to, and that's not going to happen. Mr. Chairman. That is why I have already said that I believe that we should lay down legally that the nitrogen and climate funds are temporary and therefore cease to exist. I also believe that, before we spend money from these funds, we need to make net cost-benefit analyses, just as we do for infrastructure projects within the Mobility Fund. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement on climate and nitrogen set up two new budgetary funds for investment up to 2035;]] [[Whereas it is important for the sustainability of public finances that these budgetary funds are of a temporary nature;]] [[calls on the Government to include a horizon for both funds in both institutional laws so that they are legally anchored that they are finite,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Heinen and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u196	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement on climate and nitrogen provides for two budgetary funds which do not commit investment at project level in advance;]] [[Whereas it is important that these funds are used efficiently and effectively;]] [[calls on the government in the decision-making process on expenditure from the Climate and Transition Fund and the nitrogen Fund to make objective assessment of efficiency and effectiveness, for example through social cost-benefit analyses, conditional and to anchor this in the rules of the game attached to these funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Heinen and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u197	Mr. Chairman. Finally, one question to the Minister for the second term. In an interrupting debate with Mr Van Haga, the Minister seemed to suggest that she sees her own house as a source of inequality. I don't think that's true, but I think it's good to come back to that for a moment. In my first term, I pointed to a study by the CBS from December. It pointed out how the housing market is developing at the moment and that capital inequality is being reduced. That is quite apart from the fact that one's own home can contribute to capital building.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u198	Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u199	Mr President, you cut me off, but I would still like to finish my sentence. The home also contributes to capital building, but the minister can return to that in her term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u200	Thank you. You are half your time from the first term, I add. So be it. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u201	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. I'll do my best to submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a generation of students who have not received a basic grant, while the generation for those who received it and the generation after those who will receive it;]] [[believes that it is unfair that a generation of students have built up extra high debts as a result;]] [[believes that EUR 1 billion is too little for fair compensation for this "bad luck generation";]] [[invites the Cabinet to develop a fair compensation scheme whereby each student and every former student is still entitled to the amount he or she would have received during the course of the study if the basic grant had not been abolished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Raan, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u202	Mr. Chairman. Motion number two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank expects inflation to remain high for a long time, which puts the purchasing power of almost all Dutch people under pressure;]] [[calls on the cabinet to take measures as soon as possible, in line with the wishes of the VVD leader, to present "a plus" or "a balanced and positive purchasing power picture for all, including for older people in the Netherlands,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u203	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance confirms that the quality of care must be paramount;]] [[noting that the CPB indicates that a reversal of expenditure on care for the elderly leads to reduced care or lower quality care;]] [[calls on the government not to take into account in the national budget the proceeds of the planned changes to the care of the elderly and the care of young people during this period of office and to continue to put quality first,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr. Chairman. In particular, I have called on the Minister not only to be a good treasury guard, but also to be a driver of good and important plans for investment and the system changes that this cabinet wants to achieve. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. One is my own and one is with Mrs Maatoug, who unfortunately cannot do her input because she is in another debate. The first motion concerns stable municipal finances, with the budgets of the municipalities no longer being cut during the year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in recent years municipalities experienced financial difficulties due to a late discount on the accres because the Empire still had lower expenditure than previously expected;]] [[noting that the Start note announced that the cabinet would consider whether it would be desirable to make the accres more stable in the coming period;]] [[whereas local authorities benefit from short-term clarity;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a proposal to the Spring Paper on how municipalities have multi-annual clarity about the real increase in the accres, e.g. by clicking on stocks in the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u205	That motion really has to make sure that as a municipality you know what you're up to over the next few years. Mr. Chairman. The second motion concerns wages. We are talking a lot about energy bill measures here, but I think we should also look at the labour market. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a wage paradox, where labour shortages do not yet lead to higher real wages;]] [[calls on the government to monitor wage developments closely and to appeal to social partners if wages do not rise sufficiently given the tightness of many sectors and rising inflation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u206	Mr. Chairman. It is precisely now that so many sectors are looking for staff that it is important that the Minister for Social Affairs improves the quality of the labour market, including the relationship between fixed and flex, but also that wages go up where they can. As a politician, we have often asked for wage moderation. The opposite also applies in many sectors here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u207	Thank you. Mr Nijboer from the PvdA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I found the debate somewhat unsatisfactory so far, because we are talking about the principles of budgetary policy. I understand very well that as a cabinet, you make decisions on the spring note on the basis of the latest figures. But when you say about those principles, "we keep the frameworks, so all the setbacks that accumulate on the expenditure side need to be covered on the expenditure side" and when you say "we're gonna fix purchasing power and we're gonna have all kinds of setbacks on the revenue side too." At least anyone can count that on their fingers. I had expected a little more direction from the cabinet where it would be taken in. That wasn't done today. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the high energy bill also reduces purchasing power;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to submit proposals to the Chamber as soon as possible with regard to purchasing power repair measures for low and middle incomes and to ensure that they reach them by the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u209	Then there's the second motion. I thought it was a good question from Mr Van Dijck about oil on the fire. That's always a risk. Yeah, put that in your pocket. It's not every day like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are macroeconomic concerns about expansionary fiscal policies in times of high inflation;]] [[Whereas increasing taxes on large assets and polluters may limit this effect;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to explicitly consider the impact of its macroeconomic decisions on the stabilisation objective of the budgetary rules and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u211	Very well, thank you. Then Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had three motions. I'm going to submit one because I've decided that I've been given a commitment on two, but I'll explain that. I had asked you to think about putting forward frameworks for this in advance if there are unforeseen expenditure so that we know how we want to deal with it in principle. I understand there will be an evaluation of the accountability system. That's what answers are gonna come up, so I'm just gonna hold the motion back. Should it be necessary, I will probably be able to present it in a later debate. Then I had one with regard to the integral overview. Why did I make it? Because I have already had a few debates on this with the previous Finance Minister. I have been somewhat disturbed by the fact that every time it is said that each department itself is responsible, while we note that we regularly had great financial surprises. I have been given a commitment to ensure full responsibility in the years to come. That's what we're gonna see, or I'm gonna have the motion in hand. Then my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that budgetary funds are being set up to solve major societal issues;]] [[Whereas pots of money alone do not solve problems and the money must be spent efficiently and effectively;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[not to draw money from the budget funds to be set up without sound spending proposals;]] [[submit these spending proposals to the Court for approval;]] [[clearly include in the plans whether they are implemented nationally or decentrally, and how their funding is secured;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u213	In other words, especially if it's for the local authorities: no plans without money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u214	Thank you. Mr Grinwis from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u215	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. I understand that it is a difficult time to talk about the macro-economic conditions in relation to the budget, because the process of the Spring paper is still about to start in the Cabinet. Then, of course, it is very difficult to make commitments here, so all the understanding for that. At the same time, I think it is very clear to all of us that something must be done. I brought you one motion. I am a big fan of the funds we have agreed on, also in view of the experience I have gained with the Mobility Fund and with the Delta Fund. At the same time, funds are not grain barns that you can create unbridled but grain from. That is why, together with Mr Heinen, I have tabled a few motions, also following the Segers/Herman motion, which were in line. I've got one left over now. It goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a threat to the speedy implementation of the coalition agreement;]] [[whereas under-utilisation is therefore not unimaginable, especially where intensifications are relatively significant, such as in Infrastructure and Water State, and Defence;]] [[Whereas working with budgetary funds allows for the possibility of overprogramming, shifting over annual boundaries, long-term and predictable programming, which the market sector can then anticipate and limit underexhaustation;]] [[calls on the Government to regularly analyse where there is a risk of (large) under-exhaustment in the state budget in the coming years, what is being done to reduce it, and to inform the Court of Auditors annually in the Annual Financial Report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u216	Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Heinen and Mrs Kaag were both right: indeed, ownership of the home contributes to reducing property inequality as prices rise. At the same time, it widens the gap between insider and outsider, for example the gap with tenants and with starters. That's true, too. I think that's what the Minister of Finance has been trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u217	Shouldn't we start a philosophical-economic discussion about this? Well, okay. Mr. Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u218	I won't. I just have a specific question. I understand what Mr Grinwis is saying, but this ignores the fact that house prices can also fall. I know the personal stories of people who have fallen into huge debt as a result of selling in a declining market. You can't really say that's contributed to power building. Surely Mr Grinwis agrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u219	Sure. You saw in the years around the credit crisis the wealth inequality increased as well. We have seen both developments over the last ten years. Only, the fact is that the gap between tenants and property owners, between insider and outsider........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u220	Mr Van Raan from the Group of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to endorse what Mr Grinwis said about the Christian Union. We also understand the fact that the Minister cannot promise anything here. At the same time it is about the Start note and then you want to give some in the recitals that are still being made. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several motions have been adopted which will make this cabinet a major leap in the application of the broad concept of prosperity;]] [[noting that the budgetary frameworks are currently leading in the budgetary negotiations;]] [[calls on the government to give broad prosperity a clear place in budget preparation, and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of this in the Millions Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Compliance Act (Article 3.1) requires that any policy proposal communicated to the Court should be explained in terms of policy objectives pursued, instruments to be used, expected effectiveness and efficiency and financial impact;]] [[noting that the broad concept of prosperity is not yet enshrined in Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act is to be extended to include a provision requiring that all policy proposals are accompanied by an explanation of their contribution to the broad prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Maatoug, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-159]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Maatoug and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u223	Thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen from the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. We thought it was a rather wondrous debate because the trees seem to be growing in the sky. We are concerned that, at some point, public debt will no longer be sustainable, and I believe that this concern is also shared by other groups. That's why there's two motions. I'll read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that the harmonised consumer price index of all countries in Europe increased to 5,3% in December 2021;]] [[whereas the ECB aims at an inflation rate of 2% in the medium term and it is therefore realistic that the ECB will shortly increase interest rates;]] [[noting that the CPB interest rate model already takes into account a public debt of 125% of gross domestic product in 2060 in the event of an ECB interest rate increase of 1.5%;]] [[calls on the Minister to pass on several scenarios on the sustainability of the Dutch sovereign debt, taking into account an interest rate of 0%, 1,5%, 3%, 4.5%, 6% and 9% respectively on the basis of the historical trend in European interest rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen, Stoffer and Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u225	The motion is also supported by Mr Stoffer and Mrs Den Haan. Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ECB currently has no limits on its monetary policy and does not seem to intend to stop printing exorbitant money;]] [[Whereas such policies may eventually lead to hyperinflation;]] [[notes that in the event of hyperinflation, it leaves open the possibility to step out of the euro in order to guarantee our monetary sovereignty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u226	Yes. We had some printing problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u227	Then Mr. Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u228	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I thank the Minister for the answers to the questions. I think that Mr Nijboer made it quite clear in his introduction: I too am somewhat disappointed at where we are at the end of this debate. It seems that we are moving forward a lot of problems that live in this country, whether we are talking about inflation, energy prices or box 3. But the burden the people in the country feel is very great. I would like to express this disappointment here. I hope that there will be real action before the Spring Paper comes and that at least direction will be given. We just need that in this country. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention one practical thing. I don't have any motions. When I heard the Minister's introduction, I thought there would be another answer to my plan for child schemes, but I do not think that was given in the first period. It was a bit abruptly over. As far as I am concerned, it may also be dealt with in writing, but I can see how things are going in the second period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u229	Clear. Thank you. Then there is Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 75 billion is earmarked for the various funds, namely Delta, Climate, Defence Equipment, National Growth and Nitrogen, but it is not yet clear what this money is spent on;]] [[Considering that the cabinet may intend to separate the AOW from the minimum wage once a year so that the AOW does not go along with the planned increase in the minimum wage;]] [[Whereas there is no majority for this proposal in the First Chamber;]] [[Whereas the purchasing power of pensioners has been lagging behind for years and will even decline as a result of huge inflation;]] [[calls on the government to take the amount needed to increase the AOW with the minimum wage out of the funds to enable pensioners, as is also the starting point of this cabinet, to move forward,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u231	Another motion that I don't quite know if it belongs here, but which I'm going to file anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ICT is an obstacle to public policy and policy implementation and that systems of agencies such as SVB, the Tax Administration, municipalities and UWV cannot communicate with each other, while these bodies are cooperating;]] [[Considering that many mistakes are made and that citizens are often the victims of these mistakes;]] [[Whereas the recovery of these errors not only costs a great deal of suffering but also costs a great deal of money;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the various self-contained ICT systems of public authorities, which do need data from each other, can communicate (AVG proof) with each other,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u232	I understand Mrs Den Haan's first motion. At the same time, it proposes to make a structural expenditure of 2.4 billion and to cover it from incidental resources. You can keep that up for a couple of years. You can decide not to isolate homes for low-income people or not to build energy infrastructures that we need for the future. But at some point, we're out of money. What then is the structural coverage of Mrs Den Haan's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u233	That is a very good question from Mr Grinwis. That's what we need to look at. What I do know is that at the moment it is not exactly clear how the money that goes to the funds should be spent. It has even been said that the money is probably not going to go up in the next government term. I'd be delighted if the pensioners get the money they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u234	Mr Van Dijck, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u235	I heard Mrs Den Haan say that this motion was not adopted in the First Chamber. But that was a motion from the PVV that was adopted yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u236	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yeah, that's right. You're right, that's what it said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u237	That actually makes your motion unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u238	In my opinion, a cabinet can dismiss motions. I hope not, because I was very pleased that the motion was adopted in the First Chamber. But if that is the case, I would very much like to see the purchasing power of pensioners maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u239	Thank you. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u240	Luckily, the microphones are sometimes off. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know what for, but okay. In any case, BVNL is very concerned about the financial management and the price that has been set. That's why the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that power inequality is not in principle wrong,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pension assets cover almost half of total assets;]] [[calls on the government to pay explicit attention to pension assets in the ongoing inter-departmental policy research on the distribution of assets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to agree with Eurobonds or other new forms of debt mutualisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-165]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-166]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u241	I'm almost done in time anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u242	Unbelievable, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u243	Half the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u244	Thanks to the Haga Group. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u245	Thank you for my 40 seconds, Chairman. What are we looking at? We had elections with election programs. A year later, there is a government agreement which in no way resembles the electoral programmes. That 60 billion through funds wasn't in it. It did not include savings that all four parties had, such as the 30% schemes. And now it turns out that the coalition agreement doesn't match the Start note. Because the VVD says "everyone has to get ahead right away" and the Nibud says "everyone is getting worse." So we're going back to college. Sorry. All problems are being pushed forward. Meanwhile, the middle class is dying. I therefore do not support the policy of the Start note. I don't need to make a motion for that. It is for the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls for reductions in energy taxes to be made on gas and not on electricity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u246	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to a joint debt issue for new European funds and projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u247	I will try to combine the second with Mr Van Haga's, which seems almost identical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u248	He used a nicer word, didn't he: guilt-mutualization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u249	Yeah, debt mutualization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u250	Yeah, I liked that. We see with interest how you're going to fold the two motions together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u251	That won't take us three minutes, Mr. Chairman. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u252	We can, of course, sign back and forth. Maybe we should have done that in advance. But we're putting them together. Then we'll make it a beautiful thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u253	That's gonna be great. You've got ten minutes for that, because then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u254	If the Minister says no, we know which one we're withdrawing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u255	That's gonna be quite a fight. We're gonna follow the outcome. I'll suspend until 9:10, then we'll listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u256	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u257	Thank you. Many thanks also to this Chamber for the comments, suggestions and other perspectives. I shall first answer a few of the questions that have been asked. And then I hope very efficiently, at the request of the President, to pass the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u258	File letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u259	The M.O. Epistle. Praise him! I shall begin with Mr Heinen's question. He asked if I could just clarify that a home of my own could be seen as a source of inequality. That might have been picked up wrong. He asked if I agreed with him that property ownership has reduced inequality. Mr Heinen is quite right. The CBS's article points out that, in the case of property inequality, its own housing played a positive role, i.e. that property inequality was reduced by housing ownership, among other things by the rise in house prices. The CBS uses the gini coefficient, a commonly used measure in power discussions, as Mr Heinen knows. In 2020, 60% of the Dutch had their own house. That's very different from my childhood. They saw their wealth rise purely because of rising house prices. If the situation continued this way, this could be a great equalizer for those who own their own home, looking at the power inequality according to that gini coefficient. What I was trying to point out in the discussion with Mr Van Haga is that, as far as I am concerned, the discussion on capital is broader and more complex. I think that Mr Heinen shares that, because the rise in prices has, of course, increased enormously in recent years, and this also leads to greater inequality between the different groups. As Mr Grinwis pointed out, there are those who have it and who do not have it, people with their own homes and people who rent it. And then there are certainly people who rent and would like to buy, but are not able to do so. The only argument I wanted to make is that we are simply taking a broader view of the discussion about capability inequality. I think we all recognize the nuances. They're just so important. This was one part of a broader discussion that we are going to have with each other. Mr Stoffer asked whether there could be a response to his proposal. As you know, the policy responsibility for child schemes lies with the Minister of SZW. I would suggest to Mr Stoffer that there is a written response to his proposal from this Minister. Mr Van Dijck asked how the climate fund relates to existing climate resources in the budget and to the nitrogen fund. That's a fair question. The fund will indeed stand alongside existing climate policies, such as the SDE++ scheme and other schemes. However, I would like to emphasise once again that the climate fund is occasional, while many policies in the regular budget are of course structural. The intention of the fund is that it is additional to actually realize the big push needed to enable the energy transition. The Minister for Climate and Energy has started working on its development. So it's still a conscious choice. There are people in this room who disagree. But it is a conscious choice of the cabinet to arrange it this way. Then I come to the additionality of the two funds. For example, if you look at climate and nitrogen through the lens of the agricultural sector, part of the challenge there is part of climate policy. There, care is important to ensure that we ensure both additionality and so-called synergy. In the second term, I would like to return to a question from Mr Omtzigt which he asked about the start note in the first term of the Chamber. He asked for an overview. I said that I would see whether we would not be able to share an overview of the setbacks sooner, because I understand that there is great concern about this and that the Chamber would like to be included in it early. Unfortunately, I have to confirm that, at this stage of budget preparation, we still have to start discussions with the trade ministers, which I mentioned earlier, to see what the picture is of the various departments and what their budgets are like. I am concerned that in an inventory of the setbacks that we may already know, not yet knowing which windfalls there are, we are giving an incomplete picture by wanting to inform too early. In the interests of care, which Mr Omtzigt also stands for, the moment when we take the Chamber into it turns out to be the Spring Note. That's June 1st at the latest. I'd like to take the team to see if we can bring that up, but I can't make a firm promise about that and certainly not give a date. It is an objective, because I understand that, in view of current developments, it is important for the Court to know this in good time. I'd like to continue with the motions. I'll do that according to the Field letter method. The motion in part No. 147: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u260	I believe that the Minister had also promised to answer the question about the framework for loans. She'd come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u261	The loans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u262	There's no ringing a bell with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u263	Well, it was about the funds. I thought between the lines by hearing that it is not done in one go, but that there is uncertainty. That was about the loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u264	That was about the state agent, indeed. It operates independently. I'll send a letter explaining that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u265	So that's coming our way in writing, towards the Registry and the committee. Mrs. Den Haan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u266	Before the Minister commences the motions, I would like, in consultation with Mr Van Dijck of the PVV, the motion in part No. Sixty-three, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u267	At the request of Mrs Den Haan, I propose her motion (35925, No. 163). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u268	That saves you, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u269	Sure. I'll see what the motion on part No. 163 was once again when I got there. I will continue, Mr. Chairman, with your permission. The motion in part No. 148: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 149: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 150: dissuade. I would like to point out that, as I said, Minister Dijkgraaf is working on the elaboration and speaking with students. So give him some time to come up with a proposal. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 151: dissuade. The motion in part No. 152: dissuade. The motion in part No. 153: Judgement Room. The motion in part No. 154: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 155... sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u270	Emotion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u271	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u272	Was that motion that bad? Mr. Nijboer, that's not a compliment! The Minister must cry from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u273	No, I'm afraid not. There was something in my eye. I still had a nice statement from Aristotle for Mrs Maatoug, but she's not here. I'll save it for another time. He said money is a means. You must have it, of course. Then the motion to part No. 155. In fact, it expresses about the theorem of a very long part of this conversation. Purchasing power has our attention. The final figures will follow at the CEP. We are really going to look very carefully at that, but I cannot anticipate decision-making. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 156: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u274	I understand that a goal has just been set! That's good. The only thing that my motion calls for in addition is that this year there will be compensation for people. I understood that the Minister was quite willing to do so, so I am surprised that the motion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u275	Like I said, it really has our attention. I think I have said this in many different terms. It requires a careful process, but it also says: to come up with proposals for measures for purchasing power repair. It's purely a betrayal based on the process. And when we are done with the passing-on and weighing of the windfalls, hopefully there will be a few slippages and the setbacks, then of course it is important that the cabinet guides the initial start, namely a positive and balanced purchasing power picture for the low and middle incomes, especially for the people who are vulnerable to this energy price crisis and for the households who are at risk of falling out of the boat. So I share the intention, but it's purely about the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u276	I do not understand what is different in the process, because this does not oppose the closure after the CEP figures or the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u277	No, but you're asking for proposals. I think it's very careful right now that we're just gonna take a look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u278	Then the motion to part No. 157.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u279	At the motion in part No. 157 I have one question for the author. In this case, we are not talking about'spending proposals'; they are simply proposals. That would indicate a different budgetary system. With that adjustment, judge Room. The motion in part No. 158: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 159: judgment Room... You have to have fun every once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u280	Bringing in a little tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u281	Yes! Then the motion to part No. 160. I advise against this motion. Mr Van Raan knows how, if you look at the Hammelburg motion and the Klever/Ploumen motion, we can frame broad prosperity in the budgetary cycle. You will receive another letter on this matter. We're gonna do this one step at a time. This motion goes much further. I understand the direction, but step by step. The motion in part No. 161 I give judgment Chamber. I'll pass it on to the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u282	It's Mr. Van Houwelingen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u283	The motion in part No. 162: Judgment Room... no, dissuade, apology. Sorry, I was still on the motion to part number. 161. The motion in part No. 162 has therefore been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 163 has now been apprehended, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u284	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u285	Then the motion to part No. 164. May I inform you, Mr. Chairman, that this really belongs to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u286	That sounds pretty obvious to me. Then I guess we'll have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u287	Yeah, I'm gonna have to dissuade him. From the Treasury, I have no judgment on it. It is better to table this motion in a debate with the State Secretary of BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u288	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u289	The motion in part No. 165 is a speech-expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u290	Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u291	I've been questioning the motion in part number. 164 to submit to this debate, but of course it saves a lot of money. I think the Minister knows the problem. I would appreciate it if the Minister would pass the motion to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u292	Here's to it. I'll be sure to. Then the motion to part No. 166. I'll pass on the suggestion, but it's an independent investigation. On that basis, I cannot say what should or should not be weighed with this ibo. On that basis, I should discourage the motion, but I will convey the suggestion. Then the motion to part No. 167. This is not the case in any debate or in any planned round of discussions. On that basis, I advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 168 is complex. It is difficult because of the climate targets for 2022. That can't be changed anymore. I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt that I have said many times that we are going to look closely at the effects of the current crisis on the purchasing power of the minima and the vulnerable. As the motion has now been made, I must advise against it. The motion in part No. 169 I also advise against. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u293	Very good. So much for this debate. No, there is another question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u294	It is also nice to talk about these things in substance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u295	Yeah, we still have hours, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u296	That's entrapment, Mr. Chairman. If you like, I can do an hour. What is the reason not to oppose joint debt issuances by European countries? That's the policy of not wanting eurobonds, isn't it? The Minister says it's not on the agenda right now, so it's not recommended. But she can also say: we do not want this? Is this what the government wants? Is it prepared to join new Eurobonds or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u297	It's really not the issue. It's very easy to file this motion now. It's very generic. When we look at NextGenerationEU, there are always weighing moments. I do not think it is right to put forward a rather generic motion in a debate on the Start note without there being anything to it or on the agenda. That is why I reject the motion, not on the basis of what may happen in the future, but simply because it is not political at all now and I do not think there is any chance that it will happen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u298	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u299	That's a chance I've got in my head. I think it's going to happen, but we're gonna see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u300	And that's what we're gonna talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u301	That's what we're gonna talk about. And may I wish the Minister much strength when she discusses that compensation of €200 in the cabinet. I think that's gonna happen next Friday. Then we'll have to see if it's enough. For many households that are just above the minimum, there will be no compensation through the municipalities. I hope that the Cabinet will look not only at what is happening in the future on Friday, but also at the acute needs of low-income or middle-income families and a drafty home, so that they understand that they are being understood on Friday afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u302	I think the cabinet, like its predecessors, is constantly committed to working for that. As I said, I know that the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions is actively working through the municipalities to develop the €200 allocated for this year on top of the 3.2 billion energy compensation as quickly as possible. I take note of Mr Omtzig's remark, of course, that it does not seem to reach everyone who needs it. That, of course, needs to be looked at carefully and followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u303	Very good. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Minister for her presence, both today and two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-6.u304	We are going to vote on the motions tabled on 8 March. That's the Tuesday after recess. I shall close the sitting on 23 February 2022.
