ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today, as many as five constitutional proposals are being discussed. These legislative proposals have all been adopted by the Second and First Chambers, but are now being dealt with in a so-called second reading. In doing so, both chambers can only adopt these laws with a two-thirds majority. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We will deal with these constitutional proposals separately, also with a view to an orderly legal history. In principle, until 15.30 hours are reserved for the treatment of these laws. We'll suspend this meeting at a logical time for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u2	We are now starting with the legislative proposal to amend the Constitution to include a general provision (35786). I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're going to discuss a lot of constitutional changes today. The AD has already said that it was "the great transformation of the Constitution," but this has of course been going on for a long time. Because the bill we are discussing has already been published on 9 March 2018. That means that it was discussed in this Chamber in those two or three years before and also in the Upper Chamber. There have often been motions adopted in the First or Second Chamber that have called for those constitutional changes. That goes for the same thing here. In this case, it was an appeal from the First Chamber, which asked for a new general provision to be included in the Constitution. At first reading, my predecessor, Mr Van Raak, was ambivalent about that. In fact, the Constitution has all the chapters that come in the kind of preamble. Was it necessary? There were also a lot of ideas about what that preamble should look like, that general provision. In the end, there was one expression, and that is what the SP Group said: that is what we are voting for. That was symbolic, but of course we have moved on. We've been four years, and something's happened in those last four years. We have seen the Van Dam Committee, which said that the rule of law had been seriously damaged. We have seen a self-evaluation of judges who have looked at whether they looked at people unbiased. We know that within the government there are risk profiles that stigmatize and discriminate against people. Yesterday, the Secretary of State said that what happened was morally reprehensible. At this second reading, therefore, we are at the point where we find this added value and less symbolic. We must all remember that discrimination must not be allowed and that we must be based on human rights. In fact, we should put that in the front of that general provision. We are more enthusiastic about this proposal at second reading than at first reading. At first reading, we were in favour of it and we are in favour of it. We wish the Minister every success in maintaining it. We're about to have another constitutional change. I will certainly come back to this, but what we are doing today must not be hollow. It must have a material effect on all the inhabitants of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a beautiful day and I feel privileged. It's not just Wednesday law day; it's a real, real constitutional day. No less than five second readings of constitutional reforms are on the agenda. Since 1995, not so many constitutional changes have been dealt with in one day. As Mr Leijten said, there has not been such a major change in the role since 1983. The Constitution is the most important law of our country, the legal foundation under our democratic rule of law, the basic document that determines the rules of our democratic society. In order to fulfil this role, the Constitution needs to be brought to the right time and must be equipped for the challenges of today, because our Constitution is outdated. The atmosphere that breathes from it is still very much that of the Netherlands from the nineteenth century, the time of Thorbecke, with fundamental rights that are not tailored to the digital developments and a King who seems to have a very important role, with a separate chapter right behind the chapter on fundamental rights. Moreover, there are all kinds of technical, rather incomprehensible terms that you only understand when you have a legal study on them. So society has changed a lot, and we want to see that, no, we need to see that in the Constitution. In short, maintenance is needed. Fortunately, we are on the right track. In January we discussed the electoral colleges for Dutch people abroad and a few weeks ago the Chamber agreed to the extension of Article 1 of the Constitution. Of course, my group also has some questions today about the various proposals, but at the core we are enthusiastic about all five amendments. Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the first specific amendment: the addition of a general provision. Indeed, ten years ago, the motion of D66 Senator Hans Engels was adopted asking the cabinet to include a general provision in the Constitution that would express the fact that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. For the Constitution must, as it is so beautifully called, contain the essentials of our state system: the most important things, the essential points. As far as I am concerned, this explicit mention is one of them. It is no secret that at first reading my group was in favour of a slightly different wording, namely one that would stay closer to the wording suggested by the Constitutional Commission and better explain what we mean by the democratic rule of law. But we all know that this is a crossing station in this lecture. The right of amendment does not apply here. However, I do have a few questions on this proposal. If the aim is to strengthen the guarantee nature of the Constitution, are there not, or even more, other changes needed? I am thinking, for example, of abolishing the prohibition of scrutiny, i.e. ensuring that judges can actually check on the Constitution, or at least on parts of it. This will provide additional legal protection, additional power distribution and can also bring the Constitution more to life. The Chamber has called for this on several occasions. We're waiting for proposals from the cabinet. My question to the Minister is what her specific plan is for this. And what further plans does the Minister have to ensure that the Constitution and the values it symbolises and guarantees are firmly anchored in the social debate and in the consciousness of people? But I am also thinking of fundamental rights. With the changes that we are discussing today, later this morning, we are discussing the addition of the right to a fair trial and the modernisation of the communication secret, but we are not there yet. For example, the article on freedom of expression also deserves to be modernised. The Constitution speaks about the freedom of printing press, which can be limited "without prejudice to everyone's responsibility under the law." Who else gets that? And is that still from this time of year? Is this restriction system still adequate? The same state committees that are the inspiration for some of the other proposals have also said: look at this, get on with it. The question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to do so. With the supplementing affair in mind, it might also be worth considering putting the right to good governance in the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the requirement of legality, part of the amendment that we tabled at first reading: the government has no powers without the law giving it. We have seen recently that things can go wrong regularly: the appointment of the previous Secretary of State for Justice and Security to municipalities to receive refugees, an online area ban by the mayor in Utrecht, trial agreements between OM and suspect without any clear legal authority. In other words, respect for the legality requirement can still gain strength. I would like to hear the Minister's views on these proposals. In other countries we see how fragile democracy can be. I therefore believe that the answer of a liberal democracy such as the Netherlands to this international trend of democratic decline should be to renew and deepen our own democracy. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. In the run-up to the 2021 Lower House elections, the Dutch order of lawyers, or a committee at their request, went through all election programmes and reviewed them for the state of law. That committee noted a trend of state-law thinking. That's a good thing, I say. It indicates that the time is right for revisions, not just those we are talking about today, but others as well. In this context, I am also looking forward to the debate in the Senate on the proposals that have been there for some time now, such as the proposal to deal with the second reading of constitutional changes in a united assembly, to do even more justice to the particular nature of what we are doing here today, and the proposal to change the term of office of the First Chamber and the electoral procedure. I ask this Minister: what is the situation with regard to the return right of the First Chamber? That too should be incorporated into the Constitution. We voted in favour of this as a Chamber on the occasion of the Remkes State Commission and the cabinet response. When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u6	There's been an interruption by Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u7	As the honourable Member had such a fine reflection, including on the wider adjustments and the responsibility we have to bring the Constitution to this time, I was very curious to see if the honourable Member could comment on new initiatives that we are going to take. I am thinking specifically of adjusting the voting age to 16 years. I wonder how D66 sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u8	Well, this member of the D66 Group can count too, and has not seen the 76, let alone the 100, in the debates that we had just had. At that time, I asked the Minister to at least see if there were opportunities for the only election that was not constitutionally regulated, namely that for the European Parliament. Then we only need 76 seats. Let us start there, and then I hope that one day it will have the constitutional maturity, as it is so beautifully called, in order to be able to anchor it in the Constitution as well. But before that, we need to find a few more supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u9	Another interruption by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u10	It is very nice to hear that Mr Sneller is so attached to the Constitution and fundamental rights, but we have seen in the last two years that fundamental rights from this house have been reduced very easily. Just think of old people in a nursing home who were no longer allowed to see their children and grandchildren. People had to swing from an elevator tray to their demented mother because they weren't allowed in. People who didn't have a green check mark weren't allowed to go to the theater or to the café. Those are really fundamental rights that matter. In fact, I wonder what Mr Sneller is looking at now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u11	I don't think that's ever been lightly decided. At the same time, I have also asked whether the system of restrictions as we now have is actually adequate for our fundamental rights, especially in comparison with those in the European Convention on Human Rights. I didn't ask that question for nothing. I think you could put that even more strongly in our Constitution. In addition, of course, I have also advocated the constitutional review, so that not only we in the Lower House and in the Upper House decide whether or not a law is contrary to the Constitution, but can also be looked at by a judge, so that there will be additional legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u12	Does Mr Sneller agree with me on the following? The Constitution contains clauses on which you may make exceptions, but you do not have to do everything you can. Do you agree that we may have to look at this again in the future? What is a situation in which Mr Sneller says: it should be allowed to do so? And when isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u13	I have already cited the example of freedom of speech. That's what it says, except for everyone's responsibility for the law. And, of course, there are restrictions on freedom of expression, such as in the case of defamation or calls for violence, which you can say is a legitimate restriction. Furthermore, it is very difficult to say that in a general sense. I believe that the debates here have always been held when a law has been passed that has affected fundamental rights. It is important that it should also be part of the review by the Minister and by the Council of State. That is one of the other changes we are discussing today. It is a good thing that this is happening even more emphatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal to introduce the Constitution with a general provision poses a dilemma for the CDA Group. That dilemma does not lie in the content of that general provision. The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, for who can disagree with it? The dilemma lies in this: what does a general provision add? I've had a tough lesson from a policy officer. Fundamental rights are enshrined in numerous constitutional articles. Equal treatment and non-discrimination are set out in Article 1. Freedom of religion and belief is set out in Article 6. Freedom of printing press is set out in Article 7. Freedom of association is set out in Article 8. Freedom of assembly and demonstration is set out in Article 9. Respect for privacy is set out in Article 10. The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights by expressing those fundamental rights. The Constitution also guarantees the democratic rule of law. The right to vote is enshrined in Article 4 and the right to a fair trial in Article 17. We come to talk about this today at a later date. The Constitution guarantees the democratic rule of law by expressing the various aspects of democracy and the rule of law. The CDA Group has argued earlier, at first reading, that it should adhere to a sober constitution that only contains legally binding rules. That was also the reason for the CDA Group in the Lower House and the Upper House to vote against the inclusion of a general provision in the Constitution at first reading. What adds a general provision was the question. In the rule of law, the government is the servant of the general interest. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen examples where the government was seriously failing. In the case of the tax administration's surcharge affair and in the context of the handling of the earthquake damage in Groningen, the government lost a lot of ground in the reliable and serviceable role it should play. This has shocked and damaged citizens' confidence. In the society we have in mind, we restore balance. It is not the government or the market that is at the forefront, but society. Government and market are serving the citizen, rather than the other way around. This calls for an effective and just government with a human face. That requires a learning government that is open and honest when things go wrong. New measures are needed to restore the damaged trust. That is why our electoral programme has been included: we state in the Constitution that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The CDA Group does not regard the proposed general provision as a change of direction in the Constitution. The Constitution is written to guarantee fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. However, the CDA Group sees the general provision as a task for the government to constantly monitor fundamental rights and strengthen the resilience of the democratic rule of law. In summary, the CDA Group sees the addition of this provision as a meaningful addition to the Constitution and as a small but valuable step. The general provision spells out the values on which the Constitution is based. The general provision thus establishes a framework for the government and for our work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Strolenberg of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you. It's nice to have some sort of marathon of constitutional changes today. Yesterday, 29 March, the Constitution also had its birthday. I refer to the draft Constitution of 1814 drawn up under the direction of Gijsbert Karel van Hogendorp. That was approved on that day. It's a memorable moment to speak. Today we are discussing the second reading of the constitutional changes. It concerns the amendment of the Constitution with regard to the inclusion of the general provision. That is also a time to mark, because our Constitution has never had such a general provision so far. The provision is made by adopting the Koopmans amendment as follows: The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. I would therefore like to use this second reading to put a few more questions to the Minister in the first term. How does the Minister view this general provision in the light of the debate on judicial review? What is the relationship between this review and the provision now before us? What is the nature of this provision? I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you. I call Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr. Chairman. We woke up this morning in a democratic rule of law. That democratic rule of law is there because we have agreed to it in the past. It is in our Constitution, but that is not the end of it. I therefore very much agree with what Mr Sneller said. It requires work from all of us to keep that, in not good Dutch, up-to-date. But it is also very hard work to make the rights that we have agreed with each other and which are special in the course of human history mean something and make something lasting mean something. I think that in recent years and today, beyond our borders and in the Netherlands, we are being pushed with our noses: it is very hard work to make the democratic rule of law mean something every day. Mr. Chairman. This is my first debate with this Minister of the Interior. I'm replacing my colleague today. When I read the first reading of this amendment, I noticed that this Minister was speaking on behalf of her group as a Member of Parliament. I also noticed that she was quite critical at the time. So I am very curious about the Minister's assessment today. Just over ten years ago, the First Chamber adopted the motion of D66 Senator English, co-presented by GroenLinks Senator Margreet de Boer, which aims to supplement the Constitution with a general provision stating that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. At the time this was partly the result of the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The government has tabled a constitutional amendment to this effect. After both chambers have agreed to the first reading, the second reading is taking place, and today we are discussing it, as mentioned by colleagues. That second reading is not for nothing. When amending the Constitution, it is important that we, as States-General, consider whether we really think a previously adopted amendment is a sensible idea. In this second reading we do so. It is probably not surprising, but the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance still thinks it wise to supplement our Constitution, the basic constitutional document of the Netherlands, with a provision on the basis on which our system rests, namely the democratic rule of law. Finally, Mr President. I have a specific question for the government, in particular this new Minister for the Interior. The Constitution is the basic document for the Netherlands. However, we also have a basic document for the whole of the Kingdom, namely the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It lays down the constitutional principles of our Kingdom and codifies the relations between the four countries forming the Kingdom. How would the Minister view it if we included a similar general provision in the Statute, which states that the Kingdom as a whole is also a democratic rule of law? I look forward to the Minister's reflection on this idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands. I also welcome the people in the gallery. This still feels a bit surreal to me, because a year after we joined the House of Representatives, we can talk about fundamental changes to our Constitution. The Constitution is the most important document and foundation of our nation. We are going to rewrite the wise words of our founders and thus enter the shadow of Thorbecke. It is therefore very important that we do this carefully. I would like to give some context to those who are trying to follow this debate. According to our procedure, a constitutional change goes through two rounds. At first reading, a proposal goes through the two Chambers of Parliament. After the elections, the so-called second reading takes place, in which a proposal is finally approved or rejected. The second reading is now taking place. I'm proud to be a part of that. Mr. Chairman. The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. That is the general provision that we would like to add to the Constitution. Since 1581 our small country on the North Sea has functioned as a stronghold of freedom. Sometimes the flame flickers, but in general it grows bigger and bigger. It seems therefore a good time for the BBB Group to include in our national document our Constitution in service of democracy and the rule of law. However, promise makes guilt. If we include this provision in the Constitution, things such as the supplementing affair can never happen again, the expropriation of farmers can no longer take place on the basis of weak justification and the erosion of the supervisory role of the Chamber in a crisis such as that which has been avoided in the past two years in the future. Martin Luther King spoke the timeless words: I have a dream that one day this people will rise up and do justice to the true meaning of his creed. If we add this credo to our Constitution, we will also have to comply with it. We must pass on the flame of freedom to our children. That can only be done if we have the courage to remind ourselves every day of the promises that Thorbecke gave us and now we gave this country. Many provisions in the Constitution have an exception clause, which says that a fundamental right can be restricted by law. But limiting a right doesn't mean limiting it. Not everything you can do, you have to do. These exceptions are in the Constitution for the most extraordinary cases, but the aim must always be to maintain the maximum of the freedoms laid down in the Constitution. If we do not realise this, the addition of the democratic rule of law to the Constitution will be a dead end. It's more like a potting constitution. Unfortunately, in the corona era, we saw that fundamental rights were easily affected. The content of the Constitution also contradicts this added general provision. The Constitution may not be useful to the democratic rule of law if the same Constitution prohibits judicial review of the provisions of that Constitution in Article 120. Let the citizen fully benefit from the democratic rule of law that we are going to anchor in the Constitution and allow a constitutional court to review. This review revives the Constitution in our society. Citizens from Delfzijl to Cadzand can suddenly invoke their fundamental rights. Judges even indicated that the prohibition of review made it difficult to correct unjust laws during the supplementing affair. Can the Minister indicate how far the government's plans for constitutional review have progressed? When can we expect specific proposals on this? Mr. Chairman. Today, we anchor the values of the democratic rule of law in our Constitution. Across the Malieveld is a beautiful building, The Red Elephant. They are now offices, but as far as we are concerned, it already has the appearance of a constitutional court. Let us work together in this Chamber to make it possible for our citizens to see their fundamental fundamental rights protected there. Only then will we live up to our creed. Let the Constitutional Court of the Red Elephant guard our freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u22	Thank you. I call Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The Soviet Union also had a beautiful constitution. It consisted of twenty bound parts. There was no Soviet citizen who didn't have him at home. It was a pearl in every library and on every shelf. That great constitution really guaranteed every freedom. Every nation was entitled to self-determination. Every citizen enjoyed maximum freedom. If you read the constitution of the Soviet Union back, I don't do it every day. You'd almost get homesick about that country and wonder why the hell it's been lifted. The reality is that I don't have to tell you that, Mr. Chairman, of course, was a completely different one. We are talking today, at least in this debate, in this section, about the general provision whereby we are going to be very persuasive in proclaiming that we are a democratic rule of law. I think it's a bit of self-congratulation. I'm not excited about it. The Constitution is incredibly important. It is the basic document of the Dutch rule of law. It's not a blueprint for a better society. That thought exists. People see it as a kind of wish list of fun things that need to be realized. We already have something very strange in our Constitution, namely that the government must also provide useful leisure activities. Of course, it is not the Constitution's job to mention such things. The Constitution must protect citizens from the government. That's actually the most important thing. Mrs Van der Plas just dated the Netherlands in 1581. Our first Constitution dates, of course, from 1579, the Union of Utrecht. That's our real first Constitution. I would anyway date the Netherlands in 1548, when we managed to make ourselves independent in the transaction of Augsburg within the Habsburg Empire. That is the moment of birth of the Netherlands, I think. It's all very nice that we're going to write now that we're a democratic constitutional state. Then we look in the mirror and we are very satisfied. Something seems to have been solved, but I wouldn't know what. But, of course, reality is very different. The minister's predecessor, Mrs Ollongren, simply said openly when she talked within the canal belt for all kinds of parties and friends in Amsterdam, all D66's: if the PVV wins the elections, the election results must not be recognised and a Republic of Amsterdam must be transferred. Then it's nice that we put everything in a general provision, but reality is different. That's why I started the Soviet Union. I will not compare the Netherlands with the Soviet Union, because that is not the point, but the point is that there is a difference between theory and practice. If the same Mrs Ollongren is told in a Wob procedure by an official 'I will make a few rules on the restriction of fundamental rights', then our fundamental rights will simply be restricted. That's just traffic with civil servants. What are these fundamental rights worth? What are we supposed to do with such a general provision? We are seeing a containment, a death of our democracy before our eyes. We see the aversion of democracy within the institutions of the Netherlands, which emerges in many ways. I refer, for example, to the hatred against the referendum, even the hatred against the fucking people, against the Netherlands. It's all there is to it. We can see it from the professional ban on PVVs. People are always very shocked by "o, discrimination, discrimination," but there is only one group in the Netherlands that you can discriminate to your heart's content and these are PVV's. We may pay taxes, but we must not have any influence on democracy. We can see it in the Wilders trials where the separation of powers has been trampled upon, in which ordinary Justice Ministers consulted with the Public Prosecutor on how to hit the leader of the largest opposition party in the Netherlands. We can see the enormous role of subsidies within the rule of law. The National Postal Code Lottery, to name but one, finances Milieudefensie en Natuur en Milieu. This translates into the Climate Act, actions against Shell, and Urgenda. It is at odds with our democracy. Our democracy does not work because all the institutions in the Netherlands are in the hands of the left. I mean the media, the universities, the high civil service, the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also the art sector, the museum sector and the trade unions. That is all in the hands of the left and that is why our democracy is not working. Then we can scream loudly and look proudly in the mirror of 'gosh, we are going to add a general provision to the Constitution and look at us as a democratic rule of law', but unfortunately the reality is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u24	There is another interruption by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u25	I thought Mrs Van der Plas put it nicely. She didn't say "you should see us as a democratic rule of law," but "you should see us as a democratic rule of law." We want to be that, and I hear from Mr Bosma that he believes that the Constitution should protect and guarantee fundamental rights and that the Constitution should also guarantee the democratic rule of law. If he sees this general provision, whereby the PVV did vote for the English motion to ask the cabinet to come up with such a proposal, in this way, can he not see the value of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u26	No, look, a constitution is supposed to protect citizens from the government. Look at the American constitution that Mr Sneller has quoted here more often, the Jeffersonian democracy that guarantees the separation of powers. The Constitution is the blueprint for the democratic rule of law. If you're going to say "want to be," then the Constitution is going to be something completely different; then it's going to be a kind of wish list. Then it's going to be something like: I want to have a new bike with sintering class. That's not what a constitution should be. A constitution is: these are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u27	These are the facts or these are the rights that we want to take care of, otherwise we will actually say about all subjective rights that ask the Cabinet to do something, social fundamental rights: throw them all out. Is that the PVV's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u28	That's not my party's point of view. Mr Sneller uses the term "want to be," but that term is far too weak. You have to be something and you have to be in practice. Then you have to prove that in practice and then you shouldn't come up with such a cry that is so contrary to the practice. I would like to invite D66 to put the desire for the democratic rule of law that we share into practice much more and now to distance ourselves from the strange words of Mrs Ollongren, a party colleague of Mr Sneller, who simply openly says: if the PVV comes to power, then we do not recognise the result of the election. Surely Mr Sneller will agree with me that this is contrary to the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u29	As far as fundamental social rights are concerned, it is always a question of checking reality against the ideal of being there and of seeing whether more needs to be done. That is what this general provision can mean, regardless of the fact that it places the Constitution and the chapters on fundamental rights in a certain context, which is also just of value.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u30	But what is the value of such a vague cry? What is the value of such a general provision? What makes the world better? What is the point of that? How is the Netherlands becoming more democratic by adding such a general provision? What do we get, what we haven't? Are the elections going to be better? Are people getting more influence on what we're all doing here? Will policy become more transparent? That's not the consequence at all, is it? There's no concrete consequence, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u31	I do not think that Mr Bosma and I are going to meet today, but at least it is not getting any closer by rejecting this general provision. I firmly believe that, by adopting this general provision, the ideals that Mr Bosma and I share are not many, but we do share some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u32	So be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u33	As I said, we also had a bit of a feeling of: isn't it too much a symbol? In the end, we have chosen that symbols can also add something. However, in the context of equal treatment, we have seen blacklist discrimination in the case of the supplement scandal, the drama. What stands out when it comes to these fundamental rights and the protection of the Constitution? That the PVV votes against saying that ethnic profiling cannot be done, while the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the State Secretary now also say that it is morally reprehensible. The IRS even got a fine for it. Fundamental rights are being violated on all sides, but when we talk about them, the PVV says: no, keep profiling ethnically. I think that's a little bit like double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u34	No. I do not know which motion or which proposal Mrs Leijten refers to, but Mrs Helder, my esteemed colleague and the police spokesperson of the PVV, has always argued that there is no ethnic profile in police action at all. Of course, we do see ethnic profiling, for example in the municipality of Amsterdam, where the SP rules. There is a policy that discriminates against white people. The SP discriminates against people. The SP ensures that 30% of the higher positions in the municipality of Amsterdam are no longer accessible to white people. So the SP discriminates against white people. My party's always against that. In Amsterdam, the SP also contributes to the policy of the Amsterdam Art Council, of which Felix Rottenberg was chairman, that art institutions should take a zero measurement to map the number of whites and work on rejecting whites. That's all SP policy. That's ethnic profiling. My party is one hundred percent against that, but the SP people make this discriminatory policy into a policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u35	Apart from the fact that this is not true because we have taken a different position in the city council than the city council, I find it so painful to measure it with two measures. On the one hand, Mr Bosma says: you can write everything down in the Constitution, but it's how we apply it. Well, it's now come to light that the IRS has discriminated. That's a violation of constitutional article number one. A self-evaluation of judges of the Council of State reveals that people's fundamental rights have been violated, for example in the supplement scandal. Motions have been tabled on this, and the PVV will vote against it. "We are not against discrimination," they say. So with the accusation that Mr Bosma is laying here, he smacks himself in the face. The PVV is not a guardian of fundamental rights and certainly not of the equal value of people. They make a permanent distinction. They can do that, because you can say anything in this room. But others blame them for making a symbol of the Constitution when we have exposed here in recent years precisely the violation of fundamental rights, I really think it is a double measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u36	No, it's not what Mrs. Leijten says. The SP simply rules in Amsterdam. The SP simply conducts discriminatory policies in Amsterdam. It was Alderman Ivens who just signed up for it. If you are white in Amsterdam and you want such a higher position, you cannot get it, because the SP carries out discriminatory and racist policies. The SP is proud of that. The SP always defends that. The city council of the SP supports that. It's just SP policy to discriminate against people. And if there is to be a fight against discrimination, then my party is at the front. My party is the most anti-racist party in the Netherlands. We are fighting against the racism of the municipality of Amsterdam and the Amsterdam Art Council. In the municipality of Utrecht, all kinds of racist measures are also introduced by GroenLinks, the ChristenUnion and D66. That's what we're fighting. Martin Luther King was just quoted. I was named after him. I am fighting against the racism that the SP seems to want to introduce anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u37	It is a pity that Mr Bosma never engages in debate and never responds. He can only hand out, while Mr Bosma's party has really not put a finger on the discrimination scandal that is the supplemental scandal and even says: ethnic profiling is allowed to continue, even if it is discrimination. I'm sorry. With regard to the measures taken by the Amsterdam City Council, we, as representatives of the people, have taken a different position on the Council. Mr Bosma does not want to see that difference. He certainly doesn't want to hear that everything he blames everyone here is at the heart of the PVV's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u38	And the core of SP policy is discrimination. It is the city council of Amsterdam, for which the SP has provided aldermen, which will not take long, because there have been elections that simply carry out discriminatory, racist policies. At 30% of the higher positions of the municipality of Amsterdam, white people are no longer allowed to apply. You'll only have given money to the SP or voted for the SP and you'll just get racist, discriminatory policies in return. That's just reality. Let's fight that racism. Let's fight this discrimination. In addition, the PVV is always at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u39	I call Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the floor. Whoever you are, wherever you come from and whatever you believe, we ask everyone to commit themselves from their own faith and testimony to the core of our shared life in the Netherlands, the basic values of the democratic rule of law and the institutions that guard and protect the rule of law. The Christian Union wants our Constitution to become an important symbol of this. He already is, but he can get even more vivid as far as we're concerned. We see the Constitution as more than a collection of constitutional articles. He stands for something bigger for my group, for the Christian Union. It reflects the values on which our society and the democratic rule of law are built. These are values such as human dignity, equality, freedom, responsibility, charity and space for difference. When this second reading was discussed, I went back to the first reading of this law. There, too, I met the current minister, then as a spokesperson. This legislative proposal originates from the recommendation of the State Constitutional Commission of 2010. At first nothing or little was done about it, but at the request of the First Chamber it resulted in a legislative proposal and the addition of a general provision. This will strengthen the normative and declaratory nature of our Constitution. My group has long wished to do so, because we see that our Dutch Constitution is very sober in an international perspective. The Constitution has a legal and symbolic function. The latter could be better expressed. With a general provision you make a start with that. Something of those values I just spoke of, of that robust foundation, is now reflected in the general provision contained in this bill. As a group, we welcome this. Would it have been okay if it had been tighter? Yes, as far as we're concerned, it would have been better. The text now reads: "The Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. At the time, however, the State Commission recommended that the general provision be worded much more broadly: "The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The government respects and guarantees human dignity, fundamental rights and fundamental principles of law. Public authority shall be exercised only under the Constitution or the law." I am curious to see the Minister's views on this. How does she look at that, at this time and at this time? It is precisely human dignity that the Constitution Committee referred to all human rights as the basis. All these classical and social fundamental rights, which are enshrined in the Constitution, are the result of this. I'm also curious to see how the Minister looks at that. Shouldn't we be setting it up a little bit wider? Would that not make the general provision much richer and more in line with the opinion given by the State Committee at the time? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A second opinion of the Constitution Committee, which I would like to put forward, on this very day when we are discussing a great many constitutional changes, looks forward to making some fundamental international fundamental rights a recognizable part of our own Constitution and expressing them in it. We are doing this today, for example, with the right to a fair trial, but there are more fundamental rights that the committee is naming, such as the right to respect for family life, the ban on torture and inhuman treatment and the right to life. The inclusion of these fundamental rights in the Constitution can emphasise its importance. I ask the Minister whether she is open to doing anything about it. Mr. Chairman. At first, I said that we could make our Constitution more lively. During a visit I once made to the Bundestag in Berlin, as a visitor I received a very small pocketbook containing the text of the Grundgesetz in Germany. We know how the constitution lives there in people's hearts and how important it is found. It's good that you have such a little book, that you have it in your possession, that it's handed out to children and other people who visit the Bundestag. You take it home and you can take it up again. I think this is a good example, which we could follow in the Netherlands: when you visit our Parliament, you will be given a copy of the Constitution, in a handy booklet. I suddenly see the Minister putting forward a booklet. So there's such a book. Then I ask the Minister whether that booklet can be distributed, very proactively, so that people can take it with them when they visit our Parliament. I think it is a good example of how we can bring the Constitution into people's hearts and homes. At the moment when they feel affected by their fundamental rights, they can open the booklet and see what they can stand up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you. I call Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not often have I seen a proposal for a constitutional change as misleading as the proposal we are discussing here today, namely the proposal to add a new provision to the Constitution, even before Article 1. A so-called general provision, which reads: The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. This raises many questions, for example: what fundamental rights and what democratic rule of law? Does the government mean the same fundamental rights and democratic rule of law that have been violated by the government in recent years? Why is it that, according to the government, it is suddenly necessary to include a general provision in the Constitution which states that the Constitution would guarantee fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law? Is there any doubt about that in the government? The explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal shows that, while the government seems to have every confidence in our Constitution, in fundamental rights and in the democratic rule of law, it would be no harm to make these core principles of our constitutional system explicit. So it looks like a strong piece of symbolic legislation, clearly intended to show that the government attaches the greatest possible value to fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. However, the meaning is totally negligible, because when things come to an end and when the need arises, our Constitution does not guarantee anything at all. No fundamental rights at all, and certainly not the democratic rule of law. Moreover, it is not up to the Constitution to guarantee these core principles. The Constitution is a piece of paper. Ensuring fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law is primarily up to the government and parliament. When the government decides to restrict illegal fundamental rights or to take anti-democratic or anti-legal measures and the parliament does not oppose them, there is no Constitution that can do anything about this. Letters on paper are meaningless until they are acted upon. This is evident from many examples. On paper, North Korea is a democratic People's Republic. Every five years, North Koreans go to the ballot box to elect the 687 members of the North Korean Parliament. According to the North Korean Constitution, the parliament is the highest power authority in the country. According to Articles 67 and beyond of the North Korean Constitution, all citizens have freedom of expression, demonstration rights, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, freedom of association, and the State is obliged to guarantee those fundamental rights. But the reality of the day is very different in North Korea. North Korea is not democratic. It's not a republic. The people of North Korea have nothing to say and neither does the parliament, despite the fact that it is all so beautifully written down. The same applies to China. According to the Chinese constitution, Article 33 and beyond, all Chinese have the right to vote, freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of religion, you name it all. The state is obliged to guarantee that. But also in China, reality is very different. For example, there are many examples of non-free countries which have many freedoms on paper, but which in practice do not. In the legal sense, there is a discrepancy between the legal and de facto situation, a gap between what is in the Constitution and everyday reality. In the meantime, the Netherlands can also be added to this list. Those who read only our Constitution get the impression that the Netherlands is a democracy with an elected parliament representing the entire Dutch people and making the laws that apply here in the Netherlands. But in reality, the highest laws that apply here in the Netherlands are not made here in parliament at all, but by unelected EU Commissioners from countries such as Bulgaria and Romania. There is no mention of this in the Constitution. In fact, the fact that power over the Netherlands has been transferred to the European Union against the express will of the Dutch people and contrary to the Constitution is totally antidemocratic alone. Fundamental rights are shamelessly dismissed in the Netherlands when the government deems it necessary. Opposition demonstrations that are prohibited when the subject of the demonstration does not fit into the street of the incumbent power. Peaceful protesters who were battered like seals because they wouldn't keep a foot and a half from each other. Freedom of expression applies in our country only to those who express an opinion accepted by the incumbent power. Other opinions are described as disinformation and fought with the greatest ease. Media that highlights certain news events from a different perspective are banned with great ease; think of the ban on a number of Russian media by the European Commission. Political opponents and whistleblowers who expose abuses and call for attention to illegal acts by the government are intimidated, stigmatized or even arrested and imprisoned with great display of power. Journalists getting the cops to the door because they would have interviewed conspiracy thinkers. Other journalists who are classified by NCTV as a threat because they would spread anti-government propaganda, i.e. not take over government propaganda without a hitch; the same NCTV that spies online with fake accounts illegally on citizens. Corrupt ministers interfering in shady deals to get party mates to fill their pockets with millions of taxpayers' money. Results of referendums that are ignored with the utmost ease and shamelessly. To make matters worse, citizens who are illegally deprived of their fundamental rights cannot go to an independent judge. They can only go to judges appointed by the government and coming from the same ideological stronghold, and judges who repeatedly twist themselves into the most impossible turns in order to justify unlawful government action. You have seen this in the premium affair, but also in the last two years in the case of many illegal fundamental rights restrictions. Mr. Chairman. I can go on for a while, but the point is clear: we can still define in our Constitution so many times and in so many different ways how democratic the Netherlands is, how important our fundamental rights are and how much value we do not attach to the rule of law, but as long as they are not acted upon in practice, they are all empty words. While we are debating meaningless symbol legislation here, we could have worked much better on plans to turn the Netherlands back into a democratic rule of law. Not on paper, but in reality, by leaving the European Union, so that the Dutch people will regain the highest authority over our country. We can do that by respecting freedom of expression again, even when it comes to unpleasant opinions. We can do this by stopping banning peaceful demonstrations, stopping spying on civilians, and in particular by taking the Dutch electorate's desire seriously again. In short, not words on paper, but actions that really help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u43	If Mr Van Meijeren were to stack fewer posts, he would also have more time to develop such proposals so that we could finally discuss a concrete proposal. I have a question that I actually had for Mr Bosma: will it be better or worse if we include a general provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u44	This is pure symbolism legislation. We voted against at first reading. At present, this general provision makes the Constitution worse. Firstly, it is wrong to suggest that the Netherlands is currently a democratic rule of law. Secondly, it is a bit easy to say that the Constitution guarantees it all. As I have indicated, it is primarily up to the government and the parliament to comply with the Constitution. As long as it is not dealt with, they are all empty words. That is why we are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u45	I would also like to say something about freedom of expression. I note that Mr Van Meijeren can speak freely here and will also be sworn in tonight as a city council member in The Hague. My question is not about that. I hear Mr Van Meijeren referring to countries such as North Korea and China. In China very gross human rights violations are taking place against a specific population group, the Uighurs. Last week we saw reports that dozens of Christians were killed in North Korea. Does he think that we in the Netherlands are so similar to what is happening in these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u46	Absolutely not. I'm glad you didn't. Let us be glad that we are not yet a country like North Korea or China. These are totally dictatorships where human rights are violated in the most disgusting forms. These are the most appealing examples to show that what is in a constitution still doesn't say anything about everyday reality. I am not saying that the Netherlands currently stands for it like China or North Korea, fortunately not, but I want to keep us from moving slowly in that direction. It is not the case that a democratic rule of law is a dictatorship overnight. However, we can see that fundamental rights are increasingly restricted in the Netherlands. I have mentioned a number of very worrying developments. Perhaps the Netherlands is not yet a dictatorship, but at least it is not a functioning democracy. Let us say, then, that we are living in a post-democratic era and that it is the question which way it is going. We are opting for fundamental rights and freedoms, and we want to restore them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u47	Obviously, I'm gonna stand back from this. The Netherlands is a functioning democracy and I think it is presumptuous that an elected parliamentarians, who can speak freely here, should question our democracy in this way. I think that's dangerous. I think Mr Van Meijeren should be very careful about that. If Mr Van Meijeren agrees with me that we are in no way comparable to China and how human rights are violated there, and with North Korea where people are persecuted and killed for their beliefs, I ask Mr Van Meijeren not to draw these comparisons here in order not to give the impression that we are going that way in the Netherlands. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u48	Well, I just mentioned a lot of worrying developments. I can repeat them, but that doesn't add much. But let me highlight one thing. It is often said that you are here as an elected parliamentarians; you can say whatever you want. That is factually incorrect. There are positions that I cannot express here, because I will be deprived of the floor. That is not because they are offensive or offensive, but because they are considered inappropriate by the President. In addition, this is also a sham parliament in many respects, because we do not make the highest laws that apply in this country at all. It is EU Commissioners who decide which newspapers Dutch people are allowed to read. It is EU Commissioners who decide which information is or is not correct; other information is called disinformation. We can jump high and low with each other. A few years ago, that became quite clear. At that time, the Dutch Parliament made it very clear that there was no need for a European body to combat disinformation. A motion for a resolution on this matter was adopted. But in the end there is nothing we can do about it, not even as elected majority representatives. Even if we unanimously argue with 150 people that certain EU rules should not apply here, there is nothing we can do about it. Everything decided in Brussels is directly above our Constitution. The Dutch people have said very clearly: no, we do not want this. It happened anyway. It happened in violation of the Constitution, Article 91, third paragraph. It should never have happened. It has been a transfer of power to the EU which is unlawful and which has definitively abolished Dutch democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Arib of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say in advance that the PvdA will only speak in this one legislative amendment. We discussed the other legislative proposals in detail at first reading. We all agreed and now we all agree. We have voted in favour, and we will do so again. I shall therefore confine myself to this proposal. The purpose of this proposal to amend the Constitution is to add a general provision at the beginning of the Constitution, which states that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. It could be said that we knew that for a long time. The Constitution serves this core value. That may be so, but it was never so clear and explicit before. It could be drawn from the content of the Constitution. The next question is then, as Mr Van Meijeren also asked, whether it is some sort of symbol law. I'm telling you, symbols can also have an important function. That is also very important. Symbols have a function, but the addition should include more in terms of the PvdA. As far as I am concerned, it is up to the legislator to include a law on the safeguarding of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, especially the Constitution. So to the government and parliament, and to the whole government. That's a job you're gonna need. A number of colleagues have already stressed that the democratic rule of law is under enormous pressure. He's under pressure from the government, from organizations and parties that don't take it so closely. Trust in the democratic rule of law has also come under pressure. The supplement affair has also been mentioned by colleagues, in particular by Leijten College. In doing so, the government has violated the individual rights of citizens. It's a government that discriminates against citizens and doesn't protect people. The rule of law has simply failed to do so. That's gonna get better, the cabinet says. That's the promise. This general provision in the Constitution must begin to remind us of that promise. My question to the Minister was once addressed to the former Minister. The fundamental rights of the parents who have been treated in this way in the case of a supplement should be protected. Of course, there are debates on this with different leaders, but I do miss the Minister for the Interior, who deals with fundamental rights. So my question is: what is she going to do, from her role as Minister of the Interior, about this terrible supplemental affair? The Minister's answer to our question in the written round states that the government will also use the general provision to call for social attention to fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, for example in education. This has already been mentioned in the law governing citizenship education. The law, which should make it easier for radical organisations whose aim is to overthrow the democratic rule of law, also refers to the concept of "democratic rule of law" as referred to in this general provision. So why shouldn't this be possible with the supplementing affair? In itself, it is fine that this cabinet wants to work on this and pay more attention to fundamental rights, but is it enough? Not quite as far as we're concerned. The government points out that a reference to the general provision in the Constitution would also quote "in future legislative proposals, policy documents, debates or, for example, speeches'. We are now discussing the second reading of this draft Constitution. This can only be done after there have been elections and finally a new government. It has many plans in the coalition agreement. How specific account has been taken of the task to be assigned to the general provision? That's my question. Then there is the constitutional review. It is well known that so far judges have not been allowed to review the Constitution. This is a matter for the legislator. Thus, in the practice in which the laws are implemented, a judge cannot, on the basis of the Constitution, question a legal provision and assess whether it is compatible with the Constitution. However, the court can determine whether it is compatible with international conventions. That's still weird. Now that we are in the process of strengthening the importance of our Constitution, it would be a good thing to allow this review of laws to the Constitution. The coalition agreement states that even then I quote 'the elaboration of constitutional review is being taken into consideration'. That is a good start, but the subject is certainly not new. There is an opinion from 2018 from the State Committee on Parliamentary System led by Remkes. At the end of the previous cabinet, ministers Ollongren and Dekker published an overview of the important aspects of the introduction of constitutional review. As far as I'm concerned, the buttons can be cut. The question is: how far has the Minister gone with this? I'd like to hear an answer. Finally. This minister was a spokesperson on this bill last time. Now she's defending the bill as a minister. I understand that's a different part. I am not going to quote everything that this Minister said at the time as a spokesman, but I am still curious as to why she is now embracing this bill. What reasons have led her to do so? I also had a question for the CDA, but I don't have to ask it anymore. Mrs Inge van Dijk has already answered that question. The CDA voted against this bill at first reading, but I hear from Mrs Inge van Dijk that she is still moving along as it should be in politics and consider it important to vote in favour this time. Mr. Chairman. With regard to this addition to the guarantee function of the Constitution, it would of course be great if all parties at this time, in which fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law are under discussion, were to vote in favour of this law, also as a signal to those who wish to undermine fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you. This has put an end to the first term of office. The Minister indicated that he would prepare the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u52	I give the floor to the Minister to answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u53	Mr. Chairman. Several Members have said very well that we are discussing so many constitutional proposals today for the first time since 1983. In this sense, the Constitution is a living document. We must protect it, but we must also maintain and renew it. Today, therefore, we are discussing a proposal to include a general provision in the Constitution. A few weeks ago, I was allowed to talk to this Chamber about an amendment to the Constitution. That's something that's always special. But that we have five in a row today, I wouldn't have thought in advance. Several Members have also pointed out that the Constitution is our basic constitutional document. That's exactly what I'm underlining. That is the basis of all our public action. It creates bodies, gives government officials powers, indicates what the government may or may not do, where the boundaries lie. Mr Sneller mentioned the limitation of traditional freedom rights. That is a very important element. The Constitution therefore deserves to be maintained, renewed, but also protected. We must be careful in dealing with the values in the Constitution and respect and cherish them. Mr. Chairman. The text of the general provision reads: "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. As regards the nature of this provision and its importance, I have also heard several Members of Parliament say that it is a general provision on the one hand. Then you can say that it also has a symbolic effect. On the other hand, however, this aspect has been deepened in recent years. As a result of the child care allowance affair, your Chamber asked the government, for example, to set up a broader state committee to analyse the functioning of the rule of law and to propose strengthening it. These preparations are under way. This also shows the importance of the democratic rule of law, which includes that general provision. If fundamental rights have been violated, this must also be an important starting point for public action. This urgency has actually become stronger since the first reading of this proposal. Mrs Arib also said so beautifully that I am now here as a ruler. So I really have a different role than last time. Mrs Van Dijk now, of course, plays the role as a representative of a political party and as a Member of Parliament. Mrs Arib asks me, like others, where I see change from the first reading. This is in the awareness of the fact that, in the childcare allowance affair, we have not complied with the guarantees of a democratic rule of law. In doing so, the gravity of this general provision is given a different colour, as Mrs Van Dijk pointed out and as Mrs Leijten also said. Also because it is at the forefront, the general provision is now a constant reminder of the fact that we must put it first as a constitutionalist in the drafting of new legislation and the like. So there really is a floor to it compared to the first reading. So the urgency has also changed. I think it is important to mention, like Members, that it also implements the motion tabled by Mr Engels and others in the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then what does this general provision do? It stresses the normality of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, improves the basic principle of the Constitution as the basic document of our state system and its core principles and clarifies the guarantee function of the Constitution. Mrs Van der Graaf asks me why the cabinet has not chosen to mention more elements in the general provision. As Mrs van der Graaf pointed out, we cannot change this proposal at this time, because this is the second reading. However, this proposal achieves an optimum balance in its austerity between, on the one hand, strengthening the institutional and organisational function and the guarantee function of the Constitution and, on the other hand, the sober nature of the Constitution. It also offers the space for various specific interpretations in that order. That makes it a really good basic provision. If Mrs Van der Graaf also asks why exactly this wording was chosen, I can say that it is, of course, the Chamber that has chosen it, because it was an amendment that I believe Mr Middendorp of the VVD proposed to the Chamber. Mrs Van der Graaf says that human dignity could have been included, for example. I think it's a good idea to go into that as well. Human dignity is an important core value, which also underpins fundamental rights. However, the general provision does not seek to highlight fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. It aims to explain the foundations of the state system. So it is not an explanation of fundamental rights, but an explanation of the foundations on which we have built our state system. In my view, it was Mr Sneller and Mr Strolenberg who spoke about the state's right to return. It is these constitutional principles that are being secured here. The wording has also been aligned with international wordings, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. We have also looked at other countries, such as Norway and Finland, which have also chosen a very sober wording. Mr. Chairman. In this context, there were also a number of questions about the comprehensibility of the Constitution. Mr Sneller and Mrs Van der Graaf had them. And Mrs Van der Plas made very explicit the value of the Constitution. How can we ensure that this is better known and that young people really have the Constitution in mind: oh, that is the basic document between the government and us, young people, which has been agreed that we as young people are protected by what the government does? It's also that relationship. In addition, a law entered into force in August 2021 clarifying the citizenship mandate. This reference, including for education, once again made it clear that the Constitution is really an important document and an important starting point. In addition, attention will be paid next year to the 175th anniversary of the Constitution. In dealing with the initiative proposal a few weeks ago, I made a commitment that I will return to the Chamber. And we already have a very nice book. But at the same time I realize that a booklet for the young people of today is actually a bit of an archaic document. We also have an app in which all constitutional articles can be found at a glance. That app contains the official text, but there is also a simple version, actually a kind of explanation of what is in the Constitution. When it comes to making young people coming in here aware of the Constitution, 'boys, you can download the app on it', I also see a task for the Bureau, because I am a guest in this Chamber, to see how you can strengthen it. But apart from books, there are also apps, very practical tools, those young people who come in here can download on their phones, to take the Constitution under their arms right when they visit here and to always carry it with them. I don't know many young people who don't have their phones on them every day. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions were about the constitutional review. Several questions have been asked, by Mr Strolenberg, but also by Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Arib. Mr Strolenberg's first question was: how would the general provision relate to constitutional review? In my words: does the general provision actually lend itself to judicial review? Let us start with the existing situation. The possibility that we now have is that we can only test against the lower legislation, because Article 120 of the Constitution does not allow the courts to judge laws against the Constitution. Direct judicial review of lower regulation to the general provision is difficult to imagine, as the general provision does not directly contain a very concrete standard. That provision is really intended as a task for the constitutionalist first. So is this room. An important part of the constitutionalist is the Lower House, as is the Upper House. That provision is also an important starting point for those who work in the government. Basic principles are fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. But, I say to Mr Strolenberg, because of the interpretative function, the general provision can indirectly play a role in the judicial review of constitutional provisions other than the general provision. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we are also in the process of constitutional review and the mandate from the coalition agreement to work on this. Together with my colleague for Legal Protection, I am working on a main letter to this Chamber, which I would like to send to the Chamber before the summer. In it we outline the main lines. If you allow constitutional review, what options are there and what directions does this cabinet intend to take to further this? In doing so, the Court will also be able to discuss the issues it considers important at this early stage. After you have deleted Article 120 of the Constitution, there are still a lot of different types of ways to proceed. That's what I'm saying to Mrs Van der Plas. That is why I think it is important to talk to the Chamber about this first before we put forward a constitutional proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u54	Mrs. Van der Plas for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u55	At the end of April last year, a motion was adopted asking the government to submit, within one year, legislative proposals to delete Article 120 of the Constitution and to submit a framework law on supervision which guarantees the independence of supervisors. So there is actually a mandate from the Chamber to come forward with legislative proposals within a year. The cabinet has a month to do that, if I can calculate correctly. So I'm curious to see what's going on with that. What happened to that motion? Is it being implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u56	There are two aspects to that motion. The first aspect is now also enshrined in the coalition agreement. In addition to the motion, there is also a real mandate for constitutional review. I say to Mrs van der Plas: I cannot pass a legislative proposal to the Chamber within a month, but I do think it is important to discuss the various possibilities of carrying out constitutional review with the Chamber. I realise that if I propose to amend the Constitution here, two thirds of the House will eventually have to support it. The other point raised by Mrs van der Plas is indeed the independence of inspections. How is it better to secure it? This is also a task that is ultimately contained in the coalition agreement. I have to take further steps in this regard, and I do not have that in the Chamber this month either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u57	I understand that it will be a little short notice, but I would like to know what has been done by the cabinet over the past year to implement this motion. What steps have been taken to bring forward a legislative proposal? Has anyone been working on that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u58	When it comes to constitutional review, my predecessor has already submitted a number of options to this Chamber. I think we're gonna have a conversation about that soon. At least I saw it on the agenda of a committee debate on 14 April. I also think that this is a good starting point for continuing discussions with the Chamber on this matter. At the same time, on the basis of these principles, we are, of course, also in the process of setting up a State Commission on the rule of law, which should also advise on a number of matters. The draft assignment for this is also with this Chamber to discuss with each other. I think it is also on the agenda of 14 April. That does not mean, as I say to Mrs van der Plas, that we are sitting still in the meantime. But I really want to start by discussing the main points of the constitutional review with this Chamber, together with the Minister for Legal Protection. I realize that if I put a proposal here, there will eventually have to be a two-thirds majority. So it's not a matter of: I'm sending something to the Chamber and it's gonna be okay. I would first like to hear from the Chamber which direction it intends to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u59	Finalizing, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u60	This seems to me to be a bit of a back-up. We are going to talk about it and debate it, but there is simply a clear mandate from this Chamber to come forward with that bill within a year. I note that this has not yet happened. And if I listen to it like that, it might take a long time before that bill comes in. So my question remains in that sense. What concrete, hard steps are being taken to get that bill to the Chamber? And how long do we have to wait for that? Can the Minister give an estimate of that? How much longer does the Chamber have to wait for that bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u61	It is true, I say to Mrs Van der Plas, that we do not have such a bill within a year. It is also important to discuss with the Chamber what views the Chamber has when you introduce constitutional review, what that means and how you carry it out. Before the summer, the Chamber will receive a general letter on this subject in which there will be a further deepening of which variants there are. Then, in the debate with the Chamber, we determine the direction. Hopefully we will be able to do that soon. Then there's got to be a bill. It depends on how complicated its implementation is. But I recognize that this is a matter of urgency. Not only Mrs van der Plas, but also other Members of this Chamber have already urged me to speed up and ensure that this remains at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u62	I would actually like to ask the Minister to proceed with the reply. In the last interruption there was already some repetition of the previous two questions. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u63	Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Sneller's question was: Minister, are you still working on the various proposals sufficiently quickly? What is the status of the proposal to amend the Constitution in relation to the right to return? It was indeed offered to the Council of State for advice by the previous cabinet. We have now received the advice. I am preparing to submit the proposal to the Chamber. I expect it to be after the summer, because we also have to do it through the National Council of Ministers. I can see that after the summer we have to do it at a pace. Mrs Maatoug asked the question: is there also a general provision in the Statute? The interesting thing is that the Statute and the Constitution already have a different structure. The Statute has a preamble, so that already has a kind of general introduction. So you see differences in that. I say to Mrs Maatoug: know, of course, that I am not only talking about the Statute, but that I am doing so together with all four countries within the Kingdom, including Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. So far, the other countries have not shown any interest in such a general provision. But I say to Mrs Maatoug that the Statute already has a preamble. It has a slightly different character than a general provision, but in that sense they already have such an introduction. Mr. Chairman. A number of members referred to the past period and to the child care allowance affair. I think it is important to come back to that. They talked about the feeling of trust and about the damage to confidence in the democratic rule of law. I agree with these members. I recognize that feeling. This requires that we really do all the work together to ensure that we show that we fully implement the democratic rule of law and that people should not be harmed in such a way. That is why the Cabinet has taken 90 actions to tackle the problems and to ensure that we do justice where we have not done justice. A number of things that are taking place in this area are happening with my cooperation or under my coordination. I would like to mention, for example, the establishment of the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism and the drawing up of the national programme currently under way by the NCDR. In addition, we are working on a route in administrative law. We want to make the General Administrative Law more human-oriented. So we are also really looking at the general principles of good governance and the application of the principle of proportionality. I am not going to go into detail on the principle of proportionality, but we will be discussing this later. Think also of the hardness clauses. The motion tabled by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Jetten was about the fact that sometimes laws can really have a final and a hardness clause. When a law is supposed to be just or legitimate, but does not work out justly, you can indeed make a different decision in exceptional situations. Furthermore, we are joining the State Commission on the Rule of Law. There are therefore several actions and responsibilities that I take up in the context of the childcare allowance affair. Mr. Chairman. More members have indicated that the Constitution deserves protection, maintenance and renewal. What steps are we going to take in the coming period? First of all, in the coalition agreement, the cabinet was instructed to move the various proposals of the Remkes State Commission forward and, ultimately, to ensure proper implementation. That's a lot of them. If I take the House's own-initiative proposals into account, I think we will come up with a total of twelve constitutional proposals. That's a considerable amount. The various Chambers have quite a long journey to go. In addition, there is, of course, the process of constitutional review. I really want to give that priority. I want to give the time and attention needed to ensure that we can take steps together. I would also like to examine, in the context of digital developments, whether certain fundamental rights may or may not need to be adapted in the coming period. But that is also something I would like to take up further with the Secretary of State for Digitalization. That is what I intend to do in the coming period. That really is a huge agenda right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u64	I get that. Yet I always hope for an extra step of ambition. Of course, there are already two state committees that have advised on digital fundamental rights. Is the Minister going to do further research on this or is she going to make a concrete proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u65	No, I think it was the State Commission of... the 2010 silver book.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u66	From party mate Franken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u67	Exactly, my party mate Franken, in 2000. That was a very interesting and beautiful document, but it was a time when we didn't have any WhatsApp and we didn't have any digital devices in our house yet. Since 2000, of course, digital development has gone very fast. I can imagine that, as far as the investigation and digitisation of fundamental rights are concerned, I may be able to promise the Chamber that I will simply come back to this in a letter, also because I want to do so with my colleague, the Secretary of State. We are really looking at what needs to be done in this area, also in view of the new developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u68	The Constitutional Commission has also looked at this again. In fact, they both say: make it technologically neutral, so that it's all about whatsApp or that it's getting a new form regardless of the progressive technologicalization guaranteed by that fundamental right. In my view, the most important thing we are trying to do is not do the work again and work towards really new wordings, so that it simply comes into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u69	Of course, but for Article 13, of course, today it is on the table that we make it technologically neutral. We all know that, but perhaps for the people listening: we have here the first proposal on the secret of letters. We are indeed modernising this because it is no longer in line with society and the opportunities in society for digitalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u70	First of all, thank you for the answer. You mentioned Middendorp, but you probably meant Koopmans, who tabled an amendment to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u72	I am still curious about the more practical implementation. What if there's a judicial review? What difference does this provision make?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u73	Indeed, Mr Koopmans. Thank you for that. Thank you for saying that. It does matter. Why? It is also an appeal to us as a constitutionalist to test it. That is not just me, as a member of the cabinet and as a minister; that is also this Chamber. It stresses once again and recalls that the basis of our Constitution is on fundamental rights and their safeguarding and on the democratic rule of law. The moment you change something in that, you have to be extra careful not to hide it. So it just matters in that sense. But it is true that it will get deeper if you take out the constitutional review, so Article 120 Constitution, because then it will really be a provision that is part of the Constitution as a whole. Because then you can test directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u74	I would like to add a little to what Mr Strolenberg said, but actually go back to that provision. She has gained in value from what we have seen of scandal, but what does this minister have to say to people who look at this constitutional treatment and who think: what is this going to mean to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u75	Wide of course: many proposals have emerged from the cabinet response to the childcare allowance affair, with 80 recommendations. We're gonna set it in motion right now. This should also mean, in practice, that we are not going to make the mistakes we have made with each other again. It seems that this Chamber is adopting this proposal, the general provision as it stands. If the First Chamber does the same, it is our first reminder in making our legislation that it is ultimately about guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the inhabitants of our country. That also creates a responsibility to make sure you do the right thing. The point is that you have in mind the freedom of expression or the importance of privacy, the resident, the Dutchman, the person who is the addressee in that Constitution with the State. It's about securing those interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u76	Mrs Van der Graaf asked how we are going to make the Constitution live in people's hearts. Actually, I thought she put it nicely. So I immediately think: how are we going to make sure that it lives in the hearts of the lawmakers, including ourselves, but certainly also in the hearts of the execution? Because, of course, we can see that it also went wrong there. In the supplement scandal there are thirteen laws, which are precisely about the guarantees: how do you deal with people who object to a government decision? Not to mention the morally reprehensible blacklist, in the words of the Secretary of State for Taxation itself. So how are we gonna make sure... we're gonna handle this. The Minister will be going to the First Chamber shortly, but what is the government going to do to make it live in those hearts? I'd love to see that happen to young people, too. But I would also like it to live where the laws are written, but certainly where the laws are implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u77	Where the laws are being written, we have, of course, also worked hard over the past period to make a manual constitutional review. This has also been really renewed and clarified in the review of legislative lawyers. A number of examples have been given. That is the start of those who make the laws, after, of course, the Chamber will also play its role. This has also received extra attention and has been further developed. If it is correct, the Court has now received that document. The Chamber had also asked in the debate on discrimination: how do you make it tangible? How do you make sure it's on his desk with someone who makes daily laws? That's one of the ways to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u78	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u79	I actually think that some of the laws that are currently under discussion should simply be repealed, because they do not pass the basic test at all. Think of the free sharing of all kinds of information. We're about to talk about the letter secret. We started the legal process on the pilot nationwide address quality, but what happens there is unconstitutional on all sides. But then we are asked as a House of Representatives: lay it down legally, because that is useful for the execution. I would also like those glasses to look at at at least the laws that come from the ministry of this minister himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u80	One of the other important steps that we are taking together is, of course, that all ministries, also on the basis of a motion from this Chamber, are in the process of investigating harshness in legislation. Heart humidities are then laws that act unjustly for certain people, which cannot be the intention if you look at the spirit of the law. A lot of work is being done on that. At the same time, we have conducted a wide consultation. It means that we have also asked the outside world to provide harshness that they themselves recognise in the legislation. There has also been a broad reaction to this. Now we're trying to figure out what the image is, whether we need to change a law or do something else. I'll come back to the Chamber with my colleagues. So that is one of those concrete actions that has also been taken a step further in reflecting where we can do business better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u81	Please continue. Maybe the Minister can tell us how far she is with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u82	Mr. Chairman. I think I had pretty much completed the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u83	There is another interruption by Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u84	As a result of the conversation of just now, the following. There are people who sometimes say: there have been times when the lawyers and especially the constitutional thinkers were very dominant in The Hague, also with regard to how decisions were taken, and over time that dominance has been taken over by those who go over the pennies. My question is how to ensure that in new proposals but also in existing legislation, that constitutional framework is very dominant and also a limiting framework, in the sense that you cannot make proposals that do not comply with it. At the moment our impression is that budgetary frameworks are often seen as a restriction, because if you don't have the money, you can't file the law, and then you have to do something with it. What is this minister going to do to get that dominance of thought to the other ministers? 'Cause I think there's still a battle to be won.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u85	Maybe I choose a slightly different approach to this matter than Mrs Maatoug, but not really. Last week I could not be in a debate that I would have liked to be in, but which was unfortunately not possible because I was home with corona, although of course I did follow the debate. And that was the debate on Work on Implementation, in which Mrs Maatoug and other Members were present. The heart of that debate is the following. We have problems in society, social issues that we want to resolve together because we want to make this country better together. That's what instruments are for. You have to make sure that the legislation you make can ultimately be translated into policy and that it also leads to an implementation practice that ultimately does the right thing in terms of what you had in mind. You have to make sure that what happens in the implementation, you eventually hear back what you have done in the legislation. If Mrs Maatoug says that there are schools of people looking at something financially or legally, then my approach would be: besides always balancing in what we do legally and financially, we also need to ensure that the laws and policies we make eventually work in practice and that if this is not the case, we get the signals back with each other to bring about change. At the same time, things sometimes go very well, but we are also here to solve problems. So I wouldn't want to speak in schools. I would like to bring the translation of the implementation back to the legislation, including an implementation check in advance to see if the legislation in question works. I think it's important to really think of that as leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u86	My follow-up question then is more of a practical one, namely how to do this and do it well, and not just afterwards. It would be a shame if the minister didn't say, "Hey, colleagues, have you been paying attention?" Hence my comparison with that financial framework. Indeed, the whole process of creating a law or a regulation is well aware of that. The moment it doesn't meet or you don't have the budget, you have a problem and you're the one who makes the proposal, also problem owner, even here in the Chamber. But we never hear: the motion or the bill or the amendment is not constitutional. This also applies to policy preparation on the cabinet side. So my very specific question to the Minister is: what can the Minister do about it, including in terms of policy preparation? I made a comparison because I want to have the same kind of dominance of that financial thinking in constitutional thinking. I think that is essential. I think the Minister shares that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u87	Recognizable. In many legislative processes, of course, constitutional affairs and legislation are at an early stage. It's in my department. That indeed weighs the constitutional aspects in advance and gives advice on how to implement things or not. In addition, of course, we have this Handleiding Constitutional Review. But you need to be aware of this throughout the policy-making process up to the end product. It is also very valuable if, in the further examination of legislation, we explicitly ask each other questions about constitutionality and the constitutional aspects. Mr Van der Staaij has also delivered opinions in this Chamber with other Members on how he looks at this. I believe that we will have a good whole throughout the legislative process. But the people of Constitutional Affairs and Law that I have at my disposal always have a very important role to play in these official front portals and in the official preparation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u88	Thank you. This has put an end to the Minister's first term. Let me look at the MPs: is there a need for a second term? I see that this is the case for some Members. First of all, Mr Sneller. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. First about making the Constitution more public. The Minister has promised to return to the celebration of 175 years of the Constitution and the idea of Mr Van der Graaf to publish a booklet. Previously, a motion was passed in the Chamber to ensure that the Constitution is in courts. Maybe it's a good thing that if the minister comes up with that letter, she'll also put together some of these ideas. Let that creative mind be through again. I believe that there is a broad ambition here to do more with this. I would also like to see more ambition for the agenda that will then come in to continue the discussion on the Constitution. I realize there's all that's going on, but it would be good to put a little more on that. On digital fundamental rights, the Minister specifically promised that she would come with a letter. I assume that the system of restrictions will also be taken into account, as the committees we have just mentioned in the debate on the interruption have also advised. I would like another commitment on that point. At the end we still have to count and then we have to get to 100 in this Chamber. I have heard the PVV and Forum for Democracy so that they remain in line with their previous position. I haven't heard the SGP, but I know it as if they always stick to their previous position. The CDA has made it clear that they will vote differently. I could not quite place what Mr Strolenberg's question meant, especially since the VVD voted differently in the Senate at first reading. I couldn't find it in their election programme either, whereas the VVD played such an important role in this, with first signatory Rutte, second signatory Blok, third signatory Van der Steur and the Koopmans amendment. I am therefore very curious to hear what he has to say in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u90	A number of Members waive a second term. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the clear presentation and for commenting on my comment on human dignity and its importance. She, too, has said that this is actually the basis for our laws. That's what I've argued here. It's clear, all right. The bill is there the way it is. There's nothing we can do to change that. I also said that I think it is important that we look at what has been laid down in the international conventions. The state committee has also pointed this out. This afternoon the right to a fair trial is also at issue. But the ban on torture and inhuman treatment, as well as the right to life, are examples of rights that are not included in our Constitution, but which we are already committed to. I would ask the Minister to look at that again. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in 2010, the Constitutional Commission noted that several important human rights were not included in our Constitution;]] [[Whereas the symbolic role of the Constitution can be strengthened by including certain fundamental international human rights, to which the Netherlands is already bound, in our own national Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how fundamental human rights which are not explicitly included therein can be added to the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Maatoug and Mr Arib.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35786-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u92	I fully agree with what Mr Sneller said about the publication of the Constitution and how we can get it from the Dutch in the hearts and minds of children, young people. That is not only our inhabitants, but also the lawmakers. I think that is a nice addition, which was also reflected in Mrs Leijten's interruption. I am very curious to see how the Minister is taking concrete action on the ideas put forward by the Chamber. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that I am only participating in this legal process, so not in the other constitutional processes this afternoon. But my group will vote for all these constitutional changes, just as we did at first reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u93	Thank you. The second term of office has come to an end. I shall suspend for a few moments so that the Minister can have access to the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u94	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u95	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the various questions that have been asked. And also thank you for calling for the Constitution to receive the attention it deserves in the year of 175 years of the Constitution. I come after the summer with a letter in which I pick up a number of aspects that have been mentioned by the Chamber. In that context, I believe that there is still a commitment to give substance to a constitutional bank. That bill also needs to be dealt with by the Upper House. A further question has been asked about digitisation and limitation systems. We are currently looking at how we can design an investigation in such a way that it also offers immediate handles to be able to take another step further. I think I'll do that around the summer. I shall come back to the question about the system of restrictions. I shall then go back to the various aspects that have been raised. I agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that human dignity is a foundation in every fundamental right, because it is ultimately also about man and the dignity of man. We are now taking steps with the various constitutional reforms and, of course, we are also very busy working on the proposals of the Remkes State Committee. As I said, there are a large number of them. If I take the House's own-initiative proposals into account, I think we will have 12 proposals. There is also the constitutional review proposal that we are continuing at the moment. A State Commission on the Rule of Law is also being set up. It may also be possible to draw up certain opinions. At least I don't want to rule that out in advance. Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Maatoug and Mr Arib asked whether it was not appropriate to consider whether and how fundamental human rights could be incorporated into the Constitution. I'd still like to dissuade that motion. Why? First of all, because all fundamental human rights apply on the basis of Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution. These are included in the international conventions. So these fundamental rights are there, and that is something we can check on. That is why at the moment I do not see any clear added value to incorporate new fundamental rights. At the moment, I really want to ensure that we carry out the task I have been given in the coalition agreement, namely to implement the proposals of the Remkes State Commission. The Remkes Committee's report contained no proposals to incorporate fundamental human rights into the Constitution. My guiding principle is the State Remkes Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u96	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u97	They were not in the report of the Remkes State Commission, but they were in the report of the Constitutional Commission of the State. I think the legal process has made it clear that it is good to look back a little further. I'm just looking for the Minister's objection. Does that include: we do so much already, we do a lot of research, we just can't do this again? Or is it more fundamental in nature? This afternoon we will of course add one more: the right to a fair trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u98	It's two-fold. On the one hand, on the basis of Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution, international treaties have direct effect, so that also applies to fundamental human rights. With this, it does not directly have any clear added value to include. The second is that in the coalition agreement I was given an explicit mandate to bring forward the proposals from the Remkes State Commission. That's the big job I get to deal with right now. There is no mention of fundamental human rights. That makes it clear at the moment what I am allowed to put my energy into. I have also heard from this Chamber today that it is important that we take rapid steps in the area of constitutional review in the coming period. It's a really big job to do that right. So it's on one side from the content, on the other side from the assignment I've been given and on the third side it's about: what am I supposed to focus on right now? There's a lot of it, so the reason I'm deceiving this motion is threefold, I say to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u99	I'd like to go into that. The reason for this is not that these fundamental human rights do not already apply. We can rely on this on the basis of the international conventions. But we are having a debate here today on the symbolic role of including a general provision in the Constitution. That's exactly why we need to take another look at this. I think it is a bit odd that the Minister should devote a lot of words to expressing the importance of a general provision and its symbolic nature, but that argument would now wipe this motion off the table. The mandate given to the Minister under the coalition agreement is one of the main objectives. There's nothing more in there than it is, you'd almost say. Surely I would like to tell the Minister of the Interior that it is good to keep thinking about: what could be even better? There is also a mandate about our Constitution and what could make it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u100	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u101	We ask the government to look at this again in an easily accessible way and yet to reconsider what the Constitution Committee wrote about it at the time. I would like to make that request to the Minister again: would she not reconsider it and perhaps lighten it a little bit? We are not directing a legislative proposal during this period, but at least give us a letter of consideration that we can discuss again in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u102	Mr. Chairman. I have devoted many words to it, because I want to explain why I am looking at the request made by Mrs Van der Graaf this time differently. This has to do with the fact that these human rights can already be assessed at the moment. They simply apply and they have direct effect on the basis of Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution. There is a great task and also a delineation with the Remkes State Commission to get to work on it now, and this element has not been explicitly put forward by the State Committee. In addition, I have also been given a task of the Chamber to make progress on a number of proposals that lie here, and I really want to do so as a matter of priority in order to ensure that we can take these important steps together. In this sense, we do not disagree on the importance of human rights. They have an effect in the Dutch legal system, even at this time of the motion. That's why I keep dissuading her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u103	The motion has been dissuaded. I am looking at the Minister, but that has put an end to the reply and has ended this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-2.u104	The votes on this amendment and the motion tabled will take place next Tuesday. I suggest we suspend for lunch until 2:15 p.m. We shall then proceed with the following amendment, on the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy (35790). I shall suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m.
