ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the oral cover deal. Before I give the floor to the rulers, I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u2	I announced in the first term that I would table a motion of censure. I would like that motion to be put to the vote by roll call. I understand that I have to ask the Chamber in advance and I cannot decide for myself. So here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u3	And you want to vote today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u4	I would like to vote on the motion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u5	I'll put that in the room. We have the agreement that we will vote on Tuesday in principle, but now the request is to vote today. We also have the agreement on roll-call votes that we normally suspend three hours prior to that, but I assume that the debate will last three hours. So my question is: is there a majority in favour of Mr Van Haga's request to vote today instead of Tuesday? I'm gonna take the members off. First of all, Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u6	Support. It is also the tradition to vote against motions of censure on the day itself. Of course, you do that in the interest of the ruler who dangles.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u7	I am the first applicant for the debate. I continue to find it strange to announce a motion in the first term when the debate still has to be held. I'm trying to do that with openness. But if the question of trust is on the table tonight, it seems logical that we should vote on it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u8	Yes, please vote tonight. So support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u9	I agree with Mrs Kuik's words, although I am not the applicant for the debate. I do think we should deal with this a little more purely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u10	Is there anyone who feels differently about this? I see that not many Members are yet standing up, so I am actually going to conclude that there is a majority in favour of voting today on the motion that may be tabled in second time. Mr Van Haga has also indicated that he wants a roll-call vote on the motion to be tabled by him. I would ask Members to bear in mind that we are going to vote by roll call today. We have the deal: either suspend for three hours, or vote on another day. We are doing it now, but the debate will last for three hours. That's how we arranged this. I shall then be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport. I'd like to welcome her. This is her first performance in our plenary room, and it is a very spicy debate right away. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. It's my second gig, by the way. There was a two-minute debate earlier. I forgot. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar dank u wel.]] Before I begin this first term, I would like to say that the former Director-General of VWS has informed me that, unlike what has been suggested in this debate, he has never been a member of the CDA. That might be good to know. Furthermore, we almost forget that it is also a happy day. In this way, too, I would like to congratulate Mrs Pouw-Verweij on the birth of her daughter. I have an introductory text and then I have eight blocks in which I will answer the questions. I shall deal in turn with the content of the Deloitte investigation, with the state of the investigation, with questions about yesterday's information, with the role of Minister De Jonge in RGA and with the agreement with RGA. The sixth block is about the Wob. The seventh block is about the private e-mails and finally I have a block left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u12	Before you continue, you mentioned the dg, but I think you mean the sg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u13	Yes. He was former dg of VWS and indeed the sg of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u14	Yes. Then we have the same thing for the Acts right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u15	President and honourable Members of Parliament, as well as, of course, the people at home. We are in the middle of a debate on a subject which has been very much addressed in recent months, namely research into the procurement of personal protective equipment. This focus is mainly on the agreement on mouth masks with Relief Goods Alliance BV. You know, it's been recalled a few times today that the circumstances at the time were such that we all had only one goal: as many mouth caps as possible had to come to the Netherlands as soon as possible, so that there were enough in the care to be able to work safely. The pressure was really immense. However, we all need clarity about the facts, about everyone's role and about why things went the way they did. But I like a complete picture, because only then can we learn from the past and do better in the future. Like your room, I have a lot of questions that still have to be answered. Believe me, I am very sorry that I have yet to share research results with you. I've informed you of how this happened. Before I said yes to the question of whether I wanted to be a minister, I set myself a number of goals. One of these aims was to increase public openness and transparency, so that we can also work on the basis of trust. That is why I want to be open and transparent, especially in this case. I know that the investigation will ultimately provide that transparency. I would like to stress once again that care and completeness are paramount here. Quality goes for speed here, because only that quality helps to get that full picture and really get answers to the different questions, such as what choices have been made when purchasing personal protective equipment, by whom and why. In that light, I see your question for a factual account of the role of Minister De Jonge as follows. I understand the question well, but I still think that the clarification of some of the facts does not do justice to the care and completeness of the investigation, whereas precisely that care and completeness are essential. As the research office indicated during the technical briefing last Tuesday, they are committed to delivering the results as soon as possible and at the latest before the summer recess. I look forward to that, because I think it is important to learn lessons from it. Of course, I have been looking for ways to speed it up, but I will come back to that in a moment in the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u16	I assume this was the end of your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u17	Yeah, this was the end of my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u18	Yes. A lot of questions have been asked, but there is already an interruption. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u19	Perhaps the Minister will go into it a little further later, but she has already explained why she did not give the facts to the Chamber. I would like to comment on that. That has to do with the following. Article 68 of the Constitution governs the right of information of the House of Representatives. It is not for the Minister to determine which information is or is not shared. That is up to the Chamber, and not only to a majority of the Chamber, but even to an individual member. If the Minister refuses to give information, then she must exercise the right to change and that must be submitted to the Council of Ministers. Did she?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u20	I think this is about the difference between information and the facts. The facts will have to be provided at the end of Deloitte's investigation. This means that all the information that is available is the information that is available via VWS, the information we have through the investigative journalists, but also the other information that Deloitte has through the separate window opened for that purpose is brought together and verified in a forensic way over time. So that's back to the source and knowing exactly that's what happened. That's a complicated methodology. Unfortunately, that methodology takes longer than we want, and than I want. But it's only after that that I have information that I can give you that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u21	The Chamber has never asked for completeness at this time. You can't, because the investigation is still ongoing. But the documents that came to the House of Representatives yesterday were, if I am correct, already given to Deloitte's researchers in September. So this information was just available in the department. So this could have just been put in a timeline. That is exactly what we asked for in order to be able to conduct the substantive debate on the specific question of how the information was provided to the Chamber. And again, it's not up to the Minister to decide that she doesn't want to do that or that she finds it untimely. The Chamber has asked for this and then it has to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u22	It's not that I don't want to give it, but the information is only reliable and usable when we have all the information around that deal. That is exactly what Deloitte's research should yield. A forensic investigation is a complicated process in which the source is also fully verified. That's why I offered you the technical briefing. That's something other than sharing the underlying information with you. By the way, VWS doesn't have all the information. Deloitte collects the information, has a separate window and uses all the other sources available. They verify that, put that in a timeline and also go back to the source to make sure they know exactly that happened. That context is extremely important in order to be able to point out the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u24	Then why did these pieces come to the Chamber yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u25	These documents have come to the Chamber because Minister De Jonge has sent me a letter explaining his role at the moment. In addition, these underlying apps and e-mails were sent to the Chamber as underlying information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u26	Very briefly, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u27	I find this really problematic. If the House of Representatives asks for information, the Minister says: you will not have it, because I have to wait for Deloitte's investigation. Then Minister De Jonge says "I want this information to be shared now, because I want to be able to defend myself now" and the information is given. I think that... I am addressing you in particular, Mr President, because I can already expect the answer. I'm addressing you. I find this unacceptable from a cabinet. If the Chamber asks for information, we don't get it. If Minister De Jonge says "I'd like to share that information now," then suddenly it's a good idea. I really don't think that's possible. I believe that the cabinet should be called upon to do so, and the Prime Minister should also be called upon to do so. I want the Minister here to acknowledge that this is not the right course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u28	I disagree with Mr Klaver that I do not want to give any information. I have always taken the view that I want to give this information as a result, as a factual account of Deloitte. Minister De Jonge has asked me to forward his letter. I agreed to that, because if I had, I wouldn't have sent it to you. To illustrate this, he also asked me to forward the underlying apps and e-mails. We have a debate on these apps. You will also notice in substance that exactly what I am concerned about is that we now have parts of the information and that we are going to have the substantive debate. I still prefer to do so on the basis of Deloitte's facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr Klaver also appeals to me. The question remains, of course, why the information was not sent to the Chamber earlier, because there was a request from the Chamber to receive that information. I think that is the background to Mr Klaver's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u30	That is true, especially since the Minister now says that Minister De Jonge wanted the information to be shared now. That was apparently a more important argument to send the information to the Chamber than if the House of Representatives asked. I'm really asking the Minister. This is a point of principle. This isn't about political color or how I weigh the information that's in the pieces. The Chamber asks for information, but then we don't get it because the Minister doesn't think it's wise. A fellow minister, Minister De Jonge, says "I would like to bring this out because I have to be able to defend myself" and the Minister does. Again, this is exactly the governance culture we are trying to break, which is not working. The cabinet will act only when a minister himself gets into trouble and says: now that information must be driven out. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u31	I'm sticking to the same point of view. It's not a conscious choice to withhold information. In principle, I do not want to release all information until the Deloitte investigation has produced a factual account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u32	Then we go to Mr Azarkan and then Mr Hijink. Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u33	Moving on to this point. The Minister says: I am committed to sharing the information requested by the Chamber only when it has been verified, secured, etc. by Deloitte. Is that what happened to these pieces?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u34	Excuse me, could you repeat the question? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yes, I will. Did Deloitte verify these pieces? Did Deloitte do something with this, which means that these documents now meet the requirements you wanted to make, I say through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u36	No, these pieces were not returned from Deloitte. These pieces were provided by Minister De Jonge himself. The mails were managed by the Ministry of VWS, because the mailbox is managed by the Ministry of VWS. A period has been maintained to which this information relates. During that period a selection was made that explains those big black pieces, which I also don't like because not all information related to the deal with RGA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u37	But what is left of the reason why that was shared yesterday? Does the Minister maintain that this has been requested by a fellow minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u38	Minister De Jonge thought it wise to share these pieces, because he is here today. At the same time, I was hoping that it could also shed light on the discussion surrounding his involvement in RGA, knowing that it also presents a problem. It is not the fact that Deloitte has verified the facts that I would like to send to your Chamber. That limitation has it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u39	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u40	Does the Minister realize that by sharing it if it is a fellow minister who has played a part in this, she is simply violating Article 68 of the Constitution? This information has been requested before. I see no other reason why this has been refused, whether it has been requested throughout the Chamber or by an individual MP. The Minister is actually doing something very strange here under state law. Mr Klaver has already asked: has this been discussed in the Council of Ministers? Because then the question is: what is the reason why it was stopped until the fellow minister asked for it? Then what's the reason to keep it until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u41	Nothing's been stopped. I have been asked twice to provide a factual account of the deal with RGA and the involvement of Minister De Jonge in that. I've said twice that I can't deliver it, not because I don't want it, but because I can't. What you got yesterday is a selection from his apps and mails. That is different from a fact-finding account such as Deloitte is currently presenting. I can't give you the facts. I also told you that I thought it was unwise to share underlying e-mails and apps and the like. Under pressure from the circumstances, this has happened now, partly at the request of Minister De Jonge. If I thought that was very unwise myself, I wouldn't have done it. I hope that gives some light in the whole situation. But it's not the same as a story of fact; I'd like to insist on that. So I haven't given you anything new that I've already refused. It's not a fact story. They're underlying e-mails and apps. It's a selection by Mr. De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u42	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u43	Whether it is a fact story or a selection of information: it is essential information that contributes to understanding this debate. That information can therefore help the Court to carry out its audit task. That's crucial. Don't let it be a word game. We also experienced this in the surcharge scandal when it was said: you asked for a report and there was a memo. Whatever we call it, this is crucial information. At the time when the Chamber asks for it, it is not provided, but because a fellow minister asks for it, we get it a day before the debate. Like Mr Klaver, I find that really unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u44	Again, it's something else than was asked. A fact-finding report was requested. I don't have that fact story, because it's not finished yet. Deloitte's working on it. A factual account for me as a result of the Deloitte investigation is verified information, making full and complete use of all sources. That's different from what was sent with the letter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u45	Then we go first to Mr Hijink, then to Mr Van der Staaij and then to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u46	I think we are now in the bizarre situation where Minister Hugo de Jonge is rewriting state law on his own. He has invited himself to this debate, and he himself has so evidently now, because that is what the Minister says, made a selection from the documents that the Chamber received yesterday. Pieces of what the Chamber has asked for before, but which we have not received, we have now been given because Minister De Jonge has insisted on it. The Minister now says that it is just a selection, a selection of documents, so you can assume that they are in the interest of Minister Hugo de Jonge. They therefore do not provide transparency and insight into what has actually happened. They are purely in the defense of the Minister. I would like to ask Minister Helder how it can be that we are in this bizarre situation that we have not received information that we should have had for a long time and that documents that apparently were there are now being sent to the Chamber on request and by order of Minister De Jonge. It just can't happen like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u47	About the period and the selection. We have kept the same selection as in the Deloitte study in terms of time. Inside, all the apps and all the e-mails were produced. Inside, Minister De Jonge indicated what was and was not relevant to RGA. If you are asking me now whether I am sure that all the information about the RGA deal and Mr De Jonge's interference has been shared with the Chamber, I cannot say that, of course, because I do not have all the information. That information, that test, must come from the Deloitte investigation. That's why I thought it was rather unwise to send that to you. It is now included in the letter on request, in the hope that it will also open up matters about the role of Minister De Jonge in the RGA. But it's not complete. Information can always be added later. I just don't know right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u48	Nor is it about the precise selection of pieces. It is about the fact that we seem to be dependent on the position, the possibly shaky position, of this minister for obtaining documents. If the Chamber asks, "Can we get this information?', Nothing's gonna happen. Only when it is in the interest of the Minister because his position is at stake can documents be sent to the Chamber. This was not on the initiative of this minister, but on the initiative of the former Minister of the United States of America. I'm not a state judge. I wonder what Mr Van der Staaij is going to say about this. But this doesn't make any sense at all. I would like to ask the Minister the following. How could it agree to the request of Minister Hugo de Jonge to be present today in this debate? How could she agree to the request to send the part of the documents that he apparently considered necessary to send to the Chamber, when she herself says that it does not give a full picture of the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u49	Of course, it's a unique thing that happens. Even though this is my first debate, I understand that. I passed it on because I think it is important for Minister De Jonge to be able to explain himself. That's what he wants. This will allow him to share even more information with you. I still have one goal. That is also my role and task in this whole. That is that we can complete an orderly investigation of Deloitte so that we actually know what happened. That's what I have to defend. The aim is also that we can do this on the basis of a complete and reliable picture and that that is a fact story, so that we have an image of the deals. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u51	Here's what I'm gonna find out. We in the House of Representatives have often asked for more details, a timeline and a factual account of how it went. We didn't get that information completely. Now that the Minister for Housing feels that he is in a tight spot, we can suddenly have some of the documents. Minister Helder says that it is very unfortunate that we do not have the whole truth, but that we only have the Minister's truth on paper. That is not the way in which, as a cabinet, you take seriously the constitutional role and responsibility of the House of Representatives and our right to information? That information should have been there by now. Now, therefore, we have a package of paper, which is quite clear that the Minister has decided that this is the right time to send it to the Chamber, as if it were on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u52	I keep coming back to the same answer. I have a responsibility to complete this Deloitte research properly. We need time to do that. That's what I'd rather have today to share all those facts with each other. At the same time, I also received a request from Minister De Jonge to share information with the Chamber by means of his letter. I went along with that. When he asked me to, and because it is in your interest to share that information, I thought it would be a good idea so that we could talk about it. I also notice in the debate today that we are messing with parts of the information. In addition, we run the chance of getting together to get an idea of exactly what happened back then, when we don't have the full information. Nevertheless, I did indeed lead the letter to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr Van der Staaij, SGP, then Mrs Kuik, Mr Dassen and Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u54	I understand, however, that it is said: "Minister, why are you initially holding the line? Wait for the full investigation." I understand that there are wide-ranging questions here that it will be done if a fellow minister who is a former VWS minister requests it. I can see why that raises a lot of questions here. There is, of course, something to say for the approach taken by the Minister first, namely: wait a moment. There is also something for saying that to the Chamber as well as to a former minister. Isn't this an example of how easy it is to have this kind of discussion when, as a sitting minister and as a former minister, you start to shape the process with the Chamber? Is it not an illustration of the vulnerability of this to go into traffic with the Chamber with a sitting minister plus a former minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u55	I can only say that this indeed illustrates that this is vulnerable. Nevertheless, we have done it and we are here together today, to explain my role as minister responsible for this investigation and Minister De Jonge to explain his own role in this entire deal with RGA. I hope that the Chamber will take note of all the information that we are sharing here today that you are at least well informed today about our motives, because I really want that to be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u56	The minister says it's a unique thing now. I have already given the opinion of the SGP Group on this, namely that we are not happy with the fact that a former minister is also taking responsibility for traffic with the Chamber. But is it really a unique thing or can it also be so in the case of repeated incidents? There can also be another matter at a later date: there is also a former minister who wants to speak on this again. So where do we go from here? Is this minister also responsible for and accountable for everything that the minister has done? Or is that going to be a kind of shared responsibility from now on and do we just have to wait and see how that works out exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u57	As far as I am concerned, this is a unique and special situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u58	Clear. Then I'll go to Mrs. Chicken, PvdA, and then to Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u59	We started a semantic discussion about what "involvement" means. Minister Helder throws a semantic discussion about what "a fact story" means in that request. I have been working with a number of colleagues since May last year to get the facts straight. We then got a factual account of the involvement of the VWS ministry and this minister in the context of this mouth cover deal. That turned out to be incomplete, as we now know on the basis of the Wob pieces. We asked repeatedly to give us that information. We've done that twice. None of that was possible. Now we thought: we were given it in the run-up to the debate. But it's not. That is because Minister De Jonge took the flight forward and said: send it anyway, because I need it to defend myself. That's not even a selection made by Minister Helder. No, the selection was made on the recommendation of Minister De Jonge. Do you understand that this is not conducive to the confidence that we have in an open and honest approach, including from the minister who is before us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u60	Let's get back to the selection. The selection is the period it deals with. So there's no light in there. Inside, we have asked Minister De Jonge that is normal to designate those passages that are actually about the RGA deal, because in the apps and mail traffic there are of course other passages or other information. I know the Court's request for a full account of the facts. That is precisely why one of my predecessors, Minister Van Ark, agreed with you as a Chamber in June last year to carry out an extensive investigation with Deloitte. There's a lot of research questions in there. That's a complex investigation. That investigation is coming to an end. I myself find that very regrettable, but only after that investigation has been completed do we actually have forensic research and only then will we really have the facts in our hands. Information could be added every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u61	Even now, it's going to cover up and it's going to twist again. In June, we asked for a factual account based on the contacts that had been there. We've had some of those contacts. It mentions the political assistant and mentions a number of other people, but it is not as complete as we saw last week in the app traffic that has appeared. That app traffic has long been widely known, including by this minister. However, it has been repeatedly decided not to share this with the Chamber, when we asked for it and when there was an active obligation to provide information. Now the Minister says: I did not want to, but I did so under pressure from Minister De Jonge. Then I sincerely ask: does she understand that that is not possible, that that is not right and that this is really a very strange thing to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u62	Again, I value completeness and care. That is exactly why we agreed with this Chamber that an investigation by Deloitte is taking place. In that research and with the research technique, that information comes up in a way that really gives us a story of fact. All other information is part information. You are, of course, right: I cannot give that story of fact. That's why I didn't send it because I don't have it. What you have for you as an appendix to the letter is not a fact story, but a selection from that period of the apps and mails of Minister De Jonge to support his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u64	I understand the Minister wants to be careful. But by making a semantic discussion of "what is a fact story and what isn't?', By responding to the pressure exerted by Minister De Jonge, and by sharing part of the app traffic, she is careless and nourishes the main question that lies on the table today, namely whether this cabinet is capable of having an integrity and confidence-building policy. I don't see it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u65	I repeat that I am genuinely committed to this, and that is also my role and responsibility to be able to conclude the Deloitte study in an orderly and effective manner. From that we are going to get a factual account of what we really need to do, because then we can say it, when that investigation is completed. Because that's the question to Deloitte: have you really collected all the information that is relevant, have you connected that information, not only in a timeline, but also in order, correct that information, have you gone back to the source, have you verified that that information is what it is? Then we can really say what we have. What you got in the letter is app traffic and e-mails in which you can read yourself. We thought it would be a good idea to do so, as Minister De Jonge's involvement in achieving that deal has been. But that is not what I would like to say once again, specifically, about the research that I want to produce with Deloitte. That is why I was and still am very reluctant to do so. But it is true: yesterday was with the letter that information. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr Dassen, then Mrs Agema, Mrs Van Esch, Mr Klaver and Mr Azarkan. I would like to ask Members not to ask too many of the same questions, because then we will get a lot of repetition. I'm hearing some reruns now. I call Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u67	It is an essential point that we are discussing here. A year ago I entered the Chamber and there was a lot of talk about the Ruttedoctrine: incomplete and incorrect information of the Chamber. That's actually what's happening here. We have talked a lot about Article 68 over the past year. Now the Minister says very nicely: I do not want to give this information to the Chamber. But I think that at the moment when the Chamber asks, the Minister should simply give that information. Is the Minister aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u68	Then I would like to know from Mr Dassen exactly what information he means. And that's not a semantic discussion. I really don't mean it silly. What information do you mean? If you say "a fact story"...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u69	The information we received yesterday is information that has been known to the Minister for some time now, I understand. That's the information she didn't want to give to the Chamber, even though the Chamber asked for it. Yesterday, Minister De Jonge reported to the Minister: release this information. This information shall then be released. But as a chamber, we are entitled to that information if we ask for it. We've asked for it a long time ago. You are constantly hiding under the heading of "an Deloitte investigation is under way." It is fine that Deloitte research is in progress, but it has to be given when we ask for information. And that's not being done here right now. That's a big problem. I have the impression that the Minister also does not understand that the Chamber has the right to information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u70	This Minister understands that, despite being very short in politics, I am very well. The Deloitte study contains 5.5 million documents. That's a lot. Deloitte has the task not only to weigh and verify those documents, but also to go back to the source and to verify all the people mentioned therein and to inform them that that information is being used in that investigation. Interviews are being conducted and the like. I think you have heard all of this in the technical briefing on Tuesday. It is not that I can send you 5.5 million documents at the press of a button, and that will help you in your right to information. Those 5.5 million documents will help you if, through Deloitte's research, we create a good timeline that has been verified, complete and well-checked. Then I can share that with you. That's the fact story we're talking about. That's different from a very large collection of separate documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr Dassen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u72	The information that has now been shared, we already have a lot. I would ask the Minister why this information has now been released. You just indicated that you didn't really want to do that, because the whole investigation should have been awaited. Then why did that happen now and not before?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u73	Minister De Jonge has thought he would like to inform you about the progress of the deal with RGA. He simply cannot inform your Chamber about this himself. He does that through me. He is also present to give an explanation and answer questions. Otherwise, I wouldn't have passed on his letter. In addition, apps and e-mails have been provided to support this and to inform you as best as possible about the things we are going to discuss next. In doing so, I sincerely try to comply with the obligation to provide information. It is indeed his request to be here. It is his selection, insofar as he has, of course, said about the selection what is relevant and not relevant. This is also very different from the facts that Deloitte is going to produce.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr President, on a point of order. This is where political accidents are about to happen, and I don't want to. You rightly call on the House to ask the same questions all the time, but that is because we also get the same answer every time. In my view, the Minister has no knowledge of the Policy Line's active disclosure notes. In any case, she does not speak at all in line with this note from the cabinet itself. My specific proposal is to suspend for a while. Then the Minister can take a moment to take that back, so that the answer is tightened. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned... at least I'll keep asking this question until the right answer comes. I don't think we should want that with each other. So my proposal is to suspend for a while. Then the Minister will have time to get her answers in order and to take note of this line of policy, so that she can tell the Chamber that the Chamber is really right in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u75	Let me look at my fellow Members and see if they support Mr Klaver's proposal to suspend for a very short time. I'd say 15 minutes. Is everyone there... I see there are no people against it, so that means your proposal is being supported. Then I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes. That means that we will continue at 4.05 p.m. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u76	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the mouth cover deal. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr President, thank you and also thank you for the suspension. First of all, I apologise to the Members of Parliament, because I understand very well that this is an important point. And I also find it truly annoying that you feel that I am not informing you properly. That is really important to me. Just a few facts about the things that have just been said. The Active Disclosure Policy is about the disclosure of decision notes. I know what decision notes are, because I've had a few thousand past the past two months. I don't think that's what this is about today. It concerns your request for all information that should be provided to the Chamber around the RGA deal and Minister De Jonge's interference. By the way, I think that information comes to the Chamber in two ways. You ask me, or the Minister himself offers. In the case of the question about the facts of the RGA deal, one of my predecessors, Minister Van Ark, agreed with you to do so in the form of an investigation. I can get information from you in all kinds of ways, by letter, or I can send all kinds of documents, but in this case the decision has been made to conduct an investigation. This research involves 5.5 million documents. That is a very complicated mess; I will not repeat it all. We also had a technical briefing on this this week. I will stick to my point of view, however, and I hope that the Chamber will really understand that, and that is not the blocking of Article 68 of the Treaty that, if we want to know what really happened at the time, we need to put together a good account of the facts. It would be a bit of a strange situation if, while that investigation is going on, I shared that information in the form of documents with you as a chamber part, because then it is going to be dealt with here in the Chamber, through a debate like this, while at the same time the investigation is going on. My responsibility is to provide you with a complete investigation, a complete account of the facts. Again, I am very sorry, also on behalf of my predecessors, that this is taking so long, but it is also very complex and very large. As long as there is no such story, it is difficult to debate its content. In my view, therefore, I do not want to comply with Article 68 of the Rules of Procedure and I do not wish to refuse to do so, but I am concerned about sharing information from parts of it and the effect it has on the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u78	Let me take a look, because we had a sequence before we took a break. That was Mrs Agema, Mrs Van Esch, Mr Klaver and Mr Azarkan. I think it would be a good idea to maintain that order. Yeah? Then I shall first give the floor to Mrs Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u79	Actually, I don't think that's a good idea, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to suggest something else. I understand you're still using the corona protocol when it comes to the interruptions. But I thought the corona protocol had been lifted and we just went back to the old normal. In that case, a Member of Parliament can simply go to the interrupting microphone at the moment he needs it. Then there could be three members here, if necessary, with three more behind it. If this is Mr. Klaver's point and if Mr. Azarkan wants something with it, then they go first and then I just wait until I see my chance again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u80	In itself, I think it's a pretty orderly thing to do. But we do not have the protocol anymore. It is very kind of you to say that other Members may lead the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u81	I would also suggest that we stop maintaining that protocol. Let's just go back to the old normal, that you report to the interrupting microphone at the moment you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u82	I think we just did. I'm really considering who's on it, so I don't think we really have a problem. But let's see how this goes. I think we have an important debate now. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u83	It is indeed an important debate and also a fairly fundamental debate. The Minister says that the document I was talking about, about the disclosure of documents, is only about decision-making papers. That's not right. On page 21, in Chapter 4, Disclosure information and documents at the request of the Chamber, it says: "In addition to the new form of active disclosure of the underlying decision notes to Chambers, there is also, of course, the possibility of disclosure of additional information," and now "at the request of the Chamber." My point is this. I'm afraid we really can't go on if the Minister doesn't admit it. That is a point of principle. We've been asking for information. He didn't want to give it to the minister for her magical reasons. Then comes Minister De Jonge. He says, "I'd like some of that information to go out now." You'll say, "I'll do that." This is, in principle, incorrect, because it is not for directors to decide which information is or is not shared. It's up to the room. If you refuse to give us information first, with your arguments, which I would like to go along with, but then Hugo de Jonge, the Minister, in this case for Wonen, says he wants to give information because he has to be able to defend himself, then you are going to fail. I urge you to admit that, and then we will be done with this part of the debate and we can move on. If you don't admit it, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u84	I admit immediately that this is a very unusual situation. Absolutely. Of course, Minister De Jonge has the opportunity, as I do, to actively bring information to you. You attach it to the refusal to provide the underlying documents, to the information, to the facts. I don't have that fact story. I can make you an offer. If you insist on receiving that underlying documentation from Deloitte, then I really don't want to lie down for that. I'd like to give you the following. One: it's a lot of documents. It's not like I can give it to you at the push of a button. Secondly, I am very concerned about the progress of the investigation, whether the investigation can continue at all and whether we will then find out exactly how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u85	No one's asking for this. No one is asking for 5.5 million documents now. I can't. In fact, if Deloitte needs longer for the investigation, I do not like it, but that is the case. I am concerned about the point that this Minister must acknowledge how this Chamber works. You cannot deny us information one week and then do so. The information we have now received is the information we had requested in a timeline. Exactly this. We don't have everything. We knew that before. But we wanted this information. You refused. Then Minister De Jonge says: I want to share this, because I must be able to defend myself. And then you will. Then you have a problem with this room. So this is not something of a political colour. This is how the Chamber's information law works. If we ask for something, we are entitled to it. If you wish to depart from that, you will have to discuss it in the Council of Ministers. There is also a grey area. If we do not work out in consultation with each other, you must say in the Council of Ministers: I am not going to give this information. You didn't. Then Minister De Jonge says: boys, I'm in trouble, I'm giving you this information. This is exactly what it was about in the 1 April debate last year. This is the core of governance culture. Information is only given when ministers are in trouble. I want you to acknowledge that you made a mistake here. As far as I am concerned, that is what I immediately say. Then let's call it quits. Happens. It is your first debate, as you yourself said. Ready. But you will have to acknowledge that you have made a mistake here in the way you treat the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u86	I am certainly prepared to acknowledge that it is a very strange situation and that I may not be able to explain it properly. I acknowledge to Mr Klaver that the way things are going now does not feel right. I'll acknowledge that immediately. It has never been my intention to remember the information you need or to give you now suddenly. This has been done at the request of Minister De Jonge, who wishes to bring forward this information. I indicated in the first instance that I thought that was unwise, because I have the research to defend. That's what I really need. But I want to acknowledge right away that this may not be the way we would like to start with you, at least. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u88	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u89	The Minister also said: excuse for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u90	Yeah, excuse me for that. I said it was a little late in the mike. I mean it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u91	I have no doubts about the Minister's intention. That's not why I'm making such a big deal of this. This is about how the Chamber is informed. You say it's a mess. I really want to be exactly in this. Last year, after the 1 April debate, I promised that I would never let this happen again. We should all find that here. We'll never let it happen again that the cabinet sends the Chamber with a rug in the reeds. That's what happened here. That's why I'm attached to it. I appreciate you saying, "Excuse me, this is a mess." But it shouldn't have been like this. It wasn't just messy. It wasn't just: tricky, difficult, it doesn't look pretty. It's not supposed to be like that. This was wrong. If you say so, it's done. Really, then we'll be done and then we'll continue the debate. But that's what you have to admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'm so sorry. I wanted to apologize, because I don't think it deserves the beauty prize either. I think we should give Minister De Jonge a chance to explain why he thought it was important to send this letter at this time in time. It is not and never is my intention not to inform the Chamber wrongly. You can really hold me to that, too. The doubt existed, and continues to exist, about releasing parts of the information in relation to the complete factual account. I apologize for the way things are going. I do not yet understand that I think this is going to be a very bad thing, but I admit that the appearance is not good in the light of the debate on the openness of the cabinet. I'll admit that immediately. On the contrary, I would like to contribute to this, because I think that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u93	In addition to this, I am going to try to explain why I think things are going wrong here. The minister had a clear line. We spent an hour with 18 people with Deloitte. Deloitte gave a procedural answer to every question we asked specifically on this issue. That was Tuesday, for an hour. Every Member of Parliament who was there wanted to know more so that we could have this debate. It is a respectable line that the Minister says: I do not want to do so until this has been verified by Deloitte in conjunction with etc. We can now see that there has been a deviation from that. The Minister did not pursue her sensible line, namely to share it only when it was examined and verified in the context. That does require an explanation, because it does not give the Chamber something which is sent at the last minute at the request of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u94	I think Mr Azarkan's question is the same as Mr Jesse's. The question is, did things go wrong? Didn't it go well? It didn't work out well; I totally agree with you. I'm sorry about that. I don't want to. I want good, orderly information to the Chamber. Minister De Jonge has sent me a letter requesting that the letter be forwarded to the Chamber, because this way he has no access to the Chamber and to this debate. It's really a unique fact that he's here. With the apps, too, I've allowed that. He will explain himself later on why he thinks that is important. It's about him, too. I admit immediately, I apologize for that, that this isn't how it's supposed to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u95	Thank you. I would like to ask the Members of Parliament whether this is enough on this subject, otherwise I think we will be stuck on the same subject. The Minister has given her an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u96	I think it's good at this point. It is also clear that the Minister says so. But one thing remains on my mind, namely how we should proceed with the rest of the debate. We are going to have a debate with Minister De Jonge. That's about his role, his involvement in that deal. We will then make our analysis on the basis of documents selected by the Minister himself and which have also been sent to the Chamber on his own initiative. This is still separate from whether it was right or wrong. I think the Minister just said that this was wrong. But the difficulty for the rest of this debate remains, of course, that we are going to rely on the information provided by Minister De Jonge, while Minister Helder is saying that it is extremely unfortunate to be able to speak about this deal without the full picture. What is the Minister's idea now? Without that complete picture, can we really judge the involvement of Minister De Jonge in this deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u97	Just the fact that Minister De Jonge is here and wants to answer your questions later may be the additional information that is of interest to you. So I think it makes sense, because it's about his specific interference with the conclusion of the deal with RGA. He'll be able to explain that himself later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u98	Yes, he will, but if the information that is on the table has been selected by the direct object, it is very awkward and perhaps even inconvenient for the Chamber to enter into the debate on the basis of an equal information position with the Minister. You know what I mean? It will be very complicated for us to debate if we do not know whether we have the complete truth in view, because the Minister has determined what this truth is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u99	With regard to the selection of the apps and mails that have been sent along, it is true that it concerns the entire period. It's all the mails that were in VWS' possession, because VWS managed the mailbox. To this extent you have as complete a set as possible. But the selection which information did and did not refer to the deal with RGA was indeed made by Minister De Jonge. That's right. As a result, I do not think that the debate has any value, but that is something you should discuss with my colleague, Minister De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u100	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u101	I am not suggesting that the debate has no value either. I merely say that we cannot be in an equal position with the Minister when he determines what information is on the table, when he determines which parts of the conversations and documents are available and when he is the one who decides what we are talking about. The Minister himself states that at the moment the Chamber does not have the full picture, because that must be demonstrated by the investigation. This means that we will soon have to judge what Minister De Jonge has done on the basis of information he himself has chosen. I don't think that's a good way to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u102	I can only say that it is true that not all the information involved in Deloitte's investigation has now been sent to the Chamber. That's right. That's because that information is stuck in the investigation. Again, it is 5.5 million documents, on the basis of which Deloitte compiles the facts. This is done by means of a forensic method, whereby they verify everything and return to the source. You've heard all that about the week. This information is not all on the table, but you will speak to the Minister who can explain it. There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u103	It is not to be mugged, but I felt, in response to Mr Klaver's speech and the Minister's reaction, that we were almost getting together, but not quite yet. Does the Minister recognise the pain that is now the image of a minister's predecessor indicating whether certain information should be allowed to enter the Chamber, while the argument should be that constitutional information should be respected vis-à-vis Parliament? You said no at first, then it was partly no and after the wish of an old executive, the answer is that it is possible. I think that's where the constitutional pain is, so we can't find each other. Wasn't it also the reality that it was also a persistent wish in a large part of the Chamber to get it? The fact was added that the former executive on this file also liked it. And then it finally happened. It is therefore not only at the request of a former executive, but also given the constitutional duty of information to the Chamber and the wish expressed by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u104	I think it's even more complicated, because Minister De Jonge is not technically my predecessor. Technically, he wasn't the minister who was in charge of purchasing mouth masks. So it's even more complicated. I think we've come together. I said that the way it happened does not deserve the beauty prize. But I believe Minister De Jonge has the right to provide the Chamber with information. It's not like I'm linking that directly to the information question that Minister De Jonge has gotten from me, which is: come up with that whole story of exactly what's going on with that deal. That's another information question. That's a complete one. I'm not gonna explain again what I'm technically stuck in. I would sincerely like to give you that information today. Then we wouldn't be standing here, or we'd be standing here in a different way, because then we could talk about the content. I would like to, because I would also like to see how that went with Sywert van Lienden at the time. But I can't get there yet, because I still have to wait for the investigation to be completed. So I think we're talking about two things next to each other. The question is, how are we going to connect them? I think I just said that and we have come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u105	Agreed. But does the Minister agree with me that the desire of a former executive to share things with the Chamber should not outweigh the constitutional duty of information to parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u106	It is, in my opinion, a current ruler in another role who himself has indicated that he has also written in a letter that questions have been raised about his person at the moment which he would like to refute. That's why he sent me that letter. I passed that letter. That's where the information comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u107	Deloitte's research was, of course, initiated by Mrs Helder's predecessor in office, Mrs Van Ark. It turns out that between all the information that is already on the table, because of the Wob requests and what Minister De Jonge has sent to Minister Helder, there is still a huge gap. Apparently, there are still pieces between the pieces that we have now and the pieces that Deloitte has. Now, of course, it is not the case that an organisation's investigation would render Article 68 of the Constitution ineffective. That would be very strange. So if we, as the House of Representatives of the States-General, ask what is left of the pieces that we do not have and which have gone to Deloitte, which do apply to this case, then we should simply get them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u108	But that's exactly where the pain is. I'll try to explain it again. The original selection that was transferred concerns 5.5 million documents. It has been over for some time now, but you have heard that from Deloitte before data transfer could be carried out. A selection is made by Deloitte of these 5.5 million documents. That's the selection they're doing right now. You can ask me: give me those 5.5 million documents or part of them. But then you must realise that that may mean that Deloitte says: Minister Helder, I cannot keep the agreement that I am going to deliver this investigation, because it concerns documents that are currently being investigated. If these documents come to the Chamber for information, we will undoubtedly debate them and then two things will run side by side: the investigation that you as a Chamber yourself have agreed to and the provision of information under Article 68, on the basis of which you are entitled to the information you requested. You are entitled to that information; I am not taking it away from you at all. But I have the technical problem that these two are going to get in the way of each other. That's a real dilemma. It is not so easy to find a forensic accountant, to have work done and to have this investigation completed. We then run the chance that we will not be able to complete the investigation. I wouldn't want that. There's a chance, if that's what you're asking me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u109	I just think it's a really weird story. Anyway, let's not freak out about this, because that doesn't end up helping anyone. I believe that the whole of the Netherlands is waiting for Hugo de Jonge's roast. But I still have a question for the Minister. On this argument of 'the pieces are not yet complete' and there are 5.5 million pieces at Deloitte: can it say with certainty that the 5.5 million pieces give a complete picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u110	Deloitte is commissioned to provide the most complete factual account possible. They not only involve the documents and data carriers that VWS has provided, but also other departments are asked out. They have opened a window so that anyone with information can report there. They use the book, which you now take here, with excellent investigative journalism, which also brings out sources. They use everything. They have assured me that they will deliver this in the first week of July. I'm on top of that. I shall inform you immediately as soon as it is found that it has been found that it has been found that it has not been possible to do so. But I'm on top of it now to make sure that investigation is completed. In addition, if it is okay, you should hear the disclaimer... Deloitte explain for themselves what sources they have used. That's their responsibility. At some point they will have to say: so far and no further, speak now or forever be silent, this is what we are doing, with this information we have built up the facts and here you have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u112	I don't think it's a clear answer at all. I would ask the Minister to confirm that the 5.5 million documents complete the picture. I understand from the answers this morning from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the image, as far as can be seen, is complete. If this is voluntary, it does not guarantee that the 5.5 million documents contain all the e-mails from Minister De Jonge. Minister De Jonge indicated this morning that he no longer wanted to receive documents via e-mail. That was in May, but maybe it played before. Maybe the use of private mail already played during the deal. Again, my question to the Minister is: is she sure that those 5.5 million documents are the complete story? Is she sure about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u113	The contract with Deloitte states that they are doing their utmost. They're getting all the information they need professionally. I don't know the 5.5 million documents. I can't do that investigation either. I cannot give you the guarantee today, but it is in the mission to Deloitte that they deliver the facts report as complete as they can find. When someone in that investigation does not cooperate or does not provide anything, they will certainly mention it. I'm sure of it. You will soon be able to ascertain exactly what that fact story is based on and that everything in it is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u115	There's been an awful lot of facts. We must not draw any conclusions from this, because a further study will be carried out by Deloitte. The Minister here confirms that we are not sure that's the complete story. But what are we all doing? When are we gonna know it's all been enough? When will we know for sure that 5.5 million pieces is everything? Seriously, what are we all doing if we're not allowed to jump to conclusions now and only then? In the meantime, despite Article 68 of the Constitution, we are not getting these documents. And then we have to believe that it's all been as complete as possible. What are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u116	I think Mrs Agema is suggesting it a little too simple. I am not saying that it is not a relevant, as complete as possible set that Deloitte is looking into on the basis of which they claim to be able to establish the facts. They do this because they connect all the facts with each other, so they always come up with new information questions. They also ask these questions and then they get answers to them. If we instruct Deloitte to do so, we can assume that, with their professional standards, they will also produce a sufficient amount of good research in the contract "Justin'. But I can't guarantee that in 15 years' time someone will come up with something that isn't in the investigation, because what I don't know, I don't know. The same applies to Deloitte. But they do their utmost professionally to get all the available information in the investigation. You can count on it. It's a renowned company in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u117	I would like to give Mrs Bikker an opportunity to interrupt and Mr Azarkan a brief question. Then I suggest that the Minister continue with her speech. I will not allow any more interruptions so that the Minister can finish her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u118	In the first period, I have expressed my concerns about the state-law complexity that we are experiencing here. Honestly, I see it underlining. I say the following in order to make it clear, precisely with regard to all the information that the Minister intends to provide and will provide. I understand that, as soon as that Deloitte report is available, we will have a debate on the whole mouth cap deal. The Minister also admits that, to the extent that it is in her power, I assume that this also means the provision of data and as soon as possible and as generously as possible... No, she's admitting that's just gonna happen. Then we can actually have that debate, because that point is getting through every time. That makes it so complicated, because we all want to know exactly how it went. I have the impression that the debate that we are now able to have here is the part that looks at the contacts that the former VWS Minister has had. I'd like a confirmation on that, too, because that's part two. Article 68 of the Constitution is also very sweet to me. Information has been provided by this Minister at the request of Minister De Jonge, but also to meet the information question that lives here in the Chamber. Did I get it that well? For me, it continues to puzzle how the information has been handled. Perhaps some colleagues will come to that understanding more quickly, but I would like to ask the Minister if I have weighed it so well. Or does she see another aspect in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u119	No, I think Mrs Bikker sums it up very well. I think that's where we are now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u120	That's clear. Finally, I would like to give Mr Azarkan the opportunity to put one question. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u121	There's one more thing that concerns me. The minister had the line that she didn't think it was wise to share this. That's right. My question is: why did the Minister do something which, in her opinion, is unwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u122	I think I have already answered this question a few times, including in the concession towards Mr. Jesse. I have shared this information because Minister De Jonge has sent me this letter, with the argument he will explain himself later, asking for his story to be done here today. To illustrate this, these apps and e-mails have been provided. I think I have just said, and admitted, and apologized, that that is not a good way to proceed. He will explain in a moment why he himself felt that this was important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u123	The Minister is now continuing her speech. It's "Mr. Clover," by the way. I'm just saying. By the way, I like the sound of "Mr. Jesse," but it's "Mr. Clover."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u124	Apologies. If you want me to say "Mr. Jesse," I'll keep it up. Mr. Chairman. A lot of things have actually been said. I'm gonna do my best to get through the folders and skip any doubles. First of all, a number of questions have been asked about the content of the investigation. I answer the questions of the SGP, JA21, Volt, the Christian Union and D66. They were all about the reasons to make a deal with Van Lienden despite the internal criticism. I can be very brief in the answer, because these are precisely the questions that the investigation is about. I therefore refer you to the current investigation. And yes, we'll take all these questions with us. I will have this question explicitly taken with me. Then there's the state of the investigation. I have already said a few things about this. Perhaps it would be a good idea to explain the possibilities I see for speeding up Deloitte research. I'm gonna say again that I'm on top of it. I myself have been in contact with the research office several times, and I have insisted that we produce that first partial report for the summer. We are talking about three reports. The research office indicates that it really understands this urgency and that it is making maximum efforts to deliver it before the coming summer recess. Then there will be a complete story of the facts. We just said that in detail. In addition, I give the disclaimer that the research agency tells me that it will have real trouble getting it ready for the summer. Luckily, Mr. Klaver just said something about that. I said that I insist that it is and that we can then conclude it, because it is not desirable for it to last any longer. If I have more information on this, which may be going the other way, I will inform you without delay, as I have just said, with the reasons. Mrs Bikker asked if I can assure you that the relevant private e-mails are involved in Deloitte's investigation. That's what the investigating firm stated during the technical briefing. They reconstruct all correspondence from the different transactions. They ask a data holder, if they use different platforms, to have as much independent and full access to that correspondence as possible. They do that to make sure that reconstruction is as complete as possible. I would also like to respond to a question from Mrs Agema from earlier. They have also indicated that they are making maximum efforts to complete the image. So the answer is yes, as far as they can, of course. Also a question from Mrs Bikker: is there any cooperation from the Ministry on Deloitte's information requests? This was also discussed during the technical briefing. They're doing everything they can to make it quick. Together with the research office, VWS has undergone a careful process, in which both the GDPR and the independence of the research office are guaranteed. VWS also supports the research firm in collecting data from other departments, but also from suppliers selected by the research firm. You can expect me not only to urge my own department but also other departments to provide that data if that has not yet happened. Mrs Bikker and Mrs Tielen asked about the timetable of Deloitte research. The timeline remains unmistakable. How do I see that? And why was it postponed five times? What am I gonna do about it? Actually, I just answered that. I'll be on top of that and I'll make sure that happens. Then there is Mrs Paulusma's question. She is curious how different this deal is compared to the other two big deals. Unfortunately, I cannot answer that until the first study has been carried out. It is also important to get a complete picture of all the facts in those two other major deals, but it has been agreed that the RGA investigation would take precedence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u125	That brings you to the end of this theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u126	No, sorry, not yet. Mrs Paulusma asked if the results of the 100-plus deals could not come to the Chamber sooner. The Examination Office is not going to produce interim results. They explained this themselves in the technical briefing, where this was discussed extensively. But they will make every effort for the first partial report. But it is also important for the following investigations to be carried out in an independent way. They can't say anything about their planning right now. Then Mrs Paulusma's question is whether I can give an overview of the advantages and disadvantages of sharing earlier. I think they have also been addressed in the reply to the interruptions. Then the last question in this block. That is also a question from Mrs Paulusma, for she asked: what if criminal offences are detected by the investigating office? How is it going to act? It is true that there is a possibility that the Examination Office may encounter information during the investigation which suggests a serious breach of integrity or a criminal offence. This may be related to the scope of the research, but it may also be an accidental finding, a bycatch without relation to the research assignment. This was agreed between VWS and Deloitte in the summer of 2021. Should such a situation occur, it shall be reported to the integrity coordinator of the VWS group. The regular reporting and investigation procedures are then followed. Specifically, following up on the question of criminal offences. Then, of course, it is obvious that a suspicion of a minor offence will be followed differently from that of a serious crime. And, of course, the research office also has independent obligations that follow from legislation and its own professional code. So that's what happens. That was block one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u127	Thank you. Then I shall first give the floor to Mrs Tielen and then to Mrs Paulusma. Mrs. Tielen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u128	The Minister says, "I'm on top of it, and I'm committed to making it quick." I also feel that she means that. I appreciate that, too. I would like to give her a slight encouragement, because I heard her say in one of the previous sentences: in the first week of July. Now it is true that I think the Chamber will be recessing in the second week of July. Deloitte explained in detail in the technical briefing that they are actually only about findings and will not attach any conclusions or interpretations or qualifications to them. As a Chamber, I am sure we need a cabinet response to that investigation and, above all, a debate. It's just worth a sweet thing to me, especially since there are a lot of things still hanging in the air. We've seen it again today to really start the debate before the beginning of the summer recess. So my appeal to the Minister is to see if Deloitte can put a little gear on that, so that we can discuss it sufficiently well with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u129	I have really tried very hard to use that acceleration with Deloitte, but it is really very complex what needs to be completed. I can promise Mrs. Tielen I'll do my best, but I can't promise they'll deliver. Of course, I noticed the inconvenience in the planning myself. In any case, I can assure you that as soon as I have it in, I will send the facts straight to you. At the same time, the explanation of the facts in the form of a cabinet response is, of course, also being prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u130	Thank you. Mrs Paulusma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister say that the investigation is in a hurry, that she shares the ambition with the Chamber to bring it out as soon as possible. Your predecessor said the three 100 million deals were a priority. That also came out in the last letter, dated 18 June: if we are going to publish, these three really are the priority. I asked in the technical briefing why only two of the three deals are being investigated. That is also a question I asked the Minister. I'm still curious about the answer to that. I also wonder if the Minister shares with me that the whole discussion is about this Van Liendendaal. If we don't hear anything about that in the first report, this is going to be such a nevending story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u132	Mrs Paulusma can rest assured that she will, of course, see Van Lienden's deal in the first factual account. The answer to the third is to remain guilty for a while. Before I make any mistakes, I would like to go back to that in the second term if you find that agreement. That listens very closely for a moment, the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u133	Yes. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u134	Then I come to the third topic, folder three: the questions about the letter, the disclosure of information. I believe that I have said a great deal about this in the replies to the interruptions, so I shall leave it at that. I have nothing to add, let me put it this way. Then four: the role of the VWS Minister when it comes to RGA deal........................................................................................................................................................................... That is a question from Mrs Paulusma. I can only agree with the circumstances of the day. They were such that we all had one goal, namely that there should be as many mouth caps as possible as soon as possible in order to be able to safely do their job for the care workers. That does not alter the fact that we now need clarity about the facts, the role and why things went the way they did. Then I shall return to Deloitte's research, which I regret to have to wait for and, of course, the second half of the debate. Mrs. Kuik asks if this deal has only come about because of the active interference of the Minister De Jonge. I refer again to the investigation which should show this, and later to the answer given by Minister De Jonge himself. Let's see. Mr Van der Staaij's questions about the openness of the Chamber have, I believe, already been involved in the interruptions. I've already answered that. As far as I'm concerned, that's it. I don't have anything else to add to block four. That has actually been discussed in the interruptions. Then I come to block five: the agreement of RGA. Mr. Van Haga said that officials warned that the deal was unnecessary and asked why it was deleted from the forensic accountant's report and by whom. I refer to the letter of 18 June last year, in which the then Minister for Medical Care and Sport explained how the report was drawn up. The final report was drawn up in accordance with the usual procedures of forensic auditors. There has been further coordination between Grant Thornton and VWS, so that VWS as the client could form an opinion on whether Grant Thornton has fulfilled the research assignment. In doing so, VWS was able to provide suggestions on these draft reports, and asked questions about the actual state of affairs and about the justification of the claim. I believe that you had a debate on this with my predecessor, Mr Van Ark, in June. I can imagine that a number of questions have also been answered. So that's all I want to do now. Mr. Hijink has asked why the ministry has agreed to a deal with an e.g. instead of a foundation. I know it's an annoying answer, I apologize for that, but I'm going to refer to Deloitte's research again. How this time frame was put together and how it hinged are, of course, important questions in that investigation. I can also say that for VWS, of course, care was provided in the Netherlands with sufficient quality mouth masks. The type of legal person did not matter if the party was able to supply the products. But how exactly, and how, this has played a role must, of course, be demonstrated by the facts of Deloitte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u135	I see Mr Van Haga standing at the interrupting microphone. I would like to ask the Minister to conclude this issue. Then he gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr Hijink has also asked why these millions of profits have been accepted. I would like to stress that it is important to get a complete picture of the facts. This has to show why we agreed to the deal from which the millions of profits came. Mr. Dassen asked how 40 million mouth caps were ordered and who ordered them, while the order went against the advice of the LCH. And that is exactly what we would like to find out through that fact story. That's how I got to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u137	I still don't know why that was removed from the report. But what I do know now is that these officials were complaining and giving other kinds of advice. I'd still like to take the minister into the timeline. I have a question about NIHW in Haarlem. That's another company that was trying to deliver masks at the time. That company sent samples to RIVM on April 7th. The conclusion of the RIVM was: fantastic, buy as much of it as possible. On April 10th there was an oral agreement. That was confirmed by e-mail, and also by whatsapp. And then there's the message on April 10th: hey, Sywertje, you're gonna get a call. That'll look nice in those Wob documents. Sywert says, "Yes, I'll be with the Minister tomorrow." Bart's gonna say, cool, we're really gonna be a shift that doesn't match. And then the minister starts pushing on April 12th. He's talking about that pissing out and pissing in. But he'll have an influence on that. And on Easter Day, April 13th, a payment of 1.59 million to NIHW will be made. Or at least it would be done, but that payment fails. They'll say, "Well, no, that's gonna be okay." And on April 15th, the deal with NIHW is off. About in those days, maybe on the same day, the deal with Van Lienden continues, despite RIVM's negative advice about those mouth caps. I would like to ask the Minister: is this a coincidence? And can she guarantee that these two deals really have nothing to do with each other? So has the deal with NIHW stopped on very different grounds, grounds that were totally unrelated to the deal with Sywert van Lienden?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u138	For the facts as they have developed, also in relation to the LCH and the deal with Sywert van Lienden, I refer back to the investigation that is now under way, and the explanation from Minister De Jonge in a moment. Mr Van Haga also asked me why the mouth cover deal was removed from the forensic accountant's report and by whom. That's what happened to the forensic accountant himself. The researchers weighed this themselves and extracted that information from the research report. They have explained this again in the annex, and in the debate you held with Minister Van Ark, she has already explained this in detail. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u139	I find it strange that the Minister has nothing to add to this, because at a time when we apparently needed those mouth caps, there was a company, namely NIHW from Haarlem, that could deliver unlimited super-good mouth caps. On the day that their contract was cancelled, the contract went to Sywert van Lienden, who provided inadequate mouth caps for a ridiculous amount. So the question is whether that had anything to do with each other or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u140	I refer you to the research that Deloitte is doing. That must be the proof of the facts. This will undoubtedly be taken into account again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u141	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u142	Finally, Mr President. I'm not asking for that fact story, because we do have that data now. It's everywhere. It's even in the apps that are now delivered. The question is, was there a relationship between them? Did anyone actively send for that? The officials said: "Yes, the deal with NIHW can continue. The payment will be made. No, sorry, it's tomorrow. Then the PO is done." But at the exact same time someone else pulled the strings. I think it's relevant for this debate to know if there's any knowledge at the ministry that anyone else was pulling those strings, didn't let the deal with NIHW go ahead and the deal with Sywert van Lienden did. I already know what answer I'm gonna get. It's a repeat of moves. Then it is up to the Minister to say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u143	In advance, I apologize for giving the same answer again. This is precisely about the time frame and the following facts that need to be reconstructed in that account. I also refer to the reply given by Minister De Jonge in the near future. He might be able to shed some light on that, too. Then there is Mr Hijink's question. Oh, no, sorry, we were at the end of the block. I was gonna say it again, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u144	Yes. We're going to the Wob now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u145	Yeah, we're going to the next one. We're at block six now, about the Wob. It's not to be annoying, but I have to say technically that the Wob within the Ministry is the responsibility of Minister Kuipers. I shall, of course, answer the questions now. Mrs Kuik asked when I knew about Mr De Jonge's involvement. I refer to my letter of 6 April, in which I inform you of the Minister's request that correspondence be made public for the purposes of the investigation. In addition, I have been informed that my officials have been aware of the Wob request to the Minister of Finance since December 2021. I myself, together with Minister Kuipers, started as Minister on 11 January. We were informed in the initial period that an investigation is under way. That's the Deloitte investigation. We were informed orally that there were several Wob requests. From there, the conclusion was and remains that I would like to await the investigation, to inform the Chamber on the basis of complete information. Again, my aim is that the investigation should be completed in such a way as to provide a reliable factual account. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hijink asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u146	I see three MPs are trying to interrupt. I'm gonna ask the Minister to finish the theme. After that, you will have the opportunity for all three.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u147	...why the minister was suing to delay Wob requests as much as possible. VWS has a modified process for handling Wob requests. Once again, within the Ministry, this is the responsibility of Minister Kuipers. In this process, pieces surrounding the corona crisis are phased out. This means that documents are made public by category and month. This method was introduced in view of the very large number of documents, i.e. almost 2 million, and the large number of Wob requests. There are now nearly 340 Wob requests. It was recently confirmed by the Council of State. The Council of State has indicated that the working methods of VWS can be maintained, as this method is in line with the Wob. Then a question from Mrs Bikker. That's the one-after-last question. Why did the Ministry hold off the Wob procedures and bring out the intel yesterday? That is in line with Mr Hijink's question on the lawsuits. I have just given the answer that there is a modified working method within VWS for the Wob requests. It was introduced in response to the large number of documents. Then the last one. Why has specific information been sought for a long time and has it even been chosen to pay periodic penalty payments? The Omtzigt Group also asked why the government has paid periodic penalty payments and how much until now and whether or not the cabinet has agreed to pay periodic penalty payments, just as it did at the time of the surcharge scandal. VWS has opposed the court's ruling. The aim is to ask the court to convene a substantive hearing, because without that substantive examination, the court ruling, according to VWS, ignores what has been approved by the Board of State's Administrative Judgment Division: the working methods of VWS with regard to the handling of Wob requests. The ruling of the Amsterdam Court does not show that the planning of VWS has been taken into account. Nor did the court take into account the judgment of the Council of State in the assessment of the appeal. No periodic penalty payments were provided for in this opposition procedure. Again, it is impossible for VWS to decide on all corona-related Wob requests in a timely and adequate manner if they have to be treated in the traditional way. It concerns 340 requests that are being dealt with by a 100-jurist club. That's a really big job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u148	Thank you. There are some interruptions. We'll skip Mrs. Chicken for a bit. Mrs Agema and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u149	So there are a lot of pieces. They're on the table. We got it yesterday. We also know that there is a big gap with what went to Deloitte. That would conflict with Article 68 of the Constitution if we did not get those documents now. I was wondering if the Minister could confirm that those Wob requests that have already been granted, which have been the subject of legal proceedings, are at least complete for what those people have requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u150	I'm assuming these Wob requests will be handled in an orderly and complete manner. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u151	What judgments of the judge in relation to the Wob requests that have been made are not being implemented at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u152	I should check that out. I'm sorry. I'm not ready for that. I would like to answer that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u153	There were court cases and before the summer there were judgments. Within about two and a half months, at least on three cases, the Wob-pieces had to be presented. And I just don't think those Wob pieces were discussed. That is why I asked a supplementary question. Has the Cabinet taken a decision that it is okay not to provide those Wob documents to the petitioner and run the risk of paying a periodic penalty payment, even if it has not been paid or claimed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u154	I have to keep the answer to that. What I don't know, I don't know. I have to check with my officials, and I would like to reply to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u155	I didn't ask a lot of questions, but I did ask this one. It seems now, with what has happened, that documents only come out if the minister thinks they can be sent or if someone else gets them in another way and then they still have to come out. We've had this whole block now, and I'm just waiting for the second-term answers. What does the Minister herself think of Article 68 of the Constitution, on which she took the oath herself, a few months ago, that if the Chamber asks for information, you have to implement it, and that you have to implement laws when there are? That includes the Public Administration Act. How does she assess how this was done in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u156	Again, the entire Wob procedure is my colleague's responsibility. I do not want to avoid this question, but it is important to keep saying it. I think all Wob requests are assigned to VWS, but there is a separate procedure because of the huge amount of Wob requests. This approach has been accepted by the Administrative Court of the Council of State. In one of the specific cases, it deals with a Wob request from the Volkskrant. In the meantime, an objection has been raised because the court which approved the appeal did not give any substantive consideration to it, nor did it take notice of it. In any event, he did not give any evidence of that in the judgment of the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State. I therefore believe that this has nothing to do with the implementation of Article 68. Yes, I took the oath on that. That is also very important to me, as I have just said. But here we are talking about a technical working method of VWS. I don't think VWS wants to stop any Wob requests at all. I'll be there from January 10th; then I took the oath. I don't find out. There isn't. But it's an incredible job to handle those 340 Wob requests. This method was already in place before Minister Kuipers and I recommended it. There is, and we support it. Sometimes it scratches with the feeling that I want to admit that you would prefer to give it now, but it also has to be done in order, because there are all names of people in it. People need to be informed and lacquered. We also want to protect the privacy of our officials and of all other people in the GDPR. We just have to do it right. Hence the M.O., just because of the huge amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u157	I have a follow-up question on both points. The first one is about the Wob itself. The Administrative Court Department of the Council of State has agreed to the working methods of the Ministry of VWS, comma, but VWS had to take three decisions within two months. Have those decisions been made? And are they being executed? 'Cause that's the whole verdict. You mentioned only part of the ruling. Two. I have asked you whether you think that Article 68 is being implemented in this case. You have seen that a lot of questions have been asked. From the beginning, no documents came this way. Let me ask you very precisely: when did you take note of the documents sent to the Chamber yesterday? Was that yesterday? Was that two months earlier? When did you know these existed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u158	I have just said that in December, at the official summit, it was known that these documents existed. After taking office, sometime in the first few weeks, Mr Kuipers and I took note of the Deloitte study. The Deloitte research is my responsibility. So, in an in-work session, I got to know that. The same applies to the procedure relating to the Wob requests. That didn't happen right away on day one. Of course, there were a lot of topics we're working on. For Mr Kuipers, that was not least the covid debates. From there, we went to work. So from that moment on, we knew that information existed. Have I read or taken note of that information? No, because I care to hear the whole story through Deloitte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u159	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u160	The latter is very surprising. An investigation from an investigative firm. By the way, just for the people who are listening: that research started in June 2021. At that time, the government wanted the result to be achieved within three weeks before 1 July 2021. Well, Deloitte said, we're not gonna be able to do that. We can understand that now. But then they said September 1st. The Chamber has agreed: well, then take the summer and then the pieces come on September 1st. But what is happening here is that the government says that it does not need to provide any information on the investigation at all; then it is not made public through the Wob and not through parliamentary questions. The Minister himself now says: I had that information; from that information I could have distilled that the Chamber was not exactly fully informed. For what reason did you not write to the Chamber on your own: I have information here that I should actually share with the Chamber in order to really give her a better picture of what happened? Why wasn't the trade-off made to report that to the Chamber, given the answers given earlier on a denial of interference with the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u161	I think Mr. Ommzig is confusing two things after all. The procedure of the Wob requests is separate from the Deloitte investigation and has its own dynamics. During the relevant period there was, among other things, the Wob request of the Volkskrant. Very broad questions were asked: send me everything around the Sywert of Liendendeal. That has not yet been completed, but I believe that in the period April-August I will say it out of my head. That's where the appeal objection lies. You make it appear as if within VWS the information is changed and weighed which information is or is not brought out. There are two routes: one is about Deloitte research, and the other is about the Wob. They're independent of each other. So it could happen that the information via Wob actually comes sooner than Deloitte's story of fact. It could just happen, but it could happen after that. That's separate from each other, according to my information. I know that this Wob procedure is going on. And again, it's my colleague's wallet. I don't know if there's any apps in there from anyone. Of course, I didn't look at that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u162	The Minister continued her speech and referred back to the questions put by Mr Omtzigt in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u163	Yes, I do. Then there were some questions about the iCloud e-mail address, but then the generic questions about private e-mail usage. Mrs. Agema asked: how many more interested parties went e-mailing with private accounts to avoid the Wob? I will explain the general process; Minister De Jonge will return to his e-mail shortly. All e-mails sent to or from an official's business account are always secured in accordance with legal requirements. No distinction is made on the content of the mails. So all mails received and sent under the direction of VWS are secured. Messages to and from a private account are also secured if a business ministry account is involved. Messages originating from VWS accounts will be included in the inventory of all corona-wob documents within the VWS Ministry. The specially designed Programme Directory Publicity is concerned with this. Mr. Hijink has asked a question about the use of private mail. The SP believes this should stop as soon as possible. That wasn't a question, I think it was an assignment. The Behavioural Scheme for the Digital Work Environment Empire and the Code of Integrity Empire describe how officials should handle their information and business resources. The Code of Conduct Rijk states that civil servants from work should not send mails to private addresses. And the use of own resources is limited, provided that it is provided by approved means from VWS. There are also frameworks that officials must adhere to in order to ensure the right safeguards in the areas of information security, privacy and integrity. When it comes to directors, the so-called "blue book" requires that this is seriously discouraged. I understand that this question is being addressed within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'll expect correspondence from that. Then I have another question from Mrs Agema about whether he has handed in all the passwords of the private account to VWS. Yes. Minister De Jonge has shared both user names, passwords and multifactor tokens for both the post@hugodejonge.nl and his iCloud account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u164	This is gonna be 3,000 e-mails!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u165	Oh, my...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u166	Yeah, I was thinking if this is really useful...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u167	Oh, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u168	We will remove it from the Acts, at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u169	Excuse me. I still had the idea that we were here together, but of course that's a very crazy... Excuse me. I think this is gonna be a new address. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u170	No, it doesn't matter at all. So we're not gonna use it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u171	We don't use them anymore. In any case, all usernames, passwords and multifactor tokens have been shared in order to carry out the investigation. So, yes, that's shared. And there was Mr. Hijink's question as to whether the OVV could also do research in this mailbox to answer relevant questions. The OVV conducts independent research into the management of the corona crisis by the Dutch government and other interested parties. Under Article 38 of the Rijkswet OVV, a researcher is empowered to request access to business data and documents. This may also include messages from private accounts, if this concerns business information. However, consent should be given by the person concerned. The internal analysis carried out with respect to the private mail was intended to determine whether there have been risks related to security or commitment for the purpose of the Wob, the parliamentary survey or archiving. I think Minister De Jonge will be able to answer the specific questions about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u172	We go to Mrs. Agema of the PVV and then to Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u173	In addition to the last thing the Minister says: in her reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said this morning that it is uncertain that all information is there. So let's put that aside, Mr. Chairman. The question I had asked was just another thing that the Minister said here. I asked the following question. The Minister's answer to the question about Minister De Jonge, who has frequently e-mailed from his private e-mail because he had trouble logging in, with passwords, and all the fuss, is: yes, but if someone else did e-mail from his VWS mail, it is still secure. That wasn't my question. My question was: what if more people who had clumsy login, which wasn't good, kept forgetting passwords? What if they also started e-mailing the minister from private accounts? So you get the situation that people are emailing each other from private accounts. Then the Minister should at least confirm that information has been lost. My second question concerns the equipment. It's a good thing the passwords were delivered, but is all the equipment that the minister worked with at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u174	The answer to that last question must remain guilty, but I assume Minister De Jonge will be able to say something about it later. Otherwise, I will return to that in my second term. I take it this has been the case. As far as the first question is concerned, you are right: if it goes from private to private, we will not know, unless it is involved in the investigation and asked out. So that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u175	We therefore note that by acting, by e-mailing from private accounts in the case of the Minister, information, such as that of Deloitte and the conclusions that Deloitte is about to draw, or the OVV or the parliamentary committee of inquiry, may be incomplete by e-mailing from private addresses. Isn't that unforgivable, I ask this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u176	I think everyone's entitled to a private mailbox. We all do. We assume that no business information is shared in that. I think it's up to Minister De Jonge to explain why he chose to do so. But then it was always traffic between VWS and Minister De Jonge in his private mailbox, so we have that email.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u178	Finally, Mr President. Of course, it's fine if Mr. De Jonge e-mails with his sweethearts from his private account. Of course that's what it's for, so it also makes sense that he has a private mail account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u179	Mrs. Agema, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u180	The point is, he was gonna use it all the time because of the log-in. He couldn't handle his password. I asked, "What about other people who had the same trouble?" And if they start emailing each other from those private accounts, then that information will be completely lost, even if it's business. He's entitled to hundreds of thousands of private accounts. But the Minister must agree with me that at the moment when things are getting business and people are going to email each other business-like from private accounts, we are going to call a lot, so we have a gap in our information. Then the information contained in Deloitte's and the OVV's research is incomplete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u181	I think Deloitte's technique is such that they not only extract all information from sources such as apps and mails, but also conduct interviews. If they encounter an imperfection somewhere, they'll find out where that information is. It is true: if there have been conversations or telephone calls between people or if there have been private e-mails between them, then they may not know. But this isn't the only technique they're showing. It's a research firm specializing in forensics. They're going back to the source, just as long until they know for sure how it went. That's why it takes so long. So they reconstruct that reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u182	I'd like to check with the Minister. She just said that when it comes to the Wob, the upcoming parliamentary survey and perhaps Deloitte's investigation, the accounts, including the private accounts, of Minister De Jonge, were looked at. The Security Research Council has already completed the first investigation. That's the investigation into the first months of the corona crisis. Has the Minister also given the OVV full access to his private archive, to the e-mails he sent through his iCloud address in the first few months? And did he also make it clear in the conversations with the OVV that these e-mails exist and that they could look them up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u183	The honest answer is that I don't know, because the OVV is an independent research institute that does that research itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u184	That's true. Only, the OVV works on the basis of a law. That's the National Security Research Council. That law states that everyone who is the subject of research must fully cooperate in that investigation and must also give full access to all the information available in interviews in writing or orally. And so the directors working on VWS also have a responsibility to inform the OVV themselves about this, to say: I have my business details here, but listen, I also have a very thick file here that is in my private iCloud account. I just want to know very clearly: has the OVV been able to see all this data or not? I think that is important, because otherwise the research of the OVV will be frustrated. That would be a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u185	Whether it is really frustrated is, of course, still the question. I owe you the answer. I think you'd better ask Minister De Jonge yourself in a moment. Otherwise, I will ask Mr Kuipers. How we deal with the private accounts within VWS and how this is involved in the investigation, I cannot tell you more about that now than I have already said in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u187	My last question concerns the use of private accounts in general. The SP does want to get rid of that. This is not only because it hinders archiving and reconstruction in investigations, but it is also about data security. If Minister De Jonge even receives confidential documents at his iCloud address, it will end up on servers of American companies. You don't want data from the Dutch government to end up there. We've had endless discussions about this. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: does she agree with the SP that this should end? Can urgent advice not to do so be converted into a duty to work with the mail equipment and the mail programs offered by the government? They are sometimes worthless, but the Minister has to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u188	The very short answer is: yes, I wholeheartedly agree with that. Anyone who knows me knows that I am in this way too, no matter how uncomfortable highly secure systems may be. I recognize that. But I don't have the authority to turn that into policy. It's in the Home Secretary's office, if I'm not mistaken. We will, of course, also propose a working method for this within VWS. I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Hijink that this is very important, however uncomfortable it may be. Absolutely. This brings me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u189	Thank you. Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u190	Sorry, Chairman, just one short question. The Minister began her speech by saying that the Secretary-General of VWS has never been a member of the CDA. That is, of course, true, because the Secretary-General of that time I shall call him Mr. G., because I cannot mention that name "CDA' was not a CDA. But the other one...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u191	Maybe it's okay if the Minister comes back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u192	Yeah, I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u193	I think that's pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u194	I had one more question open. The Minister said that she went into that in an interruption, but it is a slightly different point. That was the question of how she looks at the answer given by her predecessor to questions about the involvement of the VWS Minister in the mouth cover deal. We understood yesterday from the attached letter from the former Minister that it could have been more complete and that it would have been better if it had been. But I would also like to hear from the politically responsible minister how she looks back on the response of the Minister for Medical Care, for example in June 2021 to Parliamentary questions. I would also like to hear whether we can trust that Parliament's questions will be dealt with as fully and comprehensively as possible under its responsibility, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u195	I'd like to say I'd like to do the latter, if that's what you want to hear. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u196	It is good that the Minister confirms that. But I wonder if she will also take over what Minister De Jonge said in his letter. If I look back, it would have been important and valuable, and I would like to say this in my own words, to mention this earlier in answers to those questions in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u197	Yes, I think I agree with you. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u198	I think I had one more outstanding question. I had asked the Minister how she looks at the deals that have been made with JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u199	That's right. Excuse me. It was still at the bottom of the pile. Indeed, JenV has entered into an agreement with the RGA for suspensions. The cost of the agreement was €200,000 to €300,000. It was something in that order of magnitude. For further questions on this subject, please refer to the Minister of JenV. I'll ask her to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u200	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport. I suggest we suspend for ten minutes and then we go to the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u201	I give the floor to the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your Chamber's opportunity to take part in this debate. I am committed to this and I would like to explain why. I'd like to start with that later. Those were also questions from Mrs Bikker and Mr Van der Staaij. Then I would like to explain my involvement in the realization of that mouthcap deal and what I did not do well in it. That is the essence of this debate. Then I would like to explain how my personal address is being used and what I have not done well in it. Finally, a number of groups have asked for a reflection on this situation and I would also like to give it to them. I'd be happy to do that in the end. Let me begin with a moment's reflection on something that was also mentioned in Mr Helder's term, namely that it is, of course, unusual under state law, that Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Bikker also say that a minister who now holds another portfolio in another cabinet is interfering in a debate on events that took place during the previous cabinet period. I say "unusual under the rule of law," but I have seen professors who call it "improper under the rule of law." And it wrings, of course, that's just the way it is. After all, responsibility is linked to the function, and as Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning, I do not, of course, bear any responsibility for purchasing personal protective equipment during the previous cabinet period. Nor, by the way, for the investigation of the deal with Van Lienden, because it lies with the current leaders of VWS. It is also strange that I did not bear any responsibility for this in the previous cabinet period. It wrings, that's right. I referred earlier to Deloitte's ongoing investigation and I think it is still important to wait for a complete overview of all the facts. Of course, even in the parliamentary inquiry that is coming, you have the opportunity to question me on my role, to request documents and so on. And yet I think it's good that I'm standing here today. Following the documents that went out, following the publications that followed, questions arose in the past week. Questions about my involvement in that deal and asking if I have been open and honest in it. Questions that affect confidence. Those are questions I can only answer myself. And that's why I'm standing here. I would prefer to take you with me in the context of that time, in how complicated it was to work in the midst of that crisis, but that is taking place too far for today and there are other opportunities for that. For now, I want to say that I've always done my job to the best of my conscience, and that doesn't mean that nothing ever went wrong. No one is infallible, and I too am one of mistakes and flaws. I would like to explain what my involvement has been and what my involvement has not been. In any case, I would like to explain what I did not do well myself. I did that by writing a letter to your Chamber, through the colleague for Long-Term Care. I have done so by sharing with the Chamber the disclosure of all the messages I myself have submitted to Deloitte, in anticipation of the investigation. I would like to give that explanation by taking up the debate with you today. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps one more point about the discussion that just came up, namely: have you made a selection of data and is it an incomplete set of data? I've sent all my stuff to Deloitte, along with my political assistant's traffic, to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then what I think is at the heart of today: what was this involvement and what did I not do right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u203	Before you go any further, there are a number of people who would like to ask some more questions based on your introduction. First of all, Mrs Agema, PVV, and then Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u204	Minister De Jonge also says here that a complete picture of Deloitte's research is to be expected, but how can he say that? It is also the Minister who says at some point... that is what we read in the Wob documents: 'The Minister has indicated this morning that he no longer wants to receive documents via his e-mail.' An official also writes: "I recognize that of that letter, but I think there can be a time when we must send without his consent, if only for the parliamentary historiography and anticipating a possible Wob request." How can the Minister say to us here that the Deloitte study will be complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u205	That actually affects the third block that I would have liked to explain. The first thing you're suggesting is indeed an appointment I've had for a long time in the department. Maybe it's good to explain how that works. At the end of the day you get a bag, or two, as often in my case. There's all these pieces in there that you have to do something with. It may happen once or twice that "the bag is not taken" as it is called. In the morning it is always said what time the minister returns home and what time people have to deliver the stuff for the bag. It may happen that a note is later than the bag and will then be sent by mail. If you make a habit of it, you'll be busy with your bag all the time, and watching your mailbox. That's just annoying. The normal pieces flow goes through the bag. That's what I said: boys, there's too much e-mailing; just make sure you're on time for the bag. That's just how that works in a department. What I didn't do right, of course, is use of private mail. It's also been investigated how that went. Earlier this week I already explained that I thought it was a rather impractical system: very secure, but also very impractical. Sometimes you're messing with passwords that just need to be refreshed too often, so you don't remember which password you entered. Then the system blocks, but you'll need a piece at 11:00 in the evening. That's when you get it sent over to your home address. Or you do it via an iCloud mail, because it's much more convenient to process things on your iPad in a word processor, like a concept speech, if that goes through the iCloud. Again, the system used is very safe, but not very practical. I have indeed made great use of it. It's not illegal, but it's not recommended. Why? For security reasons. In the last few days, the CIOs from both departments have been investigating how these e-mails have gone. They have come to the conclusion that there has been no safety risk. They have also come to the conclusion that it seems that the archiving could have been done fine, because one of the two addresses was always a BZK or VWS address. For example, every Wob search simply finds the mail that went back and forth via a private address. In short, I didn't do well. It's not how it's supposed to be. But has it turned out to be a security risk? Well, no. Has it turned out to be an archiving risk? Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u206	This is how we know Hugo de Jonge again: very much elaborate on a number of points. What I had asked, of course, is: how can he so firmly claim that Deloitte's research can be complete? Take the story of the bag, for example. It's really too easy to say: at night comes that bag, and then... We do know them and we sometimes see them: of those huge suitcases that are sent with the minister. But it's really an easy answer, which I won't settle for either. In the Wob requests, we didn't just see the pressure put on it. The Minister indicated this morning that he no longer wanted to receive documents by e-mail. That's very explicit. We also see how civil servants react to this. They say: I recognize that letter. Well, I think there may come a time when we must send without his consent, even if only for the parliamentary historiography and anticipating a possible Wob request. So that stupidity or clumsyness and that "yes, but I want them in that bag in time," I really think it's too skinny, I say to the Minister. I want a better explanation for not sending confidential documents to the minister anymore, other than "yes, but I wanted them for a certain time and didn't have them in the bag at night." The other point, Mr President, because yes, he immediately points three, four, five points at each other and if I have to respond to each point, I am still here after 25 interruptions. The other point concerns the CIO and the CISO which the Minister would have protected. I read something else in the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It says "as far as can be observed." And that's an important point when the minister starts e-mailing from his private account and says it doesn't matter if someone else does it from his VWS account. If the minister was having trouble logging in, so would others. And if the minister went to e-mail from his private account, others would, too. And then that information was lost. My question is: 'I started with that, President-in-Office of the Council, how the Minister can make sure that Deloitte's investigation will be complete in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u207	For the latter, I have to agree with the answer you have just received from Mr Helder. It has already explained that it is up to Deloitte to ensure a complete set of data and to do everything they can to ensure that that set of data is as complete as possible. They shall have full access to documents which they request, which they consider to be necessary. There is a possibility that third parties may also provide information. This at least guarantees that there is as complete a data set as possible. Can you completely rule out that somewhere on this globe there's another piece of paper they're not taking? Of course, you can never rule that out, but this is the way to get as complete a picture as possible. Then about using those private addresses. Of course, the conclusion you are making is correct. But that's actually the same disclaimer that should always be made: you don't know what you don't know. And with that, I think it's a fair representation of what those CIO and those CISO have been able to investigate in the last few days. I am very grateful that they were able to do so at such short notice on behalf of the sg's of both departments. I simply submitted my passwords and they checked the mailboxes and found that there is no security risk because no classified documents were found. They also found that there is no archiving risk, because it seems that there is always an email on the other side. So there is always an email on the other side, at an address of the department. This brings it into the picture of a Wob search and, therefore, a search for the parliamentary survey in the near future. And, to have answered that question right, also where it would be about the OVV. Suppose data is requested, of course they are fully accessible. There was also a limited number of private mails, which did not have a departmental address on the other hand. That was about a handful of e-mails. It has been found that although they are VWS-related, they have simply contained public information. In short, no security risk has been observed and no archiving risk has been observed. I think this is important. Adding one more point: no one has any interest in supplying incomplete items and no Minister at all. So, I'm just happy that as much as possible is being sent along. That is what I have done to the Chamber and, of course, what I will do when a parliamentary committee of inquiry or anyone asks for it. If there are any questions raised, especially if there are questions raised that even affect confidence, transparency is needed in order to answer them as openly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u208	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u209	Once again, I would like to point out to the Minister that the CIO and the CISO say 'as far as can be observed'. That'll keep the disclaimer here. I've known this minister for years, and we've been debating each other for years. I know him as a very complete minister. Sometimes it's quite handsome to notice how much knowledge he has of files and laws. I can't imagine this minister being at the same time someone who doesn't have his password management in order, doesn't get it in order for two years and messing around and messing around with it. And then he's going to e-mail through his private e-mail, while he's also actively communicating to officials that he doesn't want to be emailed anymore. And these officials say: yes, but what about parliamentary history and the Public Administration Act; we have to do so at some point. So it's a weak story from a minister who's always been so broad and so complete in debates, and also widely spoken, that he just doesn't have that password management in order. It's so weird. It's such a loose end in the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u210	I am afraid I have to take Mrs Agema with me in the way I work and also in the pits of the civil service. I'm gonna do that in a limited way. Everything on BZK is digital. There you work with the program DigiDoc and there you get all the pieces digitally. That could be at any time of the day. If you're in a really bad hurry, you'll get a signal that you need to take a look at it, and otherwise you'll just work your DigiDoc out at night. On VWS it's still a bit classic. I don't know what it's like now, but then it was all a little more classic. There you get the whole flow of pieces on paper, in one bag or in two bags, depending on how much production has been delivered to the department. Unfortunately, it was always very much. But not everything always gets the bag. That's annoying, because that means you have to do the bag and also keep an eye on your mailbox. That's how you keep busy. So the instruction was: make sure you're on time for the bag. But if you need an agreement on a note in the evening, or an agreement on a letter of office, you simply do so by e-mail. Indeed you have an iPad, a laptop and a phone. Well, then sometimes you mix up the passwords for those three. Then one of these things gets jammed and you get to see that you have to change your password or do something else. User-friendly, I think. Very safe, but very clumsy. Besides, I just love Apple very much and the way you can get started with Apple. That's much more practical. So indeed I had a lot sent home. Is that against the law? No, not that. Is it not recommended? Yes, it is. And so I had to quit, too. 'Cause it's not supposed to be. So I quit, too. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u211	The Minister does not at any time go into the officials who say: we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u212	I don't recognize that e-mail. Do you mind if I just find out what that has to do with and what that's related to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u213	This is about the moment when it is said that the Minister has indicated this morning that he no longer wants to receive documents by e-mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u214	Just give me a chance to figure that out, because it just doesn't mean anything to me. Yeah, well, there's that e-mail, which I just explained, in which I did say: now do all that stuff through the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u215	Yes, but then the officials of that letter who are no longer allowed in the bag say: 'Remember that there may be a time when we may have to send it without his permission, even if only for parliamentary historiography and anticipating a possible Wob request'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u216	That doesn't ring a bell. I just need to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u217	That's from the Wob pieces. I'm not making it up, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u218	The Minister will return to that in the second term. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u219	I still have that other problem. Today we are discussing the involvement of this minister in the Sywert deal. Why was he involved? To what extent was he involved? And why hasn't he told the truth about that for so long? The problem remains that Minister De Jonge is actually defining the framework within which we are holding this debate. It is his information, that what he has collected for the Deloitte study, on the basis of which we now have to examine to what extent he was actually involved. Can the Minister exclude that from other parts of the Deloitte investigation, such as the correspondence of Minister Van Rijn, the correspondence of Minister Van Ark, or conversation reports that we have not been able to see, there is still a completely different picture? Can he exclude that this might show that officials, or other government officials among themselves, are discussing and finding that there has been much more influence from this minister than we can now draw from his own information?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u220	I understand this inconvenience. Of course, I do. I've been thinking about it: do I have to be at this debate or not? You know it's just not possible for state law. At the same time, if there are any questions that have come to mind about trust, you will have to. I'm Minister of Housing. So I'm not standing here as the then U.S. Secretary of State. I'm standing here as the current Minister for Housing. As Minister for Housing, I would like to take a lot of decisions with your Chamber in the coming period. It doesn't help if things get in the way. That's why I felt like I had to have that conversation with the Chamber myself. In my view, this was also a request from a large part of the Chamber, albeit not the majority, but a large part of the opposition. Then when you have that debate, it makes sense for you to explain your role. That's what I wanted to do in a letter. Since I felt that I should not have an independent information role with the Chamber, I did so through the minister responsible for the investigation. And I wanted to do that because I suspected that if you had such a debate, the question would immediately arise in order to show the apps and the e-mails that were sent at the time. There's only one way I can do that. I naturally attach particular importance to Mr Helder's line of action, which is, by the way, entirely her responsibility as regards the completeness of the data, before an actual factual account can be given. Nevertheless, I wanted to feed the debate as much as possible on that part of the information I myself have at my disposal. That has been the consideration of wanting to make public all the apps and e-mails that I had handed over to Deloitte, also to the Chamber, in anticipation of the investigation. That is indeed a choice of mine. That's a form of active disclosure. Nothing resists that. At most, the inconvenience is that what you're referring to is that we're not sure it's complete. Of course, I don't know that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u221	The problem with ebbing confidence is, of course, that every step that is taken is placed extra far and extra deep under the magnifying glass of the Chamber. The same applies to the way in which this process has gone and it has been played through Minister Helder. In my view, the Minister is anxious to get this information to the Chamber, while we do not have the assurance that there are other documents that the Minister has not sent to the Chamber, from which another picture will come. That bothers me, because we must be able to judge today. The trust's gone. We must do it with the information that the Minister himself collected and sent to Deloitte. I'm just saying that's what's bothering me. The Minister will discuss his precise role in detail in a moment, but I am stuck with the fact that I do not rule out the fact that, when we have the full investigation later, it can be seen that officials among themselves, or Minister Van Rijn with his officials, have also established: yes, it is a shit deal, but we have to do it, because Hugo de Jonge has said it. My problem is that it still comes from the documents and that there can be an interest of this minister in sending this information now and that we have to deal with it. I fear that this will continue to be a major problem for this evening, because trust will not come back to us in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u222	Can I ask Members to keep the interruptions really shorter? That's what we agreed on. There are a lot of questions. These are real contributions for the second term. I would also like to ask the Minister to answer the questions that have been asked as directly as possible, without much context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u223	I understand the inconvenience. I don't know if I can take that away. I can be as open as I can be. That's what I wanted to do. I do not have any of those other interview reports, documents or anything else at my disposal. I don't know. What I do know is what I remember about my role from that time. What I can find is the apps in my phone. What I can find are any e-mails that have been sent. I wanted to be as open as possible to serve the debate as much as possible. That it knows its limitations, that it does. It is true that it is a matter of national law. But I think that the alternative is still much more uncomfortable, namely not to have the debate and not to have it for three months. I thought I would observe here in the Chamber that there was a need to actually provide an answer to the questions raised and to be able to have that conversation with me. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u224	Can we get the other versions of the app calls, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u225	I don't understand that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u226	I was thinking about the short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u227	Yeah, but they have to be understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u228	It says version "June 29th, 12:21 p.m." I was wondering if there'd be other versions. I'd like to receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u229	What you received is, of course, the latest version. I think I'll fill that in now but I'll check it out because I didn't compile that document myself... the way to paint names have led to this version management. First you have everything and then there are some names, for example of civil servants, to be painted away. That could have led to this version management. I'll check that out. Then, of course, you have to get the very last version and not, for example, the partly unpainted version.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u230	Does Mr De Jonge have any respect for the Chamber and the work she does?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u231	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u232	I ask that because he actually did something that the Chamber has been asking for for a long time with the request to share it yesterday. Has he considered and considered that that is something that the Chamber has really been asking about for a long time and what didn't come? After his intervention, after his contact with the Minister, because he wanted to, I think that contributes to his defense, that was shared anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u233	There are two points. It's two different information requests. The first is an information request about the question: what are the facts? How did this deal come about? That is why the whole process of the research has been agreed with Deloitte. Mr Helder has just responded to the questions about how this process works and what the inability to speed it up is. The second point is that, on the basis of the questions raised, I made it clear to you as well as possible what happened and what my role has been and has not been. It helps if I am in that debate, because the questions that touch on trust can only be answered by me. That's one. Two. It helps to explain that then. I did so in writing in the letter you received. Three. Yes, if you enter such a debate, of course you feel that there is a demand: but can there be any support apps and e-mails and so on that confirm that story of the minister? I think that's a logical question, too. So it is precisely out of respect for the Chamber that I have been as open as possible with regard to the information, in order to be able to fund the debate properly. That's information that's only available to me. That is therefore a limitation of the information. So I also understand Mr Hijink's point. I understand his inconvenience. You don't know what you don't know. There could be another interview report somewhere. Well, that's gonna come up anyway. There is that certainty. In order to have the debate, I have now sent my apps and my e-mails to the Chamber. This has been the same selection as Deloitte had for the study.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u234	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u235	This means that the Minister indicates that this has been there for six months, or from 29 July, for nine months. So he could have chosen to share this with the Chamber at any moment. Now we really should not get into the situation that the weather is about: did you ask exactly that and what did you ask? Why do we get this 24 hours before the debate, if the Minister even says: I think it is important that you get this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u236	Well, the consideration of coming to the debate myself, I made a few days ago, in consultation with colleagues. Then I thought, "How would you do that?" So you have to explain that in a letter. So you also have to provide the data that goes with it. That's how it happened. I would like to say a few words about whether I should have been fully informed of the Chamber earlier. I would like to go there now, because I think that is at the heart of the debate. The answer to that question is, by the way, yes. That is the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u237	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u238	The essence of this debate is that the world does not depend on what Hugo de Jonge wants, and certainly not on parliamentary control. The world doesn't revolve around Hugo the Young. So we wouldn't have gotten that information if Hugo de Jonge had said as Minister: I'm not taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u239	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u240	Wait a minute, Mr. Chairman. I find that a very disturbing conclusion. This means that it depends on the choice made by the Minister in his other role whether we are informed in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution or not. We have established that Minister Helder says: I thought it unwise to share this and I did it purely because the Minister had asked me to do so. That's random, isn't it? We can't do our jobs like this, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u241	I don't think so. I'm gonna try to say it again. Perhaps you will cut me off, Mr President, because it is a repetition of what I have said before and of what Mr Helder has said before. On the one hand, we want to understand with each other what happened. How did the deal come about? Who knew what did and what didn't and at what time? Who were the actors in the process of making the deal? And how exactly are we gonna look back on that deal? Could they have been shut down at all and so on? If you want to judge that, you're gonna have to know the whole complex of the facts. The research to achieve this is an extremely complex study, and Mr Helder has just said something about it. This is something else. The questions raised following last week's publication are questions that are not so much about: was it a sensible deal or not? No, things were about my involvement in that deal. That's a matter that suddenly hit the mat last week. That means that questions have arisen. I have assessed it in this way, and I believe that it is right for me to respond to your Chamber, at least to a large part of the Chamber, which feels that this should be the subject of a debate with me. That is why I said: I would like to have the debate. That is why I said: in support of this debate, I write both a letter and deliver what I have also submitted to Deloitte to the Chamber. I would like to use this as a means of maximum openness so that we can have that debate. The limitation that Mr Hijink points out, are you sure this is all there is to it? I'm feeling it, too. This is what I can do at the moment, because Mr Helder's other point is equally valid. It's at least as valid, because if you really want to know how that whole deal came about, you just have to wait and see Deloitte's entire investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u242	There are some interruptions. I've seen Mr. Klaver a few times... We've agreed a little bit now that you can just walk to the microphone, but... Mrs Agema rightly said that we are still in a corona regime. I shall go first to Mr Klaver, then to Mrs Van der Plas and then to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u243	We will soon come to what the Minister knew or did not know at what point, but I still have problems with the reply of the Minister so far. Indeed, there is some arrogance and in any case no awareness of the relationship between the cabinet and the Chamber. This information was shared yesterday, but it should have come to the Chamber much earlier. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u244	Yes. I will explain later why. That is really at the heart of the second block, namely: what was my involvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u245	I think there are a lot of questions about the Minister's involvement. Isn't it good to... It's not that. Okay, then I would like the other questions on whether or not to be involved to be asked in a moment, because the Minister would like to deal with them in the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u246	There are two cases, and I want a divorce. It is about the involvement of the Minister, and that is what we are going to talk about in detail. This is about whether or not to share information with the Chamber and respond to Wob requests. This information has apparently been available since June. The Chamber has asked for more information at various times. That information wasn't given. I therefore ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that he should have shared that information with the Chamber at the time that it went to Deloitte and that he had that overview. I would now like an answer to that, because I say this in order to explain it. I really want to tear a few things apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u247	The information. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u248	The short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u249	That's nice. Thank you. It's a big mistake the Minister didn't do that. Does he recognize that this is a pattern that we see very often in this cabinet? So I mean that ministers only come to the understanding that they have to share something when they get into trouble. That's just when they say it's wrong that I didn't do it before. There is now an exciting debate and he says that we can only have that debate with this information. Isn't that exactly the pattern we've seen on all the other files?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u250	That is really more nuanced, but for that I really need to be able to tell the story well. That is why I am going to ask Mr Klaver whether he is okay with me explaining my involvement. Then I can also explain when I felt I should have informed the Chamber, informed it better, informed it more comprehensively. I would therefore like to point out how I look back at this, and I would like to make a nuance in the suggestion put forward by Mr Klaver here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u251	Mr President, if the Minister insists, then... I'll tell you, if there's another whole knit on the table, we're gonna tear it apart again. This is what we need to be very precise about. I'm gonna wait and see, and then we're gonna interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u252	I'd like to come back to the Minister's passwords. He said, "It's all a bit tricky. Then I don't have a password again. And then it goes wrong again. It's user-unfriendly." I think it's very simple. If that's the case, you just call an IT specialist and say, you know, I'm just freaking out; fix this. Then you don't go to your private email, because with your private email on Apple, the biggest risk is that all your data in your Apple equipment is linked to your Apple ID. If your Apple ID is hacked, they will have access to your iCloud, so to everything the minister has in this case in his IPad and in his IPhone. When you say, "I find it all difficult, so I'm just doing it through my private e-mail," in my experience as a minister, you knowingly take a risk that you're being hacked and that a lot of confidential information is going to be on the street. I would like to ask the Minister if he agrees. I think it's pretty serious that you take that risk knowingly, just because you don't feel like calling the IT specialist or just making sure it's okay. A minister just has a responsibility in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u253	What I agree with is that it is not in accordance with the compelling advice that we, as rulers, receive. So far, I agree with you. But it has just been decided whether there has been a safety risk here and the answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u254	I seriously doubt that, because all the IT specialists I'm talking to say that that security risk is just there. All equipment, from phones to iPads, and accounts, iCloud, Facebook, WhatsApp, everything can be hacked. I simply think it is very serious that a minister out of ease should be independent of whether or not he chooses to act as minister, because in those e-mails there are also names of officials, of people who we always protect here too, willingly and knowingly take the risk. I ask the Minister once again: that is bad, can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u255	The urgent opinion is not to do it. It is not prohibited, but the urgent opinion is not to do so. I certainly did not take that urgent advice and I have to do so, so I agree with you on this point. Then, of course, what type of documents is involved. Are these state secret documents or are they, for example, draft speeches? That's a whole different story, of course. The CIO and the CISO have established that it was not classified documents and that it has been established that it is unlikely that it has posed any security risk. That in general e-mailboxes and even the iCloud I have a very difficult password to hack for the iCloud, that's of course true, but that's taken on its own. Everyone I think has a private address and that private address can be hacked, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u256	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u257	It's not just the security risks. The issue is that there are also documents that mention people's names. If that account gets hacked, all those names are gonna be on the street, too. Hackers or people who have something evil in mind can also use those names and with what is in them just anything. I do think that the Minister is waltzing over that a little bit, of 'yes, it is an advice not to do it and it is not forbidden', but he simply took that risk, out of ease. I think you're responsible as a minister, including for all your people. 5,000 officials work at the VWS Ministry. Then you're responsible for all those people and their security, and the protection of privacy, aren't you? The Minister just didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u258	That's right. I didn't do that. So I didn't stick to the advice. I should have, and I will from now on. So that's right. With regard to the security risk, I do attach great importance to the judgment of the CIO and CISO, i.e. the officials concerned who also have to see to it. They have found that there is no security risk in terms of the sharing of classified documents. I think that is an important observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u259	I think it's enough now. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as BVNL is concerned, there are four things going on and I think they are quite certain. 100 million euros of taxpayers' money was thrown away from bad mouth caps. We shouldn't have done that deal. We could have done something else. Minister De Jonge interfered at the time. He took advantage of his private e-mail, whether it was to evade Wob requests, let's take a moment in the middle and he lied about his involvement. These four things are quite certain, so my question to the Minister is: how does he actually feel about it, is this how a minister should behave?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u261	I assume the minister right there, after the second...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u262	I hear all kinds of fairly firm statements by Mr Van Haga, but I really do want to start by explaining what is going on. Then let's draw the conclusions afterwards. I think that's just a good order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u263	Shall we first give the Minister the opportunity to answer the many questions that have been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u264	Well, no. The general question is: how does he himself feel about it? From the behavior of this minister a scent rises that culminates in these four things. And you can say in general: we are having a very annoying debate here about a very annoying deal that the whole of the Netherlands believes should never have happened, and the Minister has been involved. So my question is: how does the Minister himself feel about this image arising from his ministry at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u265	I think it would be good to explain that on the basis of the second block, which is about involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u266	So we'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u267	Mr President, this is a simple question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u268	Yes. The Minister indicated that he would answer that question, but on the second subject, just like Mr Klaver's questions. And if your question is not answered adequately, I will give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u269	That's why I'm asking the question now, but well... This is starting to be a bit of a hopeless debate. Because in this way, I think we're just moving slowly towards the moment when we see the coalition deal coming into being. Then there's a lame excuse and we're going to take a motion of grief. And then we'll move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u270	Because of imagery, Minister De Jonge felt compelled to interfere with Mr Van Lienden and make a deal with him, even though Minister De Jonge was not politically responsible for that. Because of imagery he felt compelled to respond to an OVV report, while in fact he was no longer a responsible minister at the time. He felt compelled to respond to Wob expressions done in the Volkskrant, and to bring journalists to the Department of Housing, while he was no longer politically responsible. Because of imagery, he felt obliged to join this debate. And imagery has also led him to force Minister Helder to send documents to the Chamber, when she said: I think it is unwise to do so. My simple question to the Minister is: does he recognize himself in that image? This also explains why he's standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u271	No. No, I'd think that was way too short. I have seen that questions have arisen which do not so much affect the position of the then Minister as to this Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. Those questions affect the trust. And I need to be able to function freely in this role. I must be able to function freely in this role. And questions that arise about trust in the Minister, I can only answer myself. Has the Minister been open and honest? I can't wait three months to answer those questions either. I also believe that your Chamber has been very clear about this. At least, a very large minority said last week: we want the Minister to be present for the debate. That is what I wanted to meet. That is not a question of imaging, but it is a matter of being open and transparent, being open and honest, because you see that there is something to be restored in the confidence that the Chamber has in you, can have in you and must have in you. That's why I'm standing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u272	I think it is wise for the Minister to be here, despite the fact that it is unique under state law. But it is precisely the Minister's constant desire to respond to what is happening in the media that has, in my view, also led us to be in this unique position. But let me ask you another question. Does the Minister recognize the following? Because Minister De Jonge Minister Helder forced these documents to be made public, while Minister Helder didn't want them to, Minister De Jonge has also put the current Minister for Long-Term Care in political trouble. This, while Minister Helder considered the disclosure of these documents unwise in the context of the ongoing investigation. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u273	No. I don't recognize that, just not. The unity of government policy applies to this too. No one's been forced. I sent a letter requesting Mr Helder, and she accepted that request by passing that letter to the Chamber, including all the accompanying documents. And that is what has been done to ensure that this debate is conducted in the best possible way. That's why. That choice began with me, because I wanted to be able to have the debate with your Chamber in order to do justice to the questions that had arisen. And that is a choice that Mr Helder has agreed to. But she did say that, and I also understand that it is not yet the complete facts. And so I cannot yet fully reflect on the policy pursued with regard to that mouth cover deal in the previous cabinet period. I do want to answer for that, but I can't do that until the complete facts come out. This is purely about the involvement of the current Minister for Housing, so that he can remove the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u274	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u275	We'll discuss the involvement later. But the words 'I want' actually reflect the characteristics of the problem we find. Imaging is more important than the general interest. "I want" is more important than Minister Helder's position. "I want" is more important than what the Chamber wants. That's what it's all about. I would like to highlight that, because that is precisely why, in my opinion, Minister De Jonge is here today, despite the fact that it is a unique state.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u276	I would just like to respond to a wish which I assessed as being widely supported in the Chamber, namely to clarify the questions. That's what I wanted. I want to be open and honest in the direction of your room. That's why I'm standing here. I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u277	I thought we were still at the block about the use of e-mail addresses, so before we go to the next block, I would like to say that I had asked some questions about that, precisely because the use was long-term and in a time of crisis. After your reaction to a number of Members of Parliament here, the question arises to me: why did you stop now, when you have used your private address for so long, against the strong advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u278	Well, just because it's urgent advice. That's what it was then. At some point it's good to put aside your recalcitrantism and just stick to an urgent advice. That's the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u279	Mrs. Paulma? No. Then I think we have had the general theme and use of private accounts. Let's move on to the subject of engagement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u280	Yeah, I think we've been holding the third block by now. Now let's start on the second block. That's about the involvement. What was the involvement in the deal? Well, that's about the contacts I wrote in the letter I sent you through my colleague Helder. You have seen these contacts in the annex. Those contacts were my involvement. I wasn't involved in the deal. It wasn't my wallet. I didn't take responsibility for that deal as the VWS Minister at the time. I had no involvement in the negotiations or decision-making on the deal with Van Lienden, and by the way, no deal. But I did have contacts in the department about Van Lienden. You've been able to read it. That was my involvement. Those contacts about Van Lienden with officials were lacking in the reply to the Chamber on 1 June of the then Minister for Medical Care. As a result, I inadvertently made it appear that I had had no contact whatsoever with Mr Van Lienden's initiatives. That's what caused me to be confused. This could simply have been avoided by mentioning these contacts with Mr Van Lienden in addition to answering the questions of the Chamber. That is not a reproach towards my colleague at the time. On the contrary, I'm charging myself for that. I did read with the answer to the Chamber at the time. I didn't get into that. In doing so, I have not sufficiently monitored the completeness of the information provided to the Chamber. I regret that. My involvement has not been properly explained. For that, I would like to make my sincere apologies to the House of Representatives. Also when I received questions last year from RTL journalists, from the Algemeen Dagblad and others, it would have been more complete if, in addition to the answers, I had mentioned my contacts in the department about Mr Van Lienden. I apologize for this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u281	Thank you. Is this what you are about this theme...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u282	More questions have been asked, but I see there are some interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u283	Is it okay to finish? I think that's wise. I've seen you all. Why don't you sit down? I've written down an order. That's just as convenient now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u284	The question that comes to mind is: why? When those questions were asked from the media, but also when Mr Van Ark answered those questions to the Chamber on 1 June, why didn't you have a clear view that those answers should be more complete? Of course, I've asked myself that question a hundred times over the last week. I can only come to the answer that my entire focus was on my own portfolio, that's one. Two: that if the question was asked about the deal, you've been involved in the deal, I just said on the basis of my memory: well, no, I haven't been involved in the deal. In doing so, I did not realize that I unintentionally did not mention those contacts, when I should have mentioned those contacts. That just didn't go well. I apologise sincerely for that, because I should have taken care of the completeness of that reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u285	You should always be careful when ministers talk about memories, but that's not what my question is about. The Minister says that Minister Van Ark did not do well in answering the questions of 1 June and that he should have taken better care to ensure that that had happened. But in the same month questions were also asked about the Ministry's annual report, directly to this minister. The answer is exactly the same and I have not heard the Minister say anything about it. There have been four or five moments when the Minister had the opportunity to inform the Chamber and the media properly. That was in May, when the various media asked for his involvement. That was on June 1st with the parliamentary questions. And that was later in June at the annual report. And at all these moments, the exact same line of words has been chosen. There was a strategy behind that, that this is the answer. You could say that if those questions are asked four or five times, you're looking at yourself: hm, is this right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u286	I understand what Mr Klaver is asking. This is, of course, the reason why I have been in my head with this question over the last few days. Why didn't I take a closer look at the completeness of the answers at the time? I'd like to illustrate that. You are right that it was also a question of the annual report. You're absolutely right about that. I think the most precise question was put by Mrs Pouw-Verweij, in those parliamentary questions of 1 June. In Question 6, she asks: "What role have other CDAs played in this, as there is at least the appearance of conflict of interest here?" Of course, Mr Van Ark answers this by saying: "Inside the department I am responsible as Minister for Medical Care." Then I checked three elements in that answer to see if that answer is correct. The first is that Mr Van Lienden contacted the Minister's political advisor in March 2020. I remember, so I thought, yes, that's correct. The second is that several messages from Van Lienden were sent to me because I forwarded them to Mr Van Rijn. Well, I remember, so that's what I think: yes, that's right. And in addition: "there was again contact between the political advisor and Mr Van Lienden because of his message that he had delivered mouth caps to a healthcare organisation that had previously been offered to the government"; third element. That's what I thought: I remember that, right? That's just a correct answer to the question. Only now I find, now that this confusion has arisen and now that I have once again looked back very carefully what contacts there have actually been... This was about Van Lienden and CDA'ers in the department. But from me about Van Lienden with others, I think I should have said that. That's my point. The answer to itself is not incorrect, but I would have found it more complete, I would have found it more complete, if I had said so. That could have prevented a lot of confusion. That is why I say: zero blame, of course, towards Mr Van Ark, because I have just read those answers, so zero reproach in her direction, quite the contrary. I did not take sufficient care to do so, and I think I should have mentioned this for the sake of completeness. Three elements are correct, but that fourth element I think should have been included because of its completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u287	The Minister said question after question after question, from the media and the parliament: I was not involved in this deal. Now we've seen all the messages. It's been pushed to make sure this deal came about. It is not just as has been said in the parliamentary questions: 'I informed Mr Van Rijn of this, I have continued the messages'. It's just that officials have been ordered to make the deal. Then you're just involved in making such a deal, aren't you? Just admit it: you were involved, you denied it, and you weren't honest with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u288	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have not been involved in a deal, not in the decision-making process that led to a deal, not in the negotiation of a deal. I haven't been involved in a deal. That is also the background to the explanation I have for myself in the question: why did I not ensure a more complete answer? If the question is "have you been involved in a deal?', Then the answer is very simple: no, I'm not. That wasn't my wallet either. I couldn't have been involved at all either, because I wasn't about that at all. The question here is: to what extent have you dealt with it? I have, of course, been "involved," as everyone was involved in the search for as many protective equipment as possible. That doesn't make me suddenly involved in that deal, but that obviously means that I've been in touch with the department. At that time it was hoarse; it was all hands on deck. Van Rijn and I had both just begun in this new role. His job was indeed personal protective equipment and ic's, and my job was the overall crisis management. We had regular consultations, of course, and in such a consultation leads pass by. That is also the first contact I can trace myself with one of the top officials. That's obviously a feedback, at least, that's how I see it from a meeting I had in the department. Several leads passed by. They were then mentioned and then asked: how far along are you with that lead and has that led to anything? Well, then they'll figure it out and then they'll put it back together. That's the first contact. The second contact has been made following a tweet by Van Lienden in which he says something about mouth caps and home care. Well, that's why I asked my political advisor to make a call. Well, a long litany came back with all kinds of qualifications about the LCH and why all that wouldn't be right. And then, of course, I called Mr Van Rijn and said: "Oh, I think we should get to work on this; shall I ask one of our officials to contact Van Lienden on this? Well, that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u289	I want to separate two things. The Minister's commitment to the purchase of mouth caps: praise. I understand that too many mouth caps have been bought in. That was the whole atmosphere in which they worked. You won't hear me criticize that. How many other of these kinds of leads that have been passed on have the Minister asked: what about, exactly how many do we take off? There is quite extensive correspondence about this deal with Sywert. How many other deals did you do this exactly like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u290	I don't know. I'm not sure I can trace that either. That could prove to be the case, later, from the investigation, because we have all the correspondence. What I do see is that it was one of the annexes, and that is why I know that at least there were many 'vip-leads', as they were then called. Those were, for example, leads given to me by MPs. Many well-known and less well-known Dutchman, but also many politicians and ex-politician have come forward with ideas. Yeah, everyone was helping out at the time. They either checked in with me or they checked in with my political assistant or colleague Van Rijn or one of the top officials. They checked in with the whole department. And wherever you came in, we made sure it got started. In the beginning there was a lot of criticism. I myself had the debate with your Chamber on this because the agreement was that I would do the debates with the Chamber so that Van Rijn could continue to work in the department. I have therefore had the debate with the Chamber on this matter myself. And what I remember from that time: there was a huge frustration here, because then something was passed on and then the deal was still not closed within a week or so. And then I had to go after it. So, yeah, that's happened several times, not just on this deal. What made it necessary for me to be involved in this deal? Or, necessarily... what was the reason for that involvement? That was because I got back in that second contact that Van Lienden had the idea: I'm going to set up some kind of alternative route next to the LCH with an alternative air bridge to China. That was dangerous, because that could mean competition for the National Consortium Resources. That was the reason that was very undesirable. That was the reason why I had contact with Van Rijn, such as: shall I make sure that people ask out what is going on there? For example, the mail exchange or the app exchange with one of those top officials was made. That's how the contact between that top official and Van Lienden was established. Then I see in those apps a couple of days that he keeps me in the loop, and then that stops. And ten days after that, that deal is closed. But what was that all about in those few days? Avoid that was the conversation that is going to create an alternative next to the LCH that will give you competition on the air bridge, potential, or competition with the Country Consortium Tools. You can't use that in those days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u291	Then I will give Mr Klaver a chance to ask one question and then to the other colleagues. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u292	Mr. Chairman. This is Hugo de Jonge at work. I'm asking a question about involvement. "No, it's more nuanced." I get a whole answer, really super-expanded, about how everything was going at the time. You were just involved in the creation of this... That is simply clear from the answer you give yourself. You're making it into a semantic discussion, but you were involved. And the argument that you say, "Yes, I did, because this was special, because I wanted to prevent competition"... You could have called KLM and said: listen friends, we can't have competition; that air bridge must be for the LCH. That would also have been a way to fix it. So I don't find it strange that you say "I didn't want competition," but there were other ways to stop that. But you chose to make a deal. You can, you can, but be honest about that. You were involved in making this deal. You put civil servants to work on the Easter weekend, for Christ's sake. You were the top boss there at the Ministry. If you let the highest official know "I would like you to contact; yes, it's all very difficult, arrange it," then officials will walk. For so they are; they are faithful, loyal people, who try to do the best for their ruler. Here's what happened. Admit it equestrianly, not half as you do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u293	No, I really attach to more precision, Mr. Clover. And I do, because I want to answer for it, because I want to be open and honest. So I'm not gonna sit here and play games about what a definition of "involvement" is, because I was involved. Only, not on the deal, not on the deal, not on a deal, not on a deal, not on decision-making that led to a deal. None of that. But I was involved, definitely. And the reason for that involvement was to avoid that competition at the LCH, the competition on the air bridge. I put the top official to work on this after I asked Mr Van Rijn: shall we do so, because we must prevent it? And there was no mention in my contact with Van den Dungen at the time of "there must be a deal." No, "what we need is that the leads that are put forward are not unintentionally rejected." Well, that was one of the points of criticism that my p.a. got back when he contacted me. Another point was that we must avoid competition on the air bridge. And how that should be achieved, through a cooperation structure or otherwise... Well, those were all options that were there at the time. I don't know if it's been considered calling the KLM. I don't know, because I wasn't there. That wasn't my job either. What I did do was the observations that my p.a. had gotten from Van Lienden to continue to Van den Dungen, with the request: call, and go see if you can get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u294	Thank you. Now we go to Mr Van Houwelingen. No, there are other colleagues who are also waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u295	I understand, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u296	Yes, but if you understand, you will also give your colleagues a chance. They want to ask questions, too. And if there are any questions left, you'll have the floor, yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u297	I have one point I would like to make. I can ask you a question, but I wanted to tear this apart. I have just said that: let us deal with this separately. Now, exactly what I thought, everything gets thrown into one pile, and I get longer answers than anyone else. And with that, we're missing the precision. I actually want to ask a short question to make it precise, otherwise it will run away. Because the minister says, "I didn't order you to make a deal." But we just see in the messages: "Hugo, at your request I went to cuddle with Sywert. That's almost a day job." And at other times we see again: it's round, fortunately. "Top," says this minister. Then how can you insist that you didn't give the order, that you were involved in making this deal come about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u298	I don't want a semantic discussion about involvement. And I also think that I should have reported those contacts about Van Lienden. I'm just apologizing to the Chamber for that. I also think that I should have reported those contacts to the Chamber because they are relevant. That's why I apologized. But the question here is: has it been ordered, by me, to come to a deal? And the answer to that question is, no, I haven't made a decision to make a deal. I have not been involved in negotiations; that was not my portfolio either. What I did do was try to prevent an alternative from being created alongside the LCH. That's how I've been involved. And that's relevant, and I should have reported it. And I didn't, and I apologize for that. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u299	Where and when did the minister speak to Sywert van Lienden for the first time in person, so face to face?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u300	In my life?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u301	In 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u302	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u303	On this subject, I assume?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u304	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u305	Not on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u306	It is a pity that my first question to the Minister is answered with a lie. I have here an e-mail from the VWS Department of 5 March 2020, including Mr Bart van den Brink and Carine Braun in the cc. "Dear Sywert, I would like to confirm the appointment with Minister Hugo de Jonge on Wednesday 11 March at 5:45 p.m." So that's why my friendly request is: would you reconsider your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u307	No, because I didn't talk to Van Lienden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u308	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u309	We have not talked about personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u310	You didn't talk to Mr. Van Lienden at the VWS Ministry on March 11th at 5:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u311	That was for corona. Wait a minute. I just want to take some things apart. I didn't talk to him about personal protective equipment. But you know he's a member of the same party. It has been referred to at regular intervals. We're gonna go on about that. In that context, I spoke to him. He was also a member of the programme committee. But I didn't talk to him about the personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u312	This is unbelievable! You spoke with Mr Sywert van Lienden at the VWS Ministry on 11 March at 5:45 p.m. You did. And you say you didn't talk to him about the mouth caps at the time. You didn't mention the mask deal? That just happened to be a social call right before that deal was concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u313	It wasn't right before. I don't know what date it was. Let's just assume that March 11th is right. That was when the election program had to be written. In that context, I spoke to him. I was not responsible for the corona policy at the time either. I think that mouthcap discussion was later, too. At least the deal isn't until the end of April. I did talk to him, but not about that. I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u314	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u315	The story of the facts has yet to come. You did speak to Sywert van Lienden at 5:45 p.m. on March 11 at the VWS. You're admitting that now. A few weeks later, in fact, that mask deal was negotiated. That's what happened back then. The Chamber will be able to pass a judgment on this later. So you insist here with dry eyes that you didn't talk about the mouth cap deal. We know it's different. We're being lied to again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u316	You don't know it's different, because it's the only way. You can't do that at all. I wasn't responsible at all at the time. That was Bruno Bruins. The mouthcap discussion actually played in all intensity only later. The deal's a month later, so it just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u317	What I absolutely do not understand is that the Minister first very much stresses "I want to meet the Chamber, therefore I give all that information" and then, when he is standing here, to minimize his role and his involvement in that Sywert deal. If you look at those pieces, you can see that filthy quote "you can better have that Sywert inside pissing out than outside pissing in" and the apps he's exchanging with his top officials like "Super! It's a great thing that agreements are being made." Then you see the inconvenience with the officials, but also with the LCH, about the involvement and pushing on this deal, when they actually say: we shouldn't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u318	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u319	My question is: isn't it clear in everything that this minister has been much more involved in making a deal than just passing a few messages to Minister Van Rijn?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u320	Well, the involvement was greater than at the time indicated in the answers that I have traced contacts with civil servants, which is also evident from apps that I had not reported in the answers to the parliamentary questions. Of that I say: I should have, even though that was not a direct contact of mine with Van Lienden. It doesn't matter. It was definitely about Van Lienden. So to that extent, my involvement was greater than I suggested in the answer here. I said: I think I should have done so more fully. I apologized for that, too. So in that respect, I agree with you. Nor do I share the view that I am trying to make things smaller here than it is. I just insist that I am not involved in a deal and that I am not involved in a decision to make a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u321	But then it's gonna be a game of words. A political game, I guess. It is a question of what exactly the role of the Minister has been. I admit it immediately: he probably didn't sit at the table with Sywert to talk about numbers and prices. No, that wasn't his job at the time. I also understand very well that that did not happen. But what has happened is that on a high level this minister has been sent to make a deal with Sywert and his friends. The Minister says that this is content, because I do not want to have a competitive system alongside it. My analysis is that the minister was mainly politically and publicly affected by Sywert on television and that he had to be incorporated into the LCH system for that reason. My analysis is that that's what happened. But it is true that without the intensive push of this minister, that deal would not have come. Isn't that what it's all about? Because if Sywert had called in directly to the LCH what he had done and where he was pushed off by the security of the parking lot, then that deal would not have come. And that deal did come about because this minister kept pushing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u322	I can't put it like that. I did indeed play a role at that time in bringing one of our top officials into contact with Van Lienden. So that has indeed been part of that commitment: not with Van Lienden but with Van Lienden. I also think that I should have mentioned this in that reply. But that doesn't mean I've been involved in a deal. Because the conversation was at that time: beware that there is not going to be an alternative to the LCH; make sure you come to a solution where that does not happen. That's not an order to make a deal. It hasn't been discussed in that way either. So we didn't have that conversation like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u323	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u324	I just want to be as precise as possible, Mr President. I can't help myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u325	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u326	I want to be as precise as possible. What the Minister says is simply not true. I'm not gonna say it again. If you use that kind of dirty quotes and then you say "with a little bit of tolerance it should work; I really hope it works," then you're going to go ahead with a deal to get Sywert to work with the LCH instead of him going on his own. That is what the Minister is doing, and that is more than just bringing people into contact with each other. Then you are deliberately steering on the conclusion of a deal with Sywert. So that is much more than what the Minister has so far acknowledged he has done. I just think you should be honest about that. I don't know what the problem is either. I don't understand why the Minister doesn't just say, "Yes, that's right; I did all that. We're all finally screwed by Sywert and his associates. That sucks. We're gonna try to fix it and get the money back." Why doesn't he say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u327	Because I just want to be honest. I'm trying to go back to my memories of that moment. I'm looking at the apps I traced and the e-mails I got up the table. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan tot deze conclusie komen.]] I know I haven't been involved in a deal. I haven't made a decision to make a deal. I haven't been negotiating. I didn't tell you how to do that. In fact, I've been in touch on April 10th, 11th and 12th. The deal wasn't concluded until ten days later. After that, I was informed. That's what I'm getting back. Maybe I'd have been updated orally one more time. It could be. I don't know. I don't have a memory of that either. But I haven't been involved in a deal. Could this have played a role in the creation of this? Yes, of course. I'm not denying that either. That is why I think I should have mentioned it in the reply. I cannot even see what role this has played in achieving it. So that will really have to be demonstrated by the complete story of the facts. I can't tell you that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u328	Mr Hijink, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u329	How, then, does the Minister explain that in the rest of the correspondence about the Minister's involvement, the officials actually say: "We do not want that."? The chief of the LCH exudes that on all sides and also states that we should not do so, because it is a bad idea, but that that deal is still coming and that officials also tell each other that it is the Minister's need to organise this. How does he explain that, if he himself states that there is no involvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u330	I cannot explain that, because I also need the complete facts. I only know what I did there myself and what I can trace in my phone and in emails. That's what I know. That's what I share with you. Yes, this shows involvement, involvement that has not been reported in the answers to the parliamentary questions you asked at the time. In doing so, I inadvertently sketched an incomplete picture to the Chamber. I apologize for that, because I think it's appropriate. The confusion that has arisen with regard to my involvement, I have caused myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u331	Mr Van Lienden had access to the National Consortium and was rejected. It was a net out of the ground. That was not considered reliable. In principle it was ready and they went to find other partners to go along with it. The influence and involvement of Minister De Jonge has brought Van Lienden back to the table, perhaps for publicity reasons or because they did not want to create competition. The Minister also vividly describes from his memory how things were at that time. Does the Minister recognise that he has been the dealmaker, perhaps not in a literal sense as to the level of the deal or the quantity, but because Van Lienden came back to the table at all and that a deal was still possible? Does he recognize that fact? A simple yes or no suffices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u332	Well, decisive? That was your question in the first place. I don't know. I can't judge that. Looks like it's a long shot, with those few messages. But it is true that at that time I played a role in establishing the contact between one of our officials and Van Lienden. That is indeed the commitment that I believe should have been reported. That's right. I do not know whether that was a decisive factor at the time. That's gonna have to prove it. I can't tell because I don't know what else happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u333	I've been a civil servant myself. If you get lyrics like "I hope we can do it," "we need this man inboard, not outboard" and "we're gonna suffer from this," then that's an implicit assignment to settle it, despite the fact that the top man of the National Consortium had already said he wouldn't want to do it, because it's not necessary? Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u334	I think that's really more nuanced. What I just mentioned to you, based on what I remember from that time, is that we were mainly concerned about the alternative, the alternative air bridge, the alternative LCH. That's what we were worried about. The expectation "go see if anything can be done in cooperation or whatever" was indeed an expectation that has been expressed. That's different from "it has to be a deal" or "there has to be a purchase order," because that would have been it. I just don't remember that. I haven't been involved in that kind of thing. Perhaps that conversation continued in the course of that week, but I was not there. I was there, as you can see again, on April 10th, 11th, 12th. The deal was on April 22nd and on April 25th I was informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u335	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u336	I can only conclude that it is no coincidence that a deal has been made with Mr Van Lienden, because he had already been rejected, but came back to the table by the influence and entrances of Minister De Jonge, as one of the three parties that made a deal of more than 100 million, the only one in this corona crisis. That was because of the influence and direct involvement of Minister De Jonge. In conclusion, my question. Last year this deal was constantly discussed in the media. Parliamentary questions have been asked, Wob requests have been made, specifically about the role of the various US ministers. A factual account has been given, including app traffic, but very limited. How then is it that at that time no call was made to this Minister De Jonge that this was not a complete fact story, that there was more and that his involvement was greater than he admitted then and that he now acknowledges that it is indeed the case? Why wasn't it thought of then: this is not right, this is not right, this is not open and transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u337	I asked myself the same question. Why didn't I read those answers earlier and check whether they were complete enough? My explanation for that... The same applies to the questions I answered to the press at the time. They were like, "Oh, it wasn't my wallet, I wasn't involved in that deal." That was the question at the time: were you involved in a deal? No, I haven't been involved in a deal. If I read back those answers now, I think: it is actually the correct answer to the question, but I should have just added that I had had contact with Van Lienden at the time, but no contact with Van Lienden. I should have said I had contacts about it, but I hadn't been involved in the deal myself. I could have put it that way, and it would have knocked. Now I think... no, I don't think it's complete enough. I apologized for that, too. If I now read back those answers to the questions, I think that element should have been included. But I wasn't attracted to it, not even then, because when I read it, I thought: this is correct. My p.a. It contains the contacts I had with Van Rijn about it and the reason why my p.a. Contacted him is in it. That I also checked with Van Lienden myself at the time whether I should have talked to one of our officials about this to ask them if they were in contact with Van Lienden; that should have been the case. That fourth element is missing here. I do not think that the answer itself is complete enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u338	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Azarkan and then to Mrs Van Esch, Mrs Paulusma, Mrs Tielen, Mr Klaver, but first to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u339	What showed that Mr Van Lienden was able to be a competitor for the LCH?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u340	That was the suspicion based on what he told you. Whether he was, if he was capable, I don't know at all. But that was the message that came to us, as well as the contact with KLM about it. I didn't even think about it at all. At least that was the story; that he intended to. That was extremely clumsy and that is why, in consultation with Van Rijn, I asked one of our officials to contact him. After that, I didn't think about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u341	In the reply so far, that was actually the main argument that the Minister has, namely: he did not want a competitor for the LCH. So I find that a young 31-year-old man who had never sold a mouth cap, who did not have the contacts, who, in my opinion, was totally unable to finance this; in no way. He comes to the Minister with the story, and the Minister says: that scares me so much that I then order him to do something about it. What story did Mr Van Lienden tell, which led the minister to think: this is a serious competitor for LCH and we should keep it in-board, even if it costs 100 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u342	He didn't tell me a story, but you saw the apps he sent. I just thought that should be checked out. I'm gonna say something else. Could it be that something is playing here too? Many MPs have also pointed out what you call Hindsight bias? We all know how it turned out. Everyone feels... That was a question from the VVD: how does the minister actually feel under the deal that was finally closed? Doesn't everyone feel that Van Lienden has made him look like he's been lurking around? Everyone feels that way, I guess. The facts and so on are all being investigated and then we are going to give a very parliamentary correct answer as to how we look back at them as a cabinet. Only of course everyone feels that way. I'm gonna go back to that. I was in this debate with you on a weekly basis. We had the images of northern Italy on the retina. We all spoke to people from care, who looked every day with pinched buttocks at the stock of personal protective equipment and didn't know if they would get enough delivered the same week to do their work in a safe way over the next weekend. That was the situation. That was also the reason why the "buy what you can buy," which we discussed with each other every week, was very much on our retina. That's the way we've been doing it. Then it is often asked: were you afraid of the imagery? Well, not for the image of myself, you know. I'm used to it by now. That's why I don't think "image" is a correct term. That doesn't tell me what it's all about. It is, of course, about a reality which applies in the media and which then also affects the political reality that I am dealing with. More importantly, you will learn from the newspaper and through the media how policies work out in practice. That too is reason to act on the basis of messages. If we got the message that was true not only for Van Lienden... that they had a lead, but could not go to the LCH, for example, we went after it. That's what that whole VIP line was all about. There are 90 political leads in a report from mid-April, as I have seen in preparation for this debate. In my opinion, that was only a fraction of what has actually come to political leads, or VIP leads. In short, the whole atmosphere of that time was: "buying what you can buy. All hands on deck; we need personal protective equipment, the more the better. Don't think you have enough, because it will be too little again." That was the focus of that moment. In the case of Van Lienden this was added: wouldn't there be a competitive air bridge with China, or a competitive LCH or whatever? We couldn't use that. And we said, "Make sure you work together."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u343	Thank you. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u344	The question is what is so special about the fact that Mr Van Lienden has been given that 100 million deal. If you look at his characteristics, you can see that he was indeed in contact as a fellow CDA. So that contact was there. That could have led to the idea of "maybe I don't like it," but let's just say that, in the circumstances of that time, there are still situations and protocols where you don't have to take these kinds of risks. One of those protocols is that you have distanced that LCH and put there professionals who have already assessed that before and have come to the conclusion "with that gentleman we are not going to do business." I suspect they've thought that's what we'll see further... that it's too much hot air. The other element of the CDA colleague, Mrs Van den Berg, is that this minister was like death. He also shows this once: please contact Van Lienden for Nieuwsuur. I see all kinds of apps and Twitter messages now. I understand that this minister says he has nothing to do with the deal. That's because it wasn't his interest. His interest was not so much in the number of mouth caps that would be bought, no, his interest was that he did not want to read from the hand of that annoying Van Lienden on Twitter that this minister's policy was not right. Is that what this minister was afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u345	No. I think it's a good thing you're making this point. This is a question that comes back a lot. Has the imaging been decisive? That is what I am saying: no, that image of myself has not been decisive. I'm really used to ugly stuff about myself in the paper. I still appreciate the nicer pieces, but also with that ugly one I can live on my own. This is about a media reality that affects political reality. Of course, that is the issue. There are many examples of this. Also about how complex it is to run such a crisis in which media logic or media reality constantly influences political and social reality, I can give many examples, actually throughout the crisis. Because that's what the debate was about with your Chamber and I did. Because Van Rijn needed the space to keep doing his job in the department, I was in the debate, here. It wasn't about criticism, but it was about the fact that when someone says in reality, and with it also makes known, "I can't turn with my ideas to get new mouth caps, to that LCH," I have to care, because it's relevant. I will then be asked about this in the debate and I want to be able to give a good answer, so of course that concerns me. Apart from whether or not you engage me in the debate, it matters that reality develops in such a way that it fits in with what it is intended to do. The LCH intended to be a purchasing platform. In the beginning, at the start-up phase, which was very difficult, there was a lot of criticism. So yes, of course we were keen to make that work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u346	In fact, I wanted to refer to the phrase the Minister said that he can't remember. I got the flashback from a year ago and Mr Klaver also indicated that. My specific short question is, and perhaps that is another memory crunch, when the Minister could remember it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u347	What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u348	In response to questions from other political parties, I think this minister just indicated that he was unable to remember the whole communication that has been around Van Lienden. That's what I heard him say. I was curious about it, because I did get the feeling that there must have been a moment in which it was in this minister's memory. I'm curious about that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u349	I use the word "remembrance" because I just want to be honest. I know what I can find out on my phone. I know what I can look into in my mailbox. When the research is finished, you will get a much more complete picture and may prove to be something else. At the moment, I have your Chamber's questions to answer to my involvement. So I have to do it with what I sent you and with my memories. I can't help myself. That's all I've got. What I have just explained is that, when I saw the answers to the parliamentary questions, to which I, of course, read with them at the time, I did not respond to the fact that it was an incomplete answer. No. I thought, "Yeah, this is right." This was indeed the commitment I made through my p.a. I've had it. That was indeed the involvement. So that was a correct answer to the question. I haven't thought about it since. That it was such a deal became a bit known last May, June. The answer to those questions is from 1 June 2021, so I assume it became known in May that the deal was not as philanthropic as Van Lienden suggested. That's when everyone was angry. Then I was asked if I was involved in the deal. Well, I remember, which is, no. That's also the answer I'm giving you here. And after that, that investigation came pretty soon. So after that I also just thought; well, then that's just further figured out. So I didn't go looking for apps with all those players in the department or whatever. No, I didn't. I didn't get into those Chamber questions either. I therefore think that the questions put by the House are not fully answered. I apologized for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u350	That's what you said. Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u351	So in the last two years no one has been there, at least not the minister himself, nor do I understand anyone in the department, who said: gosh, the answers given at the time to those questions were not entirely correct. There hasn't been anyone who thought: that display isn't the way it was. No one who thought: that memory is wrong, because it was definitely different. You didn't find out until this week. There hasn't been anyone in the past few years who thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u352	No. Mrs Van Esch's question is precisely the question I have asked myself in recent days: how could I not have been more complete at the time? The second is that I don't blame anyone for not noticing him or her. I was at those contacts, so it makes sense that I should just know that myself. As a result of last week's publication, I checked my apps, not only the apps with Van Lienden.......................................................................................................................................... And then I'll see that I've been in touch about it. That still makes my memory true that I was not involved in the deal, but that I had contact with them at the time. Of that, I think, when you look at the answer to the question, that it should have just been there. That would have made the answer more complete, including the response towards journalists. Did you get involved in the deal? No, but I could have said: I didn't have any contact with Van Lienden about it, but I did have contact with a number of people in the department at the time. That doesn't mean I was involved in the deal, but that doesn't mean I had any contact. That should have made my answer more complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u353	Mr. Chairman. Just a little more time. I haven't done any interruptions yet, so I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u354	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u355	I get it, but I keep thinking that it's really hard to believe that in those years, there hasn't been anyone who said the answer was wrong. I still find that hard to believe. We have already talked about that flashback from a year ago and things cannot be remembered. I'm sticking with it. I don't get it. Again, no one has been there, not in the last few months and literally not in the last week, not even the minister himself, who thought: hey, that's not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u356	I declare that, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Esch, because quite soon after that commotion, quite soon after answering these questions, new facts turned out to be coming up again. Then Van Ark said: now I want the bottom stone above. It was, I believe, after a debate with your Chamber, or before a debate with your Chamber, that she said: I want the bottom stone above, we are going to investigate everything, we are doing a forensic investigation, we are putting Deloitte on it et cetera. I think everyone thought then: we'll just give all the stuff to Deloitte and then we'll find out how it's been. So I don't think anyone felt the need to check again exactly what was going on at the time. After all, it is very difficult to untangle that and to see what it is all about. That's the reason for the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u357	Thank you. First we go to Mrs.Agema, then Mrs.Paulma and Mr.Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u359	Just a moment for you. There are now two regimes, the corona regime and the old regime. People raise their hands sometimes and sometimes they don't, so that's confusing, as I said before. I think Mrs. Agema has indicated that you can walk to the microphone. We've got a little bit of two regimes mixed up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u360	You're the chairman. You decide the regime. Two regimes aren't convenient. I got up third. You say, "I see it, I write it down." But all of a sudden, people come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u361	I'll let you know in advance. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u362	You just mentioned my name and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u363	You're absolutely right. We're just gonna do it the old way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u364	You're the boss. It's up to you. But then be clear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u365	The corona regime has simply been abolished, let's face it. But if Mrs. Tielen wants to go first, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u366	Then let's agree that after this round, everyone can walk to the microphone. Whoever gets first gets the word. But first, we're gonna finish this. I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma and then to Mrs Tielen. That's pretty much the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u367	And after that, I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u368	Then let's see who's at the microphone. But you are absolutely right, Mrs Tielen, it is not clear with two regimes. We're gonna do it a little more orderly now. I had already warned that the transition to a new system would lead to some chaos, but I think we are actually doing it all very orderly and tidy so far, so there is no criticism of you on my part. Mrs Paulusma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u369	I'd like to touch on what Mrs. Chicken said earlier. I heard the minister say: I sent a few apps and I don't think that's gonna make people walk. I think one app from a minister of civil servants is gonna run. But that then is a difference of opinion and perhaps an opinion. I have another question about something that concerns me very much. I read in the apps that the Minister has had a very bad feeling with Mr. Van Lienden all the time. But I also read that apparently it was a good idea that someone was inside instead of outside. There were other words for that, but let's just call it "inside" and "outside." I would think with my common sense that if you, as a minister, had such a bad feeling with someone, you would say: better outside than inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u370	Maybe we'll get back to that first observation first. In my opinion, I did not say that I do not expect officials to walk when I send an app. There are a lot of officials listening, so I don't want that to get the wrong impression. I just pointed out what that contact was and wasn't about at that stage. Those were the observations I collected from Van Lienden through my political assistant, who called for another reason, but who got back this qualification and observation about the LCH. Of this, I said, in consultation with Van Rijn, that someone should call after them, because you should not want a competitive alternative to be created. Whether that was real, I couldn't estimate at all, but I did think that contact should be made. After that, I wasn't involved anymore. Eventually, ten days later, it came to a deal. That's one. Two. Now I've lost it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u371	The second question was about the bad feeling and "inside" or "outside."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u372	Yes. So that had everything to do with that competitive air bridge, with that competing LCH. I found, "Just work together." Come on! You're not gonna put together a competitive initiative next to each other, are you? Just work together and get out! That was my simple thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u373	Well, that could be a simple thought, or involvement, because that's gonna stay in the air a little bit, but okay. The minister says he did it because of his competitive position. We also read in the apps that during the same period the Minister received a negative opinion from several officials. I'm kind of looking for a match.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u374	This was my intervention, so this was my involvement. Then, under the responsibility of the Minister for Medical Care, that deal was further arrested. Those conversations have undoubtedly been there, but I don't know any of that. In the study it should be properly reconstructed what that has looked like in the end. I have also read in the reconstructions in newspapers and in Follow the Money the qualifications that that official returns. One of the things that has to come out of the investigation is what finally made them decide to make a deal. Why was it said in the end: under these conditions we consider it justified or expectant? I can't tell you that right now. That is precisely why we need this research.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u375	Mrs Paulusma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u376	A short question, because I lost you somewhere halfway. So the Minister was aware of the negative opinion of the officials on this deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u377	I think it is almost impossible that that was Van Rijn. It would not be logical for people to have a separate reporting line on this, at most that I was told because I was at a meeting or whatever. It could have been a coordination meeting in the department. But it wasn't my wallet, and so there's almost no other way than that it was the Minister of Medical Care at the time. The way and under which conditions it was justified, I can't verify any of it. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u378	Nor can I judge the effect the Minister's contact had on the deal. I don't think we're gonna find out today either. That's what the Deloitte report is for. My questions were not about that influence, but about his involvement. I don't think it's quite easy to read, to understand, or to feel, what the Minister meant by his apology. In yesterday's letter he also says: I may not have properly checked the questions that someone else answered. On 1 June 2021, Minister Van Ark also replied to questions from the Chambers of JA21, which simply referred to the app traffic between the Minister and Van Lienden. Mr. Klaver also mentioned the actual questions about the budget. So I want to have a little more understanding of what the Minister really meant, especially after what I asked. What was the reason the minister continued that contact? Did the Minister consider that contact with Van Lienden to be legitimate in retrospect? I felt a lot of pressure reading Mr. Van Lienden's apps. So I can hardly imagine the Minister forgetting it. I also asked: how does the Minister reflect on the term "involvement"? How does he weigh it and how does he reflect on his statements about it in the media? Now I know there will be another block of reflection, but I'm just using this long interruption to ask for it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u379	That was indeed a question you asked in your first term. The question was very precise: what is the reason why the Minister had contact with Van Lienden even after passing on the contact details? And: does the Minister consider that to be legitimate after all? Well, I've never had direct contact with Van Lienden about a deal, so not even after a deal was made. He did send me things, and I sent them to Van Rijn. When did I even make an intervention? That was when he had sent a tweet about masks in home care and the way the inspection was doing it and also that the party would have been offered earlier to the government but that it hadn't done anything about it. Then I thought, "We'll just have to figure out what's going on." Because I just had two things in mind. The inspection and home care and so we had talked in our coordination meeting, so I knew that Van Rijn was in the process of inspection. The other point, of course, is simply not the intention. You asked me here every week in the Chamber: make sure that LCH works properly and make sure leads are picked up. I must be able to say to my conscience that I have taken care to ensure that this has indeed happened. Anyway, this wasn't my wallet, so I checked with Van Rijn whether he also thought there should be a call to see if there could just be a collaboration. Well, I did. That was my involvement, indeed, at the time, but not after that. What I can trace myself is that I hear back on the 25th. On the 22nd, that deal would have been closed, which is how I figured out what I could find out. On the 25th, I'm informed by another top official, then it says "maybe in abundance" that a deal has been made with Van Lienden. I don't know if that was the first time I heard that. I don't know. But at least that's what I can bring back now. I haven't had any contact with Van Lienden myself. A while later, he sends me a whole bunch of apps. He asked if I was interested in that. I just forwarded it to Van Rijn. Then he wanted to call me about it. And then I said, "Oh, man, can I call you from the weekend, 'cause that doesn't suit me at all right now?" I don't think that call was ever there, honestly. I don't remember that, and I can't trace it either. But I don't remember calling him about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u380	I also asked: how should I read the Minister's apology? What are they for anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u381	When I look at the confusion that has arisen about my involvement, I think I should have been more complete about what my involvement was. In the answer to the Chamber of Question 6 by Pouw-Verweij, it was stated that Van Lienden contacted my political assistant in March 2020. It is also called 'political adviser'. That's good, too. It also states that the Minister of VWS has received several messages from Mr Van Lienden to highlight his activities and that those messages have been forwarded to Van Rijn. That's right. It also states that in April there was proactive contact by the p.a. with Van Lienden following a tweet about that care organization and the inspection. Those three things were in there. When I read that, I thought: yes, that's a good representation of that involvement. So that's right. But what I just didn't get into at the time is that I didn't talk about Van Lienden with, but about Van Lienden with, one of the top officials, after I had spoken back with Van Rijn. I should have mentioned that too, and that is why my answer has not been complete. I apologized to your Chamber for having caused this confusion myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u382	I think we're going to Mrs. Agema first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u383	The Minister insists that he has not been involved in the deal. He's holding on! And he will continue to do so for a long time. But if you see it as the purchase of a house, then actually signing the purchase contract is just a small part of the deal. That is the point that is really at stake here. If the Minister says "I wasn't involved in the deal," how can he keep it up when the National Consortium doesn't want resources in the sea with Van Lienden? They have doubts about security of supply and there are others with better conditions. Van Lienden is even working by security guards from the premises! And then comes CDA Hugo de Jonge. They know each other well, that Sywert from Lienden at the CDA and him. They know each other from the program office, from the program office, and you name it. So they know each other well and Van Lienden starts to press and push. And then it goes very fast, because at some point someone says, dot-dot-dot, the following: Hugo, at your request I went to cuddle with Sywert. And of course we all know that by pushing the Minister it is the Minister and not Pietje Puk on the street! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u384	I'm just gonna get some elements out of it anyway. How great that meaning of that contact has been, I can't judge. For that, you really need to know the total complex of the facts. I do think it is relevant, and for that reason I should have mentioned it in the answer to the parliamentary questions. I didn't take sufficient care of that and I apologized for that. I therefore believe that I have already taken up this point and I agree with you. Something else is really going wrong, including in Mrs Agema's first-term contribution. That has a lot to do with calling the CDA, as if that were relevant. In this way, it gives rise to the suggestion, or more than that, because that was simply Mrs Agema's first term statement of favouritism. That whole ugly word "nepotism" was even used. And I'm just throwing that far from me. The party membership is simply totally irrelevant, but really totally irrelevant when it comes to doing business with a department. Always! A crisis or not, it doesn't matter at all. And if you say otherwise, I say through the chairman, you don't know the department of VWS. And then you don't know me, because the accusation that you favor a party mate is a rather toxic accusation. It affects my integrity. That affects the intention with which I do my job. And it's such a poisonous reproach, because you can hardly defend yourself against it either. That Van Lienden is a CDA guy and that De Jonge is also a CDA guy: well, I guess he's favored. Well, no. Just no. A party membership is irrelevant. And that affects me, including in your speech. We have often crossed swords with each other, but such a reproach affects me. I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u385	It is also intended, Mr President, that it should affect the Minister, because perhaps there will be a cog in his head. Sywert van Lienden of the CDA, who knew Minister De Jonge very well, got zero at the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries. They didn't want to go in with him! They had other parties that they considered more reliable. They had doubts about the security of supply. And he was even worked by a security guard from the grounds. And then his CDA-partner Hugo de Jonge gets in the rifle. And then someone writes to you: "Hugo, at your request I went to cuddle with Sywert." It's as ready as a cue that the man who was evicted was thrown out at the CDA's National Consortium Tools, by CDA Minister Hugo de Jonge. They're p.a. Who goes in the back and lays the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u386	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u387	My question is whether the Minister realises that it suddenly saw other parties, who had proven good mouth caps, cancel their deal on the weekend of 11 April. So the deal with Van Lienden that cost 100 million euros of tax money, that should hurt the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u388	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u389	That should hurt him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u390	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u391	That it was made by him, because he was going to push.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u392	You asked your question, Mrs Agema. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u393	No, Mr. Chairman. Just no. The idea, the suggestion, that you could, that you could do that, that you would want to do that, is just a false suggestion and also a poisonous suggestion, because it affects your integrity, it affects the intention with which you do your job. The idea that a department works like this or that a minister works like this or that I work like this, that a party membership card at such a time, in which everyone is panicking in their eyes with "how could we get more mouth caps?', That a party membership card matters at all, that idea, is just a reprehensible idea. And the reproach is a poisonous reproach, because you can hardly defend yourself against it either. What kind of defense could I mention here, which makes you say, "Oh, here it is. No, then it has nothing to do with party politics."? I don't. So you're blaming it, and that's what keeps it sticking. You know that, and that's why you're using this accusation. There's no shred of evidence that any of this could be happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u394	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u395	Mr. Chairman. I understand that Minister Hugo de Jonge is very, very close, he wants to address a simple MP in this way. While this MP is involved in a single way in losing 100 million euros of taxpayers' money and that is the Minister. 'Cause it was his partymate who got zero on the record. They didn't like him, they didn't want him. They had him escorted off the premises with guards at the National Consortium Devices. And then Hugo the Young starts pushing and pushing and if it works it's "good so" and "yeah." That's what happens, while other, honest, companies just got zero on the record. The deal of the company that filed a lawsuit against the state this morning didn't go through on the same weekend, while the RIVM had said "they have super good mouth caps." So if the minister then says "yes, but in the context of all of us need mouth caps," why did that company, which had a location in China, which had proven good mouth caps and when it came to having all the mouth caps we could get... Why was their deal suddenly cancelled and why did Sywert van Lienden from the CDA get that deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u396	I don't know. I wasn't there. That's all under investigation. So I can't answer that. What I can answer is to the suggestion that Mrs Agema has repeatedly stirred up of boyfriend politics. That's an idiotic idea, and I'm far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u397	I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u398	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u399	Okay, but very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have based myself solely on the facts that have emerged in the past period, including in the book Sywerts millions, in the article in de Volkskrant and on the documents we received yesterday. So if Minister De Jonge does this accusation in my direction where I base myself on facts raised by honest journalists, what does that actually say about him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u401	Mr. Van Haga, Group of Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u402	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think the Minister is missing an important ethical point here. He says he's not involved in this deal because he wasn't involved in the negotiations and not in the decision. But in business and in the rest of the world, perhaps outside this minister's experience, things are very different. There's someone called the "dealmaker" or "the oil guy." He usually asks for a commission for that or a bill fairy. That's instrumental for making the deal. So the idea that you stay out of this whole deal because you weren't at the table when the signature was signed is ethically untenable. Of course, Mrs Agema had a fantastic point there. My first question to the Minister is therefore the following. 17 million Dutch people are looking at this. They think: "Well, that minister was just involved, because he was the dealmaker and without him he wouldn't have done it." Can the Minister imagine 17 million people thinking that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u403	I think I've explained that a number of times now. I wasn't involved in the decision-making. I wasn't involved in negotiations. I didn't order it. It wasn't my wallet. So no, I wasn't involved in the deal, but I did get involved. That is what I said: I should have put it better in the answers to the questions that have been asked. I apologized for that, too. Because they asked: has there been any contact with Van Lienden? Well, it's actually pretty neatly described who did have contact with Van Lienden. I wouldn't have done that myself. But I didn't mention that I did say, based on a contact that my p.a. had had: it seems useful to me that everything that p.a. has heard back about the LCH, is being discussed by one of our people with Van Lienden, to see if you can come out together and if you can come to a collaboration. I checked with Van Rijn first, and then I asked the official: go do that. I should have mentioned that. And here's the thing. You're asking me what's going on. Well, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u404	Yet that little push has changed something, that little push that might be trivial in the head of this minister. A choice was made for not the company from Haarlem that had good mouth caps, but for these non-working mouth caps. 100 million has been thrown into the ditch. I don't think we're gonna get out of this at all. The Minister lives in a different reality. He does think that if you make a few calls to people he knows, people who have his phone number and people he's friendly with... I don't care if they're party mates or something. They're people you know. So based on that relationship, you make that connection, and you usually get something for that. And this minister also got something for that, because he was afraid of image damage or someone on the outside would set a different line. So something came back and that deal was made. So that involvement was definitely the case. I have one more question. Minister Helder just mentioned an e-mail address post@hugodejonge.nl. I think that's a little weird. Because it's one thing you say: well, I don't know my password, so send it to the iCloud. But here is a separate external email address for...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u405	I'd like to ask you not to mention people's e-mail addresses. Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u406	It's just in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u407	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u408	It's just been mentioned by the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u409	I just don't want that. Let's just not do that. Please continue to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u410	Okay, this was a mistake from Minister Helder. Well, that e-mail address she then mentioned is an e-mail address specifically created. That's outside the regular system. Then the Minister can't insist that that was because there was no password available? That e-mail address was just made aware. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u411	Mr President, I find it truly difficult to tie a rope to the speech just made by Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u412	Perhaps you could ask one specific question, Mr. Van Haga. I was listening to it, too, and I thought, "What's the question?" So, what exactly is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u413	Well, about the first story, about those dealmakers, we just don't agree, so we close the discussion on that. We have a different ethical framework, and in business this is really different from what it seems to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u414	Yes, and then your question came.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u415	Then came the question. The e-mail address we're not allowed to mention is not an iCloud address. It's an address created specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u416	Why? That's just my private address. I have two private addresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u417	Mr Van Haga, ask your question first. After that, the Minister can indicate if it's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u418	Then I must mention the first word of that address, namely 'post'. It seems to me that you create an e-mail address that starts with that word because you want to receive mail on it. It seems to me that that would be mail from the department. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u419	What kind of movie did I end up in? I think it's very mystical. I'm just gonna try and explain it one more time. I have two private addresses. And indeed, I have used the forwarding to a private address on a regular basis. Sometimes that was iCloud, often that was iCloud. 'Cause did I ever tell you that I love Apple very much? And sometimes it was that other address, that I really already have. I've already done that. I think I've had it for about ten years now. I am talking about the address that I do not mention, but which has now received more than 90 e-mails. I really don't understand what the point is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u420	I'm going to see Mr. Dassen of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u421	I would like to go back to the point Mrs Agema just made. That was the day Van Lienden was evicted from the LCH building. On 25 March Van Lienden went to the p.a. Minister De Jonge said: "Can I call you? The response was, "Yeah, what happened? No, I can't call now." At 17.00 that afternoon Minister De Jonge received the app: "At your request I went to cuddle with Sywert. It's almost a day job. In part, we have managed to reach agreements on cooperation, partly not. Maybe it's getting in the news somewhere. Sywert said he wouldn't. I'll keep you posted." The Minister just indicated that he could not defend himself, but I wonder: what exactly happened between those two moments? Who did the minister contact at the time, after hearing Van Lienden was deported? What was the sense that the minister was getting into that at the time? Then why did he get this message?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u422	I think you're linking two things that didn't come together in my work at the time. "Deleted the building" is a message Van Lienden sent to my political assistant. I cannot remember having been aware of this at that time. I didn't know until later. That's also apparent from my app exchange with my political assistant. It comes later that he tells me that and that I say: oh, I didn't know that either. The moment I asked a top official I could have done so in those terms 'go and make sure that it gets there' was earlier. That was before in time. I believe it was in the first week that I arrived and that Van Rijn also took part. I took office on the 19th, that Thursday. I think the top official in question, who was ordered to get that LCH off the ground, started on that Monday. In that week we sat together a number of times and came by leads. Van Lienden was one of those leads. Even then, the idea was: could you come to something? He wanted to do something with those personal protective equipment. He had ideas about that, too. He'd worked out concrete plans for it. This was one of the leads the top official picked up. In any case, I have not had the two events that you are now connecting together in my working days. It was first the moment with the top official who was working with one of the leads from that consultation. That's one. Only later did I hear from my political assistant that there had apparently been such an issue in Leusden and that he had been sent away there. I don't know about that either. I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u423	Mr. Dassen? No. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen and then to Mr Azarkan and Mr Goudswaard. I suggest that the Minister finish his story afterwards, because I think there have been a lot of interruptions. There may be some small afterburners after the reflection, but after that I really want to suspend for dinner break. First, Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u424	The minister is champion of smokescreens. I'll give him that. During this debate we hear all the time: "I was not about it. It wasn't my wallet. Another was responsible for it." I have a simple question to the Minister: who was continuously the Minister of VWS during Rutte III? Who was the Minister of VWS?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u425	The Minister of VWS was me. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport has changed several times. Bruno Bruns has begun. When he had to resign on 18 March, it became Martin van Rijn. When his job was done, it became Tamara of Ark. So we've had three ministers for medical care and sports. When Tamara had to step down from Ark, I included the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u426	Thanks to the Minister. We then agree on this answer. Does the Minister also agree that, as the Minister of the United States of America, he is the ultimate manager, and that all those "Ministers for" are actually lower in the hierarchy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u427	You should never say that to a "Minister for," especially since I am "Minister for" now! It's not nice to say that at all. It's true that I was ultimately responsible for VWS, but of course you also have a portfolio distribution there. The portfolio distribution is just a decision. That decision shall divide the tasks, portfolios. There is no misunderstanding as to who is responsible for, in this case, the GMT board, i.e. medicines and technology. In the beginning the purchase of the mouth caps was invested. Actually, of course, it was just invested in the field. The department had never done anything with it and suddenly had to think of something on the fly, to do something with it, because of the scarcity. The idea that came up there was to set up the LCH; all the responsibility of the Minister for Medical Care and Sport. Where I had not yet taken over the job of Bruno Bruins, namely the final responsibility for the crisis, Bruno Bruins did all that. Then I took over the leadership of the crisis approach, but the medical care section, i.e. the ic-beds and the personal protective equipment part, was Van Rijn's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u428	Thanks again. We agree on that, too. I welcome the fact that the Minister at least recognises that he has the ultimate responsibility as the Minister of the United States of America. And then there's my last question. Does the Minister understand that if he is the final manager of the VWS ministry, he can never say, for example, if he has a conversation with Sywert van Lienden: yes, I was not involved, because another within my ministry was about it? He's the lead boss; he's ultimately responsible. When he talks about it, he is always responsible and involved in that role alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u429	I've been involved. On the contrary, I should have informed the Chamber more about this involvement; we talked about that. Two: no, I wasn't responsible for making that deal, because that wasn't my portfolio distribution. The fact that you are the boss of the gang in such a department does not mean that you also have the portfolio responsibility, which is simply divided and also simply laid down in a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u430	I have one more question about the fact that the Minister is asking: I have not been involved in the substance. Now the Minister gets a presentation on April 29th. He gets three extensive apps, with all kinds of information about what Sywert can do. That's called backup.pdf, 15 pages. In response, the Minister said: "Thank you. I'm gonna read it right." Why does the Minister indicate that he is going to read that correctly if he should only put Mr Sywert of Lienden in contact with others? After all, his involvement wasn't part of the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u431	Well, I think that's just a friendly response when you get sent something. In fact, I believe that half of The Hague received this pdf. Anyway, that's all to be seen from the investigation. I wouldn't see too much in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u432	Yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u433	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u434	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm still busy. Yeah, well, God. Yes. You kept him on a leash, didn't you? I understand that from here. You answered, but you weren't really going to read it. Have you read it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u435	Well, I don't remember. I really don't know. But I did send it to Van Rijn, I know, because I didn't have to do anything with it. I did send it to Van Rijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u436	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u437	Yes, but this pattern... I can imagine the Minister sending this through in March, when it was made contact. But this is April 29th and the deal is already closed on April 22nd. There's already a delivery. Then Sywert says he wants to do a lot more. Somehow Sywert van Lienden sticks to this minister. In fact, he doesn't settle for the fact that he has to write to another person, because he keeps informing him. He's also sending a whole plan in terms of content. Then the Minister says, "I'm gonna read that right. Greetings." Why did Sywert have the idea that he had to keep sending everything to you every time, I ask through you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u438	I don't know. That's a question I can't answer. I got one of those apps and forwarded it to the people who had to use it. I've sent back a polite response. I think that at that time was a PDF that really had half of The Hague, you know. In my opinion, he has also passed through this House debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u439	Then I'm gonna go to... Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u440	I don't know if this answer is credible, but it's clumsy. You'd say, if you're already busy as Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u441	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u442	My question to the Minister is whether it is not much more logical to say at the beginning of that process: Mr Van Lienden, you can send me a message at any time, but I have brought you into contact and I have done what is in my power and everything else you have to do with others. Why didn't the Minister just tell us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u443	I can't give you an interpretation of my own app right now. I see: thank you, I'm going to read it properly. I think that's just a polite reaction. I know what I did. 'Cause I sent it over. I don't know if I've read it myself. Could be, out of interest. What I do know is that at that time it was an initiative that was really widely shared with many people. I can't look into Van Lienden's head. I don't know why he sent it to me. I think it was very well known that it wasn't my wallet and that I wasn't about it. That is clear from the fact that I was not involved in the first deal and that I was not in the process of creating a second deal or anything. No, it was just not my wallet. I just wasn't doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u444	Thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen has one more question on this last point. Yes, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u445	Thank you. This is a very good question from Mr Azarkan, because this is precisely the point I wanted to make. Why did Sywert van Lienden apprehend you all the time? Because he understands what we understand: you're the lead boss. So he catches you. He assumes that you are the decision-making unit and that it will seep down. Do you understand that this is why he grabs you so much? Because you're ultimately responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u446	I don't know. I don't know why people mess with me. A difficult story, this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u447	Then we go to Mr. Goldsword of JA21. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u448	There is one part that hasn't been reviewed very often, namely the deal of 100 million euros with Van Lienden. At some point, the government decided, like a thunderbolt in the clear sky, to finance the whole deal. My question to the Minister is: does the Minister consider it conceivable that his interference might have contributed in any way to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u449	That actually goes back to the question that has already been asked, namely about the contact that was there at the time; I felt that I should have been more complete about that contact and that I should have mentioned it. Could that contact have been of decisive importance? Mrs. Kuik asked me to do that. That sounds like a long shot to me, but I don't know. That will have to be demonstrated by the entire reconstruction. I don't know what exactly that meant. The question you are adding is: could that have had any significance for the extent to which the initiators were able to obtain pre-financing at the time? Well, I don't know. I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u450	Mr. Gold Sword? No. Then I'd like to ask the Minister to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u451	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A number of groups have been asked to reflect. This reflection also came to the attention of the various questions, but I would like to mention a number of points in conclusion. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to be completely honest with you. I didn't think it was an easy week, and I'm used to it, especially after the last two years of crisis. And yet it has really touched me deeply: the ease with which my intentions and my integrity have been questioned. I too am a man who makes mistakes and has flaws, and I have clearly made mistakes in this case. And that's really not the only time in this crisis. I thank the Chamber for the opportunity to acknowledge these mistakes here today. I would also like to say to you that I am doing my job to the best of my conscience. I'm not running away. I'm not covering anything. I take full responsibility, even when the waves go high. And I'm not alone in that. I see that many around me do in this beautiful political profession. We must fight this mistrust with each other. I have also inadvertently nourished that mistrust. That is another reason why I have chosen to be here today in the debate, to make everything public in anticipation of the investigation, to explain openly and honestly to you what was going on and what I did not do properly and to apologize for it. This also as an antidote to the mistrust that we give far too easy and too much space in our already difficult work. I hope to be able to work with you on a policy of trust in the coming years. I, too, have a role in that. I fully acknowledge that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u452	Thank you. Let me look at the Members to see if there are any short follow-up questions. I really want to suspend dinner at 8:00. If a question has been left to be asked, I will give you the opportunity to do so, but there is also a second deadline. I shall first give the floor to Mr Klaver and then to Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Kikken. And then we stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u453	Mr President, thank you. It's an observation, followed by a question. And it is important to put it before the second deadline, because I want to take this into account later in the suspension, for how we are going to enter into that second period. What I see happening here does not, for me, contribute to the restoration of confidence that is needed. This is what has happened time and time again in those Rutte Cabinets: for a year, push away all the questions about information from you, give half-baked answers or just untruthful answers; at the moment the pressure gets too high, send information to the Chamber, and say sorry for part of the action. I just wrote the sentence, really: "I wasn't involved, but I did have involvement." And I am also willing to work from our side to restore confidence, because distrust here in this Chamber and in society is a poison. But this minister is making this extremely difficult. Just be clear. Not in a little bit, "I should have done a little better." You were involved in that deal. You have ensured that it has been achieved. You've put civil servants to work. And I want to understand the circumstances, but you're walking away from them while the evidence from these apps is stacking up, which I find reprehensible. That is why I would like to make one last appeal: think very carefully before you close this deadline, which you would like to say to the Chamber. And I want to give you: be equestrian. Don't apologize to me. Don't say "I had involvement, but I wasn't involved." You were involved in this deal. Admit it. That could help restore confidence, nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u454	I very much agree with Mr Klaver: distrust is indeed poison in our profession. It's piercing our trade, it's piercing politics, it's piercing society. And it destroys so much more than we love. That is a true word, so I very much agree. That is also why I found that I had to contribute, here today, to regain that confidence, because of the extent to which I contributed to the mistrust that had arisen after last week's messages came out and that confusion had arisen: yes, but what degree of involvement has he had? But I felt I should be completely honest, completely open towards your Chamber regarding my involvement. This is without prejudice to the fact that I do have to be honest about this, and I have to outline what is going on. Was I involved in that deal? No. In a decision that led to a deal? No. When negotiating a deal? No. Haven't I had any involvement at all? No, of course you can't say that either, because that is what the contacts as they have been and haven't been reported. And I do not think that is correct; I felt that I should have informed the Chamber more completely last year. I apologized for that. I hope that Mr Klaver will also see and consider that I am serious about restoring what I did not do right. Can I, in Hindsight, fake a greater commitment, because that would be easier for me now? For I almost get the idea that Mr Klaver says: if you say that you were involved in that deal, well, then you are off the hook; then we believe you again. But I just have to be honest. Was I involved in a deal? No. Did I have a greater involvement than one could have seen from answering your parliamentary questions at the time? The answer is yes. And that is why I am saying here today: I should have done more, better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u455	Thank you. Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u456	Mr. Chairman. The point of mine is the pattern. The pattern that is emerging in the previous cabinet, and now again, by constantly, for as long as possible, putting everything out for you, not giving answers, not to the Chamber, not to journalists; and at the moment when it really gets too hot under your feet, then giving that information to the Chamber at once, and doing: yes, it was not quite good, but it was also not that bad. That's what I'm talking to you about. If you had been the first person to do this, I can imagine. If this had happened before last April's 1st debate. We then made a deal as a chamber that we would never let it happen again. Never again! We will never let it happen again that a ruler does not give the information the Chamber needs when it is needed. And I weigh it so heavily. If you don't think you've been really involved, you shouldn't say that either. I'm not asking you to do that. I'm telling you, I don't see it that way. I see that differently from the fact complex as I have seen it here today. I think it is my responsibility to make that clear to you during this period: that you were indeed involved in that deal. If you say "it wasn't," I'm not asking you to say so. But I would point out that, on the basis of the facts that have emerged today, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u457	I think the Minister has just responded. I now give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB. Then Mrs. Kuik, Mrs. Agema, Mr. Azarkan and Mr. Omtzigt. We're doing an interruption in two and very briefly. I hope you understand that, too. So no long introductions. Just a quick question!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u458	Here it really becomes clear why the Netherlands has no faith in politics. People who let their hearts speak in the cabinet, who tell the truth, are being sent away. I call Mona Keijzer "While people withhold that information and do not tell the truth, they must remain. That is the big problem in the Netherlands. That is what I mentioned in my speech. My question to the Minister is: how can this Chamber ever trust this Minister again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u459	I refer to what I said in my introduction: this is why, although it is a matter of state law, I would like to have the debate with you. I want that because I see that questions have arisen. One wonders: has this minister been open, honest about his involvement at the time? When I read back the answers, I also noticed that they were not complete. So I also felt that I should share that with your Chamber, that I should be more complete about my involvement at the time and I also felt that I should apologize. And I wanted to do that by being present in your Chamber and here in this debate and making public all the apps that were sent to Deloitte at the time, in anticipation of the investigation. That's even the apps with my political advisor. I don't think that's ever happened in Dutch history. But that is precisely what I wanted to do in order to show that I would very much like to be completely open and honest. In this way, I want to contribute to the restoration of trust. In your direction, too, I say that trust is the most important thing we have as politicians. You lost it much faster than you regained it. So we must also be very careful. We deal with that often, I think, way too careless. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u460	Finally, Mrs Van de Plas,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u461	Finally. The last question I asked in my contribution has not been answered. I asked the Minister a very clear, direct question: what does the Minister himself think? Does the Minister himself think he can still remain a minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u462	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u463	I started this debate by saying that it is not just about the content of the deal, but also about the confidence that society can have in politics. I have said that the Cabinet and the Chamber have a role to play in this. I ended with the question: how will Minister De Jonge proceed in the future? What makes, also on the basis of the debate, that we can have sufficient confidence in that? Does the Minister understand that I still have that doubt? When we ask him if he's been involved, he says, "No, involvement is something else you should read. When I ask the Minister whether he sees that he has had a very crucial role in the conclusion of this deal, because Mr Van Lienden was already off the table and came back to the table because of the involvement of this minister, even though he was literally expelled from the premises, he says: well, I cannot conclude. If we ask hard questions, he'll say no memory. My question is again and Mr Klaver also said: what makes the essential difference between yesterday and tomorrow? What anchor does the Minister put before us to have that confidence in him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u464	That's an intrusive question. I think I started by saying that I wanted to be completely open and honest in the direction of your Chamber. However unusual it may be for some people to explain what you have done in a previous cabinet period, I have valued your contribution as a contribution that indeed affects confidence and thus confidence in my current role. In this way, I felt that I should clear the air with your Chamber rather than that the investigation could have been completed. Of course, it's up to you. I have done what I could to do about it today, namely to exercise total openness by even sharing all the apps and all the e-mails ahead of the investigation with your Chamber and explaining what I remember. Of course, this makes me very vulnerable, because it may well be that the research will reveal something else. I don't know. By doing that, I'm making myself very vulnerable. I wanted to do that, precisely to explain my side of the matter and to make my maximum contribution to that confidence. Whether I finally cleared the air in your direction is up to you at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u465	One short question, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u466	Fine, Mr. Chairman. After that deal, with 100 million tax dollars gone, it tastes like much more at CDA's Sywert van Lienden. He had made a very big plan that he wanted to provide the whole society with mouth caps. Well, when CDA'er Pieter Ommzigt went to visit him on April 24th. He sat there for hours. A few days later, he left that plan for another million mouth caps even in the Tower. The Minister starts pushing again towards Van Rijn: why only 40 million and not 120 million mouth caps from Van Lienden? The question I would like to ask is this. That plan was sent in the Minister's papers. He sent us that plan. But he sent two different versions of it. In one of these versions, the Minister has painted black: "We will be happy to offer that plan at the request of dot, dot and dot." At the request of dotje, dotje they have made changes. And that other version doesn't say that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u467	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u468	My question to the Minister is as follows. Probably doesn't want to say who's dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot-dot. But can he say that he is not a speckle, a speckle himself, and that at that time the MP Pieter Ommzigt isn't a speckle, either?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u469	I don't know. I need to figure this out. I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u470	That's what I like to hear in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u471	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u472	And I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u473	No, let's do one...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u474	I have one more point, Mr President. I asked what happened to getting the $100 million back. Minister Helder has not yet responded. Maybe she can do it so soon after the deadline...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u475	In the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u476	No, in the first term. Perhaps after De Jonge's term she can explain what has been done so far to bring back the EUR 100 million we have all lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u477	That's what we're gonna do in the second term. Mr Azarkan, one question, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u478	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister recognise, at the end, that he has informed the Chamber incompletely and immemorially?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u479	It hasn't been complete. That's exactly what I said. It hasn't been complete, because I found...A number of elements are well named in that letter of Parliament; that's all evident from the apps. But that one element... That is not so much the contact with Van Lienden, which was asked for. That has been answered correctly. But for the sake of completeness, I should have mentioned this: I have also been in contact with officials in the department myself, as far as Van Lienden is concerned. I should have mentioned that. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u480	Thank you. We have thus almost reached the end of the first term of the ministers, because there is another question from Mr Omtzigt. I realized that just in time. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u481	Thank you. Just in time. I had the question whether there was any discussion in the cabinet at any time about this matter or about other matters related to corona purchases or to Wob requests, not to provide information to the Chamber or to the Wob people, those who have been wobbled. Was that put back in the cabinet to make decisions on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u482	No, I say. But I also realize, as I give this answer, that it is actually a responsibility that is no longer mine. What I could do here is explain my role in this deal. This would suggest that I answer for the VWS portfolio, which I no longer manage. So I don't think I can answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u483	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u484	In the cabinet are all ministers. It would be quite exceptional, especially after what has been said about a new administrative culture, because my final question was: what does the cabinet think of this new administrative culture has come to pass, in the sense of simply making what has happened actively public? But I just ask: has there been a discussion in 2021 or early 2022 not to send certain documents to the Chamber or not to the press related to corona?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u485	I'm really going to object to that. This is not state law. This is a question related to the VWS portfolio. I don't own the VWS portfolio anymore, I don't control it anymore. So this is a question you're asking in terms of... Mr Kuipers and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u486	I think we should do this at another time. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting, including a dinner break, until 8:45 p.m. Mr Omtzigt has asked a number of questions, including to the other minister, about the Wob, so perhaps there will be some interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u487	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second term of office. I give the floor immediately to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u488	One minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u489	A minute sounds long. I call Mrs Kuiken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u490	Mr. Chairman. It has been said repeatedly in this debate: it is not about the content of one deal, but about the confidence that society and the House of Representatives can have in the cabinet and in individual ministers. That confidence has been under pressure for years and, I think, reached a low point last April. Each time we are looking for a way up to restore that confidence, and every time things come along that make us disappointed again, that patterns repeat themselves, when we don't want that with each other. You have to prevent suspicion and build trust, but that doesn't mean you don't have to. Mr. Chairman. It is difficult for me, but Minister De Jonge has shown, both in the Chamber and in the media, that he has only a limited learning capacity to be honest. He has not been honest about his precise involvement in the mouth cover deal, he has not been timely with information and not entirely with information, while he has been asked for a year to put that information on the table, for a year he has been asked for his precise involvement. Then a discussion about exactly what that involvement means doesn't help. That is why, as I said with a heavy heart and heart, my group decided to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has not been fair about his involvement in the mouth cover deal and has not informed the Chamber in a timely and complete manner;]] [[declares confidence in the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan, Mr Hijink, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Esch, Mr Agema, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22805-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u491	Mr. Chairman. I spent two years fighting all the dishonesty and all the weirdness. I read an anthology in some sort of rap tempo. I hope everyone could follow that. At the end of the day, this debate really did not produce anything that would make us realize that this minister can be trusted. Don't be involved in a deal while you're just the dealmaker. A hundred million euros of our taxpayers' money has been thrown away. The deal was based on private e-mail and there was a lie. I myself had announced that I would table a motion of censure, but I would like to endorse Mrs Kuik's motion and I very much hope that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u492	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think everyone agrees that we all wish that that terrible deal with Sywert van Lienden hadn't come. It's a shame there have been so many CDAs involved in this debacle. I also hope that the CDA will learn from this and understand from the CDA that in times of crisis it is not allowed to favour one's own boyfriend over other suppliers who also had better products.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u494	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u495	Mr. Chairman. The Minister informed the Chamber incorrectly and too late. The Minister has misguided the population and journalism. The minister has his role, his involvement when it comes to how the deal with Sywert and his associates came about, even during this debate trying to make it smaller than it is. Because if we ask ourselves whether this deal would have been there without the involvement of this minister, then our impression is: no. Then that deal wouldn't have come. That deal just came through because of the involvement of this Minister De Jonge. That is why we have co-signed the motion of censure. I also made a big point earlier about the use of private e-mail by directors. On that point, I would like to table the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of private mail by directors is currently seriously discouraged in relation to data and cyber security of (confidential) documents and correspondence;]] [[Whereas the use of private mail may also prevent data and correspondence for reconstructions in investigations;]] [[calls on the Government to advise directors not to use private mail to convert it into a duty to always work through government-facilitated (mail) systems, and to inform the Summer Recess Chamber about the progress of this process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink, Mr Van Esch and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22805-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not pretty. It's not the new élan either. It's not the new governance culture. The previous cabinet resigned because the image, its own position and the political outcome were more important than informing this Chamber. We're a year and four months away. The government would become more transparent in order to restore citizens' confidence. How then is it that an information request is made here from the Chamber four or five times, but that this is not carried out by the Cabinet? How can it be that Wob requests are stopped, that judgments of the courts are not respected and that all kinds of appeal procedures do not open up cases? Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary democracy is also too vulnerable to make it dependent on the individual choices of directors. To my surprise, we did not receive information we had asked for until Hugo de Jonge decided that we could. For me, that is the well-known Ruttedoctrine. Governance culture, lots of word games, occasionally lying and throwing it on a bad memory, often with half an excuse. That is too thin, and that is why I support the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u497	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u498	Mr. Chairman. It was a solid debate. I would like to thank the directors for their reply and for the debate they have held. In the declaration of government, I said that mistakes can be made and mistakes can be made. If you make mistakes, admit it. Share that. Don't wait until the very, very last moment and until there's really no other way. That's exactly the old governance culture. That is exactly what we wanted to deal with in the 1 April debate last year, all of them. We said, "We don't accept it anymore, we don't do it anymore." That is why my group supports the motion of censure. We see a pattern here: for a year don't answer and then give information at the very last moment. And not being equestrian in the debate, but pointing out where it was wrong at a small point. And the highlight today was: I had involvement, but I wasn't involved. I also have a message for Minister Helder. I was honored to have the first debate with this minister here in this Chamber. But I would like to point out to her that, as far as I am concerned, the way that happened was the last time. The Chamber must always be informed. Article 68 is not an option, it is a duty. The fact that she did change her mind when Minister De Jonge wanted information to be shared, we charge her. We really want to ask her never to do this again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u499	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Esch, Party for Animals. After Mrs Van Esch Mr. Goudswaard arrives, because Mr. Dassen joins later. Then Mr. Goldsword knows. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Distrust is poison in our profession. That was about the entire reflection of the Minister for Housing that I asked for in my first term. As far as we are concerned, this is not a reflection, but an appeal to the Chamber not to dismiss the Minister. Instead of dealing today with the oh so urgent climate crisis, with the housing crisis or with the victims of the Tax Office, we have been busy all day with the minister who used the plenary to save his ministry. I had a debate today on our environment and I was unable to do so. That debate was about how we can have a healthier environment and how we can reduce the human impact on our nature. Instead, I have witnessed the classic Rutte defense for hours with the entire Chamber. As far as we are concerned, it looks something like this: apologize for a small, almost technical error, but have no active reminder of that fundamental error of systematically not informing the Chamber. And then create noise, a lot of noise, answer questions that have not been asked and philosophize for a long time about the meaning of a word. As far as we are concerned, that is precisely the poison of mistrust. On behalf of my group, I have signed the motion of censure. Not only does mistrust apply to this minister, but it is above all distrust of the way in which he is accountable. The way we know, among other things, from the 1 April debate and on which we have agreed not to do so anymore. Unfortunately, we have seen today that this is still not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u501	Thank you. Then we go to Mr. Goldsword, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u502	Mr. Chairman. How much value does our people's representatives have? This fundamental question in the light of the interference of Minister De Jonge with the mouth cover deal and the way in which this Chamber has been informed about it, raises this debate above the Hague issue. State-law stuff the country doesn't care about. I don't care. And as a newcomer, for the first time, I have felt the resistance of coalition parties that are massively closing ranks. Not our problem, that's how I experience it. But not informing this Chamber in good time, incomplete and incorrect, is a problem for the entire Chamber. If I describe the situation as well as possible, I come to the conclusion that Minister De Jonge has a lack of openness and has also shown this. His involvement in Van Lienden's mouthcap deal is undisputedly greater than he pretended. That should have been on the table much earlier and not just under pressure from investigative journalists and the Public Access Administration Act, moreover, at the end of a crucial debate on this issue. Lack of openness is deeply about trust. Trust stands or falls with attitude. In this debate, Minister De Jonge's attitude remains one of a study of elusiveness, of an inimitable semantics. My group therefore does not like the fact that Minister De Jonge determines the framework of Deloitte's research and of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u503	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u504	I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman. We do not have the 5.5 million pages of the forensic auditors' report in our hands, but we already have enough in our hands to make a balanced assessment of our confidence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u505	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u506	Madam President. The SGP found it an uncomfortable debate, as we have already indicated in the first term, because it is, first and foremost, not, in our opinion, state law as it should be. Secondly, because we are waiting for an important, extensive investigation into the mouth cap deal. We do not yet have that at our disposal. That is why, as far as we are concerned, the debate is now only an intermediate position and not a final assessment. The Minister for Long-Term Care, Minister Helder, would like to stress the importance of ensuring that the investigation is made available without further delay. In addition, let it be a strong encouragement to the whole cabinet for transparency and understanding its importance, in particular in order to strengthen trust and prevent mistrust, which as a poison can have such a effect. The Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning has acknowledged that he should have informed the Chamber more fully earlier. We support that. His involvement did not formally consist of responsibility for the conclusion of the deal, but he played an unmistakably role in its creation. We will also wait and see if we can finally appreciate the importance of these interventions. That was my second-term input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u507	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u508	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the two rulers for the answers. I would also like to thank Minister De Jonge for the apologies that have been made. I would like to ask Minister Helder specifically, also in connection with Mr Van der Staaij, whether the inquiry can be brought to the Chamber as soon as possible. That's enough for the CDA. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u509	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u510	How many interruptions did you actually use today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u511	You probably counted it. Then you've seen that I didn't interrupt today. I think that in the interruptions I have had with the Members of Parliament, many opinions and opinions have already been expressed by the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u512	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u513	We have a big problem with the government's performance today. But I may have a bigger problem with the actions of this coalition group. This is not just about exchanging opinions, but also about controlling the cabinet, as we all do here: asking questions, critical questions about how something happened. As I said, you had your opinion ready in your first term. It didn't matter what they'd say anymore. I find that really disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u514	Mr. Klaver assumes that we already had our opinion ready. That is not the case. Of course, we had our own observations and our interpretations of what we saw. But I have also repeated several times that we believe that it is absolutely impossible for the information we have received in the past few days to arrive at the Chamber so late. It could have prevented a lot of misery, a lot of discussion here and a lot of mistrust, if that had happened before. That is what the Minister has explicitly said, and he has apologized for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u515	According to Mrs Van den Berg, many problems could have been avoided if the information sent to the Chamber in recent days had been sent to the Chamber earlier. When it comes to the interview with Mr. Lambie at RTL on June 5th, he asked another question. That question to the Minister was: did you insist that Van Lienden get the deal the way he got it? His answer was "no." On the basis of all the information we have received over the last few days and the last few days, must Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA conclude that this is a lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u516	That is not the way we see it. I heard Mrs Agema say the same, but I couldn't interrupt her when she interrupted the minister. She draws certain conclusions: these are the facts we've gotten, which happened to be a CDA man and that was a CDA man, so it's just a CDA clique that this has done with each other. That is absolutely not the case. I already told Mrs Agema this morning that two years ago, in the depths of the crisis, all leads were succeeded by anyone or any other party, even if it had not been of any party. The Minister also indicated what was going on with Mr. Van Lienden, namely that he was constantly threatening to set up a competitive organisation. So in China we would have had two organisations on behalf of the Netherlands who had been negotiating to pay the highest price for mouth caps. I simply do not agree with the conclusions drawn by Mrs Agema on the basis of the documents we have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u517	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u518	It's the facts. While Sywert van Lienden was sent by a guard of the territory of the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries, he eventually came back into view. Mr Lambie's question was: did you insist on Lienden getting the deal the way he got it? The young man said no. Over the past few days, evidence of how he was pushing and pushing has come in, how he put everyone in a position to get in touch with Van Lienden. And Mrs Van den Berg insists here that this "no" is not proof of lying. It's too embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u519	Mrs. Agema says the Minister has been pushing for contact. Mrs. Agema is right about that. The Minister saw, once again, that this competing organisation would really not harm the interests of the Netherlands. But the Minister has not been involved in what would be the solution. That couldn't have been a deal, a cooperation agreement or a whole other deal. The minister just insisted on talking to that man. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u520	No, no, no, Mrs Agema, we are not going to repeat the debate. It's the second term now. I have given you extensive time in the first term, so I am going to Mr Van Houwelingen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u521	I think that the opposition, from the left to the right, is quite united in expressing a disapproval of the government's actions. I suspect the CDA is not going to support the motion of censure. What should have happened here, or how could the debate have gone on in such a way that you might have supported such a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u522	As-questions I never answer. Speculate, I don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u523	The Minister has indicated that he has misinformed the Chamber and has been prematurely informed. How does the CDA's group view this from a constitutional point of view and the role of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u524	We, too, as CDA, believe that the Chamber simply needs to be properly informed. Article 68 has been mentioned here on a regular basis on the obligation to provide information to the Chamber. We can only fully endorse that. That's what went wrong here. The Minister himself acknowledged that, and he apologized for that. So the question is: how are the error and the seriousness proportionate to supporting the motion of censure or not? With the debate we have had today, with all the Minister's reactions and his apologies, the CDA concludes that that is enough for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u525	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u526	It's not about the deal with Sywert. It is a question of whether the Minister shared the information requested at the right time and how he spoke in the media. You say that the Minister has misinformed the Chamber, he has said'sorry', and it is ready for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u527	Mr. Azarkan is right to say that this is not about the substantive deal. I've said that as a CDA, we're either just gonna feel bought, or we're gonna be lurking around, or whatever you want to call it. This is still dealt with in detail in Deloitte's report and perhaps also in the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We looked at what was going on today. We should have had that information sooner. In fact, we think that the whole debate today with all the information and apologies in this situation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u528	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. We're going to see Mrs. Tielen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u529	Mr. Chairman. The debate for my group today was about the involvement of Minister De Jonge and how he reflects on the way in which he has spoken about this recently. The debate was also about what we can expect as a Chamber and what we can demand with regard to information from the Cabinet. To begin with, I say I've heard a lot about that. I also think that, as a Chamber itself, we should try to deal better and more clearly with each other in this respect. For example, the word "blocking" has been mentioned many times recently. That's actually before we see what we need together. I therefore believe that, as a Chamber, we have a role to play in ensuring that this obligation to provide information can also be properly filled in. A lot has been said about the involvement of Minister De Jonge in the deal. I have heard some reflections on this and, in my opinion, they were honest answers. On the Minister's influence on the final deal, I would really like to read further in Deloitte's report. But at the moment, my group is confident that something like this will never happen again to the Minister. I think that's the measure we need to look at. So we have another debate on the deal itself and the role of Van Lienden following the Deloitte report. In this respect, I welcome Minister Helder's undertaking that the facts report will also be sent directly to the Chamber. Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Deloitte Forensic & Dispute Services conducts research into the procurement of personal protective equipment, including the agreement with Relief Goods Alliance;]] [[Considering that the publication of the first partial investigation, which monitors the agreement with Relief Goods Alliance, has been delayed and that the lead time of this process depends on the cooperation and response rate of relevant actors;]] [[Considering that in June 2021 the government already indicated priority for the investigation with the deal with Relief Goods Alliance;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to produce the first partial report with sufficient time for the summer recess of 2022, including cabinet response, so that the Chamber can debate this, and if this proves impossible to balance the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Tielen, Mr Paulusma, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22805-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u530	There were too many English words in this text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u531	Thank you. Then we go to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union. Oh, there's another interruption by Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u532	I heard Mrs Tielen say in the first term that she also doubted whether or not this minister could have remembered it. I heard her say that. In this second term, I would like to know what Mrs Tielen's reflection on that is. Does she believe this minister at the time he indicates that she can't remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u533	Mrs Van Esch refers to my little interrupting debate with the Minister. I have listened carefully and also looked in the eyes of the Minister, as I said. I had the impression that he gave a sincere answer and also told me a bit more about the period in which he had app traffic with Mr. Van Lienden. I value what the Minister has said about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u534	Thank you. What did I say? Thank you? It's been a long day! Mrs Bikker, Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u535	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that my group shares the inconvenience expressed by Mr Van der Staaij on this day, on this debate and on this state-law novel. I am not saying that because I would not understand the Minister's assessment, but because I think it is a complicated precedent. Fortunately, as far as I am concerned, Minister Helder has made it clear that this is a one-off and that we are doing it this way once. Of course, there are still a lot of questions about the mouth cover deal itself. When was it clear that this was an e.g.? When was there any clarity about the quality of the mouth caps? In addition, the Deloitte study with a very large number of documents still has to give a complete picture. This is a moment in time in that respect, but not yet the moment when you can have the full judgment on exactly what happened to that deal. The minister apologized for contacts that were there, but he hadn't reported. That's what I'm attached to. I found it complicated that it came so late. That is what I said and the Minister has reflected on it. It remains that my group would have liked to have seen it as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. It is true that in this house, but certainly in a ministry, mistakes are made in crisis time. I don't think the minister ran away from that either. He's acknowledged that in equestrian terms. And then it is so important that this is widely admitted, that it is not hidden and that you do not run away from it! I thank the Minister for the apologies he has made. I am convinced that this will happen in future and that these mistakes will be admitted as soon as possible. And that is something my group expects from the whole cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u536	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u537	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The former VWS Minister apologized tonight for the structural use of his private e-mail and for not reporting to the Chamber and the media of his involvement in Van Lienden's deal. And those excuses are in order. As far as we are concerned, the struggle remains the moment, but the apologies are appreciated by my group. As unusual as it may be under state law, it is a good thing that he has given us a text and explanation here today. We will therefore not support the motion of censure. However, the last word on this issue has not yet been said as far as my group is concerned. There is much more to be said about these and similar deals. A bunch of apps and the Minister's statement don't tell the whole story. The independent research carried out by Deloitte must therefore continue to wait to draw real conclusions. There are still plenty of questions, and my group is particularly concerned about whether and how the Van Lienden deal is different from the other deals of EUR 100 million or more than EUR 100 million. As far as we are concerned, the results of the investigation must be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible, and that is why I am voting in favour of Mrs Tielen's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u538	Surprise. We can't judge the total deal yet. That's right, because that's what we need the investigation for. That's what we've all said here. But the question before us today is: is the Chamber well informed? If I understand you correctly, you say no, the Chamber is not well informed. Why don't you draw a line?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u539	I mentioned in my text that we appreciate the apology that goes with it, but that the last word has not yet been said for us. We need it to take the research results before we come to any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u540	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u541	That's a weird reason, isn't it? That investigation is about the legality of this deal. Was Van Lienden favored? Have the rules been followed properly? What happened here? Today we are discussing whether the Chamber has been properly informed. You say the Chamber is not well informed. You, of all my fellow Members, were most definitely in favour of this: the Chamber is not well informed. You won't need Deloitte's research for that at all. You can judge that now. Do you not agree with me that we as the House of Representatives should move in together, that if we are not fully informed, we should not be informed in time, only at the very last moment, and if there is an apology on a piece of what this Minister has done, we should go through and say: we do not accept this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u542	That is exactly what my group is doing, and that is why we need to hear the rest of the research. For now, we'll settle for the Minister's apology.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u543	The D66 group has put on very big pants, even in election time, about transparency, the new governance culture. I know that Mrs Paulusma's party leader said about Rutte: I had not stayed. I think that's a standard she's set. Are all those fine words written down, which many voters voted for, to be reduced to: sorry, excuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u544	No, those beautiful words can't be reduced to something very small. Those fine words are about carefully making your decision, taking all the knowledge to you in order to reach those well-considered decisions and to be able to explain that well. That's what I'm doing here tonight. We very much want the results of this research and a lot faster than has been promised so far. On that basis, we shall draw conclusions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u545	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u546	This is not about Deloitte's research. This is about a minister who misinformed the Chamber. He'll report it himself. Who did not do so in time, who misinformed journalists. That is what this is about, and that is exactly the administrative culture that D66 says: we think that is very bad and we want that to change. My question is: are all these fine words and actions that you are asking for to be dealt with by "sorry, sorry"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u547	I think Mr Azarkan and I are not going to agree. For us, an apology is important. I said something about timing. I still believe that we should have been better, more careful and previously informed, but we see that in connection with the results of the research and we await that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u548	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u549	Mr. Chairman. I do not really know whether to do so now, but I am going to table a motion of censure and I would like it to be voted by roll-call. I now make this request to the Chamber, whether we can also vote by roll-call on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u550	Would you like to vote on that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u551	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u552	Then I will look at the colleagues to see if there is any objection. There's no objection to that. Then today, in addition to Mrs Kuik's motion, we are going to vote on your motion. So we are going to vote on two motions today and we are going to vote on the rest of the motions on Tuesday. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u553	I do not need to vote by roll call on my motion. I'd like to have said that here. That's a wish of other parties, not my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u554	Yes, correct. That is a wish of Mr Van Haga. Go ahead, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u555	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning also misinformed the Chamber in his role as Minister of VWS;]] [[whereas the Minister for VRO, despite denying this, was involved in the mouth mask deal with Relief Goods Alliance B.V.;]] [[Whereas this process has caused serious damage to the restoration of public confidence in the government and in the confidence of the House of Representatives in that minister;]] [[rejects the action of the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22805-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u556	This is gonna raise some questions. So I hear signatories who are under both a motion of censure and a motion of censure. Then I wonder what the difference is between this motion and the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u557	A motion of censure is just a little less harsh. With a motion of censure, you're really gonna give up trust. In a motion of censure, you reject the behavior. It could be easy for the motion of censure to fail. There is always the chance that Members of Parliament will say: well, I think a motion of censure goes too far, but a motion of censure is justified, because yes, I do reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u558	I notice that lately there has been a lack of clarity or lack of clarity about the status of a motion of censure. In particular, the question is whether the authors of a motion of censure also mean that the rulers could not, in fact, but resign, yes or no. What is the interpretation of the first author of this motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u559	Well, in a motion of censure, I don't think I can force the Minister to resign. That's up to the Minister. That is what we saw in the debate on Afghanistan last year. There was also a motion of censure at the time. One minister said at first she wouldn't leave, and another said, "I'll leave." That's up to the Minister. Yes, it could be the Minister's concern that he says: then I quit. It's not for me to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u560	Thank you. You wanted to file another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u561	That's right. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is in charge of the Deloitte study on the so-called "mouth cover deal";]] [[noting that the former VWS Minister is one of the persons involved in this investigation;]] [[Whereas this at least creates a risk of conflict of interest and is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure so that the Chamber becomes the client of external investigations into the conduct of the government when the government itself has a conflict of interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22805-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u562	Mr. Chairman. A year ago, I was hoping for a newer governance culture. I wasn't hoping any more mistakes would be made. I make mistakes myself. Things you'd do differently in retrospect. I was hoping that mistakes would be told a little more egalitarianly. Although I have little time, I would like answers to the following questions. This is important. One. What court rulings on Wob requests are not being implemented at the moment? Two. Has in the cabinet, in connection with a Wob request or a Chamber question related to corona, decided in the past year not to provide information to the author of the Wob request, or not to provide it to the press? So it's a cabinet decision. Is that what you've been talking about? This would not happen again, as has been said in connection with the surcharge scandal. Finally. There was one more question. Yes, of course my name was mentioned in the document left with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u563	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u564	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a sad day, especially when you consider that we've only discussed one deal. It was only about one deal that took place in this kind of foggy consortia. In this case, it was the LCH, the National Consortium Tools. This is completely excluded from the scope of both the Compatibility Act and the Archive Act and the Wob. As far as we're concerned, there's really the scandal. There is therefore a total lack of transparency, which we do not think is an excuse. It is a violation of the principles of good governance. In addition, there have been all kinds of other violations. That's what we've been discussing. A private address has been used, and the Room is incomplete and informed too late. As far as we are concerned, however, the key point is that the Minister continues to deny that he is somehow involved in these deals. I've written down a few gems. He was "involved," but there was "no involvement." Mr Klaver just said that. Another quote: "I don't know why people send me apps either." Apparently, that just happens. And, "I did not lie; I had only no active memory of it." This is actually indicative of the wrong governance culture. It is therefore clear that we will also support the motion of censure that has been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u565	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year ago we were here too, with the debate on 1 April. I must honestly say that I also have the inconvenience that has just been expressed by other colleagues. That is also an inconvenience that we have been working here for a year on information and integrity issues, while this week the scientists on the streets are demonstrating their........................................................................................................................................................................................ The war in Ukraine is causing us problems with our energy supply. Inflation actually means that the coalition agreement is already out of date. People are looking for solutions to this, but it seems that we do not have them in this Chamber, because we are stuck with integrity issues all the time, in the provision of information. So we can't get through it if we don't change political culture together. The Minister must be able to make mistakes, absolutely. But we cannot allow this pattern to continue. If the House's right to information is not respected and the pattern is not broken, then we cannot go to the new culture and therefore not to the solutions to today's major challenges that people are so desperate for. That is where we really need to draw a line in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u567	Thank you. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u568	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the mouth cover deal. We need the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mr Omtzigt's question whether corona information has been withheld from the press or individual Wob applicants in the cabinet, the answer is that this is not the case. There is a huge amount of documents that are being assessed, and that takes a lot of time. That takes longer than I would wish or my colleague Kuipers would, because the Wob requests in the department belong to him. But we can't do it any faster than we do now, and we're working on it with man and power. He also asked which judgments of the judge on Wob requests are not enforced and whether we respect court rulings. That's the case. Of course, we respect all the judgments made, including in the area of the Wob trial. I can tell him that over 120,000 documents were decided at VWS in the first quarter. The specific request of the Volkskrant contains a total of eight partial decisions, five of which still have to be taken. The total number of documents to be assessed in the phased approach is 75,000. Those five partial decisions still depend on the ruling on our opposition. Mrs Paulusma asked if it was true that only two of the three deals are being investigated and why that is. No, all deals over $100 million are under investigation. The then Secretary of State of VWS informed your Chamber on 18 December last that research firm Deloitte previously indicated in the order confirmation that it cannot investigate a number of purchase transactions itself because of a conflict or interest-check. These are purchase orders by LCH and/or VWS from parties that are part of the scope of the investigation, but are also clients of the research firm Deloitte, for example. However, in order to involve these transactions in the investigation and to guarantee the independence of the Examination Office, a procedure is now in place for the appointment of a second Examination Office. The Secretary of State indicated on 16 September that it was not possible to define that task earlier. If that order is confirmed, I will, of course, share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u570	I will go first to Mrs Paulusma and then to Mr Omtzigt, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u571	Thank you to the Minister for replying, but I did not quite understand. I heard the same thing about the research firm during the technical briefing. Are those three 100 million-plus deals being investigated, or is one of those deals still being sought by an investigative agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u572	They're all being investigated, but indeed, for one of the deals that other research firm is still wanted, that's right. But they're all gonna be investigated eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u573	Do I understand the Minister correctly that the cabinet has not decided at any time not to release Wob requests because they did not consider it appropriate, at most because it could not be ready in good time because of the large amount of documents? I had also asked if the same was true of parliamentary questions. Has it been decided in the Cabinet to provide some information on corona in part or not in the last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u574	Not as far as I know. Of course, I'm only a short while in the Cabinet, but I don't know. I know that the Minister of BZK will come up with a letter before the summer on how to deal with Wob requests. The Wob requests at VWS are not my portfolio, but I can ask Mr Kuipers to respond separately, by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u575	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u576	Then I assume there will be a separate response to these two questions. Has there been a cabinet decision at any time not to honour certain Wob requests or later? That was quite a jumping thing in the child support scandal. Has it been decided not to share certain information with the Chamber? That was also the case at the time, and that would not happen again. I just want to know if that's what happened in the last year. I'd like to hear that in writing and crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u577	That's good. I'll take care of that. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the two groups. Sorry, two groups? Excuse me. Again, I apologize for the address. I just wanted to report that to my colleague. It's all about it, I think, all night. It's made a deep impression. The Tielen c.s. motion in piece No. 137 gets, as far as I'm concerned, judgment Chamber. I would ask Mr Hijink for his motion on item No. 136 on the private e-mail, so that I can pass it on to my colleagues from General Affairs and from BZK, who will respond by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u578	I'll take a look at Mr. Hijink. Is he willing to make the motion in part no. To hold 136? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u579	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u580	Is there another question from Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u581	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You made a very clear reference to the second term, in which Minister Helder would return to my question about the recovery of the 100 million. She wouldn't have answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u582	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u583	Excuse me. You're absolutely right. It was even a separate folder. The tax money has to be returned: what is the situation with that? At least I want to say that I have a sense of it. I am also very sorry that this has happened and that 100 million in taxpayers' money cannot be used for care. Let me tell you right away. When we look at the facts, we see that VWS was not a party to the agreement with the LCH. VWS did grant advance payments to the LCH and this is indeed a matter of Community money. This applies to all agreements concluded during that period. So this is wider than the RGA case. Grant Thornton concludes in its June 2021 report that its investigation shows that there were actually no irregularities. RGA's offer was within the range of market prices at that time. So that doesn't provide a basis for getting the money back. Should Deloitte's investigation show that there is an irregularity somewhere and there would be an opportunity to recover it in that way, I am of course prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u584	Okay. So we've all been swindled. Everything and everyone's been fooled. I think VWS has prefinanced a sum of 100 million. So that can no longer be used for care. That's involuntary taxpayers' money. I understand that there is therefore no activity on VWS right now to recover that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u585	Because there has not been any irregularity, there is currently no activity to recover that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u586	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister wants... Mrs. Van der Plas, you want to say something? No. The Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u587	I had two more questions from Mrs Agema. The first question concerned the quote: "I recognize that of that letter;-) But think that there may be a moment when we may have to send without his consent, if only for the parliamentary historiography (...)." Mrs Agema's question was whether that was about De Jonge or about the other e-mail, namely: rather simply send the pieces in the bag and not by mail. I had that checked out. It's not about me. It's about another officer involved in the corona crisis. It's not like the name was smeared into the pieces for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u588	A few hours ago, the Minister explained in detail here how "in the bag" went into his work. He's acknowledged it and confessed it. But, yes, the only other minister at the time was Martin van Rijn. Look, if it wasn't Minister De Jonge, I'm sorry. However, I would like to clarify who it was. Because then I think it must be Martin van Rijn. It's terrible that we have to guess like that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u589	No, it wasn't any of the rulers involved. The name has been deliberately wiped out, and I really want to keep it that way. It was an official involved in the corona crisis, not a member of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u590	Clear. Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u591	Then who are civil servants worried about when those pieces go in a bag?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u592	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u593	Who then worry about the parliamentary historiography and Wob requests? A senior official like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u594	Yes. But that name was deliberately painted, and I really want to keep it that way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u595	Then we'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u596	Then there's the other question. In fact, Mr Omtzigt has already clarified this himself. That was that name and presentation, or that was my name or Pieter Ommzigt's name. That was Pieter Omtzigt's name, but he has just explained that himself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u597	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the mouth cover deal. I would like to thank the directors very much for their reply. I thank the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed the debate, the people in the gallery and the people who have followed the debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-9.u598	We are about to vote on two motions: Mrs Kuik's motion and Mrs Van der Plas' motion. We are going to vote on the other motion next Tuesday. I'm suspending the sitting for ten minutes, and then we're going to vote by roll call.
