ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u1	It is a particularly beautiful evening for two reasons, colleagues, people at home, colleagues in trade union K, Minister. This is because there is an initiative legislative proposal on the table. That is the proposal of the law of the members Van Weyenberg and Maatoug to amend the Act to work flexibly in connection with the promotion of flexible work to work, i.e. the Working Law wherever you want, Chamberpiece 35714. It is special that Members of Parliament exercise perhaps the most special and important right that we as Members of Parliament have, namely the right of initiative, the right of initiative. It is nice that you use this instrument. The initiators will be supported by Mrs Agnes Maassen, co-worker of the D66 Group, and Mrs Meike Hellevoort, co-worker of the GroenLinks Group. You're very welcome. I would also like once again to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, as an advisor, this evening. We have a first-term legal treatment. The authors themselves are concerned with the follow-up to the legal process, so the first term of the Chamber is today. The authors will speak later. I told you there's two happy facts tonight, because there's also a maiden speech. That's one of the nicer things you can experience in the Chamber. You can all be there tonight, because Mr Simons of the VVD will be making his maiden speech as a third speaker. I'll suspend afterwards to pass on the congratulations. Of course, he'll have to make the maiden speech first. Enjoy it all, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kröger. She will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Work Initiative Act wherever you want, from colleagues Steven van Weyenberg and Senna Maatoug, and before that other petitioners who are no longer MPs. First of all, of course, compliment the authors and their support for the many, many work they have done. Mr. Chairman. The corona virus has turned the world upside down for a while. All sorts of self-evidentities were suddenly no longer self-evident. You would almost forget again after this sun-drenched weekend with full terraces and festivals full of crowds, although I fear it will come back yet, but less than two and a half years ago people walked around the street with a big bow. Human contact was suddenly something dangerous. The corona crisis also had major consequences for our work. Caregivers continued to do their job, but were exposed to major risks. Teachers had to reinvent their profession: teaching from home on a screen that sometimes consisted of black squares. Many people with an office job suddenly had no office, but a kitchen table. Says like "you're still on mute" and "is that an old hand?" can now be added to the standard office vocabulary. I think anyone with an office job can confirm it: something has changed substantially in our work. Interviews are more often digital and people do more work from home. It really has its advantages. It saves travel time and allows you to organize your working hours more flexibly, which many people experience as a form of freedom. The fact that it saves travel time also saves a lot of CO and nitrogen emissions, I say as spokesman for climate and mobility my normal portfolios. The social benefits of the right to work at home are therefore considerable. Moreover, it is also positive for people who have so far had more difficulty getting to work, for example because of the combination with care tasks or because of a physical disability. But the many homework has of course also shown the lesser aspects of it. People lost contact with colleagues and were able to unite. Homework also sometimes led to work and private life getting more mixed up. If it is no longer necessary to be physically on site to meet, then you can do so anytime and anywhere, even in the evening when the children are in bed or even from your holiday address. I think we all have experience with that. So that also makes it harder to guard your boundaries. In this context, I would very much like to ask the authors of this law to explain in more detail how they look at the right of inaccessibility. The Labour Party has made a very nice proposal for this. I am very curious to see whether the proposers will support this. That was actually some kind of balancing of this law. The social change that is going on around homework is given a legal basis with this initiative law. Something changes in society. Standards about how we look at homework change. This law guarantees that further. As far as we are concerned, that is a very good thing. At present, an employer can actually reject a request to work at home for any reason. It is wise to give more direction to this. Moreover, this amendment applies not only to a request for work at home but also to an application for work at the office. Especially in the later stages of the corona crisis, we saw that some employers put pressure on employees to work at home as much as possible, for example in order to save office costs. Then it is good that employees can claim a right to work properly in the office. This law also gives workers who are affected more opportunities to claim a workplace at the office. This bill provides that an employee's request must be met if that is a reasonable and fair request. With this in mind, there is a balanced proposal for GroenLinks. It is nice that the ESC has come up with a common position between employers and employees. I have two specific questions. One question is in response to the letter of amendment. It is a good thing that the employee also has to justify his request, but can the initiators explain a little more precisely what that means? What is people really being asked? As far as we are concerned, this should not become a threshold for making such a request. The second question concerns working conditions. We have a lot of labor laws. How does this right to work at home affect labour law? What do you ask employers to ensure that you can really work at home? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the initiators once again very much, and to stress once again how important it is to work at home, especially at a time when we are faced with a very large climate challenge. In the figures I read how much CO can not be saved with much more working at home, if you work one day a week at home. That is why I, as the climate spokesman for GroenLinks, am very pleased with this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u4	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kathmann. It will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In front of us, the Work Initiative Act is where you want it to be. Of course, I would like to congratulate colleagues Van Weyenberg and Maatoug incredibly, because it is a very nice bill. It also took an incredible amount of time. To be clear to the viewers, it is often the people in the second row who do a lot of real work. So thank you also to Mrs Maassen and Mrs Hellevoort. Mr Van Weyenberg, you are lucky, because with Mrs Maatoug in box K you have a key in your hands to ensure that an initiative legislative proposal is completed successfully. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has had many adverse effects on many people. There are also some positive innovations that could be accelerated and well deployed. After some start-up problems, thousands of workers finally worked at home, where until recently this was not conceivable. That brought a lot of benefits. You can decide when you work, and you can work out in between, take your kids to the dentist or school; it could all be a lot easier. On top of that it can lead to less crowds on the road or in the train. Working at home or on site can therefore have many advantages. So basically, it's a good law. FNV research shows that nine out of ten employees need more control over their workplace. The ESC opinion on hybrid works is also clear. Following this ESC opinion, the initiators sent a letter of amendment. I have a few more questions about that. Question one: Is the initiative of this change going to be more of a matter for employers? Two: is it now becoming more difficult for employees to work on site? And three: in other words, what are the concrete consequences of the letter of amendment for the employee? Mr. Chairman. I have some concerns about this bill, too. Numerous studies have shown that it leads to many homework leading to more stress and burn-out cases. The separation between work and private is fading. That's what Mrs Kröger was talking about. In the evening, when your laptop is on the dining table, it looks like it's over. The result is that you're constantly on. All day you receive messages and e-mails, and there's actually no end to it. It's the rat race of this time. We also need to fight that a little bit. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, there must be a legal right of inaccessibility. This means that the employer and employees must consult each other in order to agree on this accessibility outside working time. As Mrs Kröger has just said, this initiative law is not separate from the initiative law on the right of inaccessibility. In fact, the right to inaccessibility is a logical consequence of this law. That is why I would like to hear an explicit statement from the initiators on how they stand on the initiative law on the right of inaccessibility. They have already given a kind of initial answer, but I was not entirely satisfied with that. That is why I am giving them the opportunity to go into that again. Do the initiators agree with me that this law cannot exist without the law on the right to inaccessibility? In concrete terms, are they going to support that law? Another concern is the fact that many workers do not have a good workplace. They're sitting in the wrong chair or in the wrong posture. Now many employers have no risk inventory and assessment at all, also called RI&E, and if they already have it, they do not offer sufficient facilities to work well at home. How do the initiators intend to ensure that more companies receive a RI&E? How do the initiators think homework becomes part of that RI&E? On top of that, how do the initiators feel that, apart from the existing fiscal area, employers are going to make a living? Mr. Chairman. In addition to benefits for employees, homework also has cost advantages for employers. For example, employers need to pay less travel costs. Workers, on the other hand, have more costs. The cost of heating the house and electricity are of course sky high. I don't have to tell you all that. Do the initiators agree that the current homework allowance, which is occasionally provided, is currently too low to be able to pay these high costs? Is it true that this homework allowance has not been indexed? Do the initiators agree that the tax exemption for a homework allowance should be extended? Finally, Mr President. The right to work at a location is important. However, I am concerned about the blurring of the separation between work and private life. Hence my call to take the right to inaccessibility seriously as well. Finally, I would like to point out that this law does not apply to the bus driver, the nurse and the teacher, while they want more control over their work and working hours. I would like to ask the initiators how they look at the fact that employees with a flex contract or low-paid work often experience little control over their work. How can we improve this for them? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u6	Thank you. Let's go to the maiden speech. Please, all of you, sit down for it. I call Mr Simons. He will speak on behalf of the VVD. Have fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are interested. It is a great honour for me to give my maiden speech here for you as a Member of Parliament; a position I had not thought of two years ago. And working flexibly on the subject, which my predecessors have already said a lot about. It is really a subject that we have had a lot of experience with over the past two years, but also for a long time. Born and raised in Middelburg, the capital of Zeeland. There I grew up, together with my sister, in a sweet and safe family in which freedom, looking after each other, but above all responsibility was the norm. My parents had a company in facility business, but they also found volunteering really important. I remember the summers very well, which were the basis for what I did in the future. Because because of the crowds in the company in the summer we never went on holiday. So I've been working for three weeks since I was 15. I've actually done that a little earlier, but I can't officially say that in the case with my parents. But I was also three weeks lifeguard on the most beautiful beach in the Netherlands, Zoutelande. From that beach we took care of the safety of the many bathers along the coast. Working with your parents in those three weeks and earning a penny was very common and never a discussion. I've never known working hours from eight to five. On the beach we started, like here, around 10:00. But the end time was also very stretchy. And that for a fee of €12,50 per day. As a member of the rescue squad, I provided various training courses and trainings to get enough volunteers on the beach in summer to take care of the safety of the bath guests. This went from performing first aid and finding a lost child, or the parents, to saving drones at sea. And that on a stretch of beach that seemed very safe for everyone. But the sea-going vessels are very nice to feed at less than 100 meters away along the rubber boats, swimmers and surfers. The current was also heavily underestimated. What has made a very deep impression on me is the commitment to the floods in Limburg in 1993. Just before Christmas we urgently had to take the lifeboat from Zeeland to Limburg, in the night hours around Baarlo to get people and animals from homes and farms. That's what we did the next day in Venlo. This was repeated again in 1995. The harrowing situations you encountered will always be with you. Many experiences of this commitment I later used to provide input for the renewal of our rescue fleet. The fact that I later became a security expert and made my work out of my hobby isn't going to sound weird to you. Furthermore, I also went to work in the company, in which I also shaped the quality policy and safety policy in addition to the execution at different locations and with specialist assignments. I also advised a lot of companies in metal and wood on their VCA routes. That's very nice, because you just look at others in the kitchen. When my parents asked me to take over the company from them, I did this. My father mainly gave me to take good care of our people, because that was the foundation of the company. With 150 employees, it was a really big family. My political interest started early, but never got active, until nineteen years ago my good friend André Bosman asked me whether or not I was strict, as my wife said for a sounding board group of the local VVD. One thing led to another: from political assistant through council member to group chairman. As you can see, André has been back with my wife on a regular basis. For the last ten years, I've been allowed to be alderman in Middelburg. The choice to do this at 47, you don't make it alone. After good consultation with André, but especially with my wife and certainly with my mother I said goodbye to the company and started this new challenge, with a very diverse portfolio. In particular, social affairs was very special for a VVD worker. I liked that, because here my entrepreneurial spirit, but also the safety part really came in handy. Changing a classical social service and a classical social employment provision into an integrated work-learning company was a great achievement. In addition, it made a lot of contact with residents and entrepreneurs until a time I wouldn't have missed. I think you'll recognize that. My starting point was and is that you have to work on the basis of trust, with open sight and willing to consult. My experience in the regulation is precisely that one assumes: trust is good but control is better. It's often counterproductive. Safety policy in the workplace is also very closely regulated, so that workers no longer think for themselves and sometimes work very counterproductively. Rules must help workers and employers and not make this impossible. Fun in your work, being allowed to think along and heart for the cause just have to come back. Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I visited such a family business, PDL, a large family business, which works with many employees in various innovative sectors in the Netherlands and beyond. Their basis is strength through cooperation. By "cooperation," they mean above all: with their staff. This creates a stable, growing, flat organization, which is really their strength. Here in the House of Representatives, too, we really need to see together that we radiate more power if we work together on the basis of trust. I'd like to work on this, too. Mr. Chairman. Now, with the above experiences, I come to the initiative proposal, but before I go into that, I would like to thank the initiators very much for their commitment to their proposal and for the great work that has been done on it, because I can really imagine that. Over the past two years, homework has determined the working lives of many inhabitants, as the predecessors have also indicated. This has produced many positive experiences, but also comments. The desire of the initiators to provide more certainty and continuity is an understandable consequence of this. For the VVD, particular attention is given to the usefulness and necessity of the law, the administrative burden on SMEs and social cohesion within the company. The VVD is particularly keen, based on confidence, to ensure that employers and employees work in good cooperation with each other in an appropriate way for site-independent work. With last Thursday's letter of amendment, which fully endorsed the opinion of the ESC, we see that this cooperation between employer and employee takes shape. In particular, the explanation of the initiators with regard to the "reasonable" and "fair" is crucial when weighing up a homework request. In this context, I would like to ask the initiators a few questions. Firstly, on the usefulness and necessity of the law. The Council of State found that a critical point. Why has it not been chosen for a period of two years to see whether employers and employees can arrange for themselves? How is social cohesion in companies? It appears that many workers cannot or cannot work at home because of their work. Could the proposers explain the terms'reasonable' and 'fair'? For example, for which professions is it possible or not to do so, all the bus driver and the care were called "to grant a request"? In what way is the balance between the interests of employer and employee sufficiently secured by this proposal? Finally, Mr President, our SMEs: the family businesses. They are the strength of our economy, where employees belong mainly to the family. Why is the qualitative administrative burden burden not taken into account as a review framework in the evaluation, whereas the Advisory Committee on Control Pressure, the ATR, does advise this? Can the proposers promise that this will happen? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. Simons. First of all, I should like to congratulate you and congratulate you on your personal maiden speech on the importance of the family business and the warm sense of social affairs for the portfolio you now manage. The Scheveningen area is not a beach of Zoutelande, but it is one of the longest days of the year today. So if we keep up the momentum, perhaps you can get your heart up there after this beautiful speech tonight. Congratulations. I shall suspend for a single moment, so that colleagues can also congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u9	I call Mr Van Kent. He will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Simons. Every now and then such a maiden speech says things that you stay with all the time when you see someone at later times. A lot of people will recognize that. I think that in this case it is indeed the rescue brigade, both the important work in Zeeland, in Zoutelande, and in the emergency area in Limburg. That was an impressive story. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors of this initiative law. In particular, I would like to thank Mrs Maassen and Mrs Hellevoort for the work they have done. They are about hidden behind the pole, but are therefore no less important. Mr. Chairman. We have a number of questions about this law, but we would like to say in advance that we are in favour of the applicants' efforts to increase employee ownership to choose where they want to work. A lot of positive things have already been said about working at home. I remember that this law was announced in corona time and that there were a lot of people back then who really wanted to work at home. Later that changed a bit, because then a lot of people wanted to go back to work. Then the nature of the law was also slightly modified, so that it could work wherever you want became more leading than the right to work at home. I think that's a good idea, too. I would like to ask the authors what risks they see, even when it comes to reconciliation, working conditions in people's homes and all the other adverse effects of working at home that we have seen. How do they see the risk of this happening if people start working more at home through this proposal? And how do the proposers see the communication? A lot of people don't know they can knock on the boss' door for this. What's that gonna look like? We are also concerned about the position of flex workers. How do the proposers view the employees who are not in such a strong position vis-à-vis the employer, for example, because they are in a flex relationship or in azzp relationship? How do the proposers see that these people can also avail themselves of the right to work wherever they want? Another question to the applicants is whether an employee can always refuse the employer's request to work at home. It is therefore very important that the employer asks the employee to work at home. Can the employee always refuse? Mr. Chairman. These questions are important to us. We also note that the letter of amendment a few days ago actually replaces the whole law. I would also ask the authors if they have looked at the situation regarding the Council of State. Have any further advice been sought to prevent any errors from being made or that things should be formulated more clearly or differently than in the proposal which has now been sent to the Chamber at a very rapid rate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u11	Thank you. Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Simons on his maiden speech. We have a common interest. I was always a first aid instructor and a CPR instructor. I quit a few years ago. I heard this back in your maiden speech. Very nice. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. As a working mother, I know how important it is to be able to combine work and household. It's just easier to make that combination if you have the ability to work from home. This also applies to people who have to combine work with their care tasks. During the corona crisis, a lot of people had to work at home. Although that wasn't always appreciated, because the circumstances didn't lend themselves well, it turned out that many people started to appreciate working at home more and more. It was always thought that working at home would have a negative impact on productivity, but studies now show the opposite. That's why I'm glad we're talking tonight about the Initiative Work Act wherever you want. I think it's important that people have freedom, the freedom to choose where they work, at home or at the office. Let's seize the opportunity we have now after the coronal lockdowns to stimulate this. I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Maatoug and the employees of Maassen and Hellevoort, and also the employee who is not here, but who has worked very hard, for the initiative and for all the time they have put into the initiative law. It is always very special when colleagues take the trouble to use the beautiful instrument of the initiative. This is what the President said at the start of this debate. The conversation between employees and employers is important for D66. It is important that there is a dialogue between employees and employers about the workplace. It is good that the employee's position is strengthened. It is also good that there is now an opinion from the ESC. With that, there is broad support. With the last letter of amendment, the initiators brought the bill in line with the opinion of the ESC. They meet the points of the polder. In the first instance, a request to adapt the work site should be assessed in the same way as a request for working time or working time. However, with the last letter of amendment, this has been adapted to the measure of reasonableness and fairness, in line with the opinion of the ESC. This is interesting because it makes a balance between the interests of the employer on the one hand and those of the employee on the other. I would like to hear from the authors, also because there were questions about it earlier, whether they could explain it a little more. D66 is, of course, a very dualist party, so I also have some critical questions, which I did not agree with in advance with the initiators, which I would like to ask. I also know a lot of people, I have been alderman for a long time, who are in a vulnerable position and for whom it is important to have a fixed workplace, so that there is a little attention for them, so that they do not unite. Questions have already been asked by other colleagues. I would like confirmation from the proposers that these people can simply come to the office and that we keep an eye on the people in a vulnerable position. I am also curious about the gender effects. Can this initiative law have the negative effect that many women are going to work at home and perform caring tasks rather than men? Have the proposers thought about this too? What gender effects do the proposers foresee? In addition, I receive signals from people who live or work across the border. For their social security there is a distinction between the country of residence and the country of work. It's gonna be more diffuse working at home. Fortunately, it has been agreed at Corona, and this evening, during the two-minute debate, the Minister has also said a few words about it. But I would like to know how the applicants see the situation of these border workers. Then I have a few more questions for the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to take account of the effects on traffic in the evaluation of the implementation of this law, for the sake of convenience? And how can we prevent employers from over-infringing the privacy of employees with, for example, supervisory software, I ask the Minister? This law got me excited, too. I have always thought that if we asked for a change in working hours, we were going to have fewer hours of work. But I've also talked to a lot of people who would like to work more hours. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: can you indicate whether requests to increase working hours are often rejected on the basis of the current legal framework? Because I think it might also be a good idea to get some extra attention for that, especially in these times of tight labour market conditions. Mr. Chairman. Again, this law gives employees the freedom to choose where to work, at home or in the office, and especially to discuss this with each other, employee and employer. I look forward to hearing from the proposers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u13	Thank you. I call Mrs Palland. She will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u14	Thank you, Mr President. In 2011, more than ten years ago, one of my predecessors within the CDA group and provincial colleague Eddy van Hijum, together with GroenLinkscolleague Ineke van Ghent, presented an initiative bill, the Act to work flexibly, with the aim of promoting more opportunities for employees to work telework, so we called it at the time and to work on favorable times for them. The law was passed in 2014 in the Lower House and in 2015 in the Upper House, by the way, not entirely unanimous. Mr. Chairman. Hybrid work is not new. It existed before the corona crisis. But that crisis has made many people work more at home or at other times. Many organisations are already focusing their work on this. Technology and digitalisation will enable hybrid work in the future for more employees and employers. It should also take into account the large group of workers who cannot or do not wish to work in a hybrid way. That is what we read on the website of the ESC. Homework proved to have many advantages in the corona crisis. In traffic, it also reduced congestion and emissions. We have also understood that, especially for people with disabilities, working at home can help. This is why the CDA wants to encourage work at home for professions where this is possible. As far as we are concerned, agreements on combining office and home work and flexible working hours are included in collective agreements. However, the sometimes negative impact of working at home on the social aspect of work must not be overlooked. You can read that again in our CDA election programme. Mr. Chairman. In line with the opinion of the ESC, the CDA Group says that in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by hybrid works, it is important to give employees sufficient control. Employers should have sufficient opportunities for tailor-made work that suits the organisation. The ESC opinion also provides guidance for employers and employees to work together to make arrangements for an appropriate division between work on site and at home. So everyone can take advantage of the opportunities that hybrid work offers. Tomorrow we will also have a technical briefing from the ESC on his advice on hybrid works. As far as I am concerned, the treatment may be somewhat premature. I also understand that this is due to a combination of circumstances, not to the initiators, but nevertheless. Mr. Chairman. Back to the initiative proposal as it is before us, which, of course, pays tribute to the initiators, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Maatoug, and their supporters for the initiative they have taken and the work they have done. Congratulations to Mr Simons on his maiden speech. Of course, I also paid particular attention to the family business, and that you also have personal experience with it and have been given by your parents mainly to take good care of that staff. I think that is a very strong feature of many family businesses and that that is characteristic of those companies. It's nice that you bring that experience here in the Chamber as well. Thank you also to the initiators for answering the questions from the written round. We have taken note of the letter of amendment, which was sent last week, and we see that the initiative legislative proposal has been substantially amended twice, first on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State and last week in accordance with the ESC opinion. We believe that this is a good and sensible move and adjustment. The CDA Group, as has been said, is in favour of more control, more control of work, and making use of the potential of hybrid works, but we also believe that we should not lose it. For many groups of workers, home working is not an option or only a very limited option. We read in the reports that, above all, highly educated people are reaping the benefits of working at home. The CDA wants to beware of the fact that there is a high degree of regulation that increases the gap between groups of workers. There is not only a difference between sectors, but also within sectors, and just within companies between the people who work in the office and those who are in production. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has a number of questions about this bill. First of all, we believe that there is a certain degree of haste among the initiators. Corona is a cause, the initiators indicate. But it can also be said that there has already been a movement from the bottom up, without necessarily having to be put into legislation immediately. In addition, last week the bill was indeed substantially amended. The SP had comments on this as well. It is quite fundamentally adapted and is already ahead of us. Is there a hurry? What's the rush, or are we wrong about that? Then the concerns of the Advisory College review regulatory pressure on utility and necessity of the bill. For example, they raise the question of whether an information campaign could not be more useful than the introduction of a legislative proposal. We also want to ensure with the ATR that we do not impose additional administrative burdens on employers. What are the initiators' views on the ATR's opinions, even now on the amended proposal? Mr. Chairman. Because of the corona crisis, we've been working massively at home for the past two years. However, in the second and third corona wave and lockdown in particular, we found a somewhat uncomfortable situation: a large group of employers, despite the compelling homework advice of workers, ask that they work at the workplace while working at home as an alternative. In addition, we see that a third of the staff wants to work more in the office, while a third of them want to work more at home, partly because of the current corona situation, rising contagion rates, or again because of the combination of the work and private situation. There may also be polarisation in the workplace. The ESC therefore encourages organisations to investigate whether work is suitable for work at home, so that, for example, flex workers and people with disabilities can also work hybridly. It is good to agree on the moments when home workers are in the office, so that colleagues who cannot work at home can switch with them. How do the initiators look at this? I would like to ask the Minister: what role does she see for herself and what instruments does she have in order to find a workable solution for the parties? Does the Minister share the view of the initiators that this bill contributes to better compliance with the advice to work at home? Does it actually give employees more support and influence to make the choice to work more at home? Mr. Chairman. Even after corona, we want to keep the opportunities of hybrid work on the agenda. We believe that combining work and care should also be more discussable in the workplace. Young parents are also getting in trouble more and more often. In the case of single parents, the employment rate is the fastest declining. They should be given more opportunities for a good balance between work and private life, so that they do not feel compelled to work less. Increasing the scope for flexible work not only makes it easier for parents but also for carers to continue to work alongside their care tasks. It is precisely in a tight labour market that we also retain experienced workers. Do the initiators share this? Then the evaluation. The promoters included an evaluation after three years, different from the standard five-year period. In the letter of amendment we read about a reference to a recommendation to carry out a reflection test after one year. That seems very good to us, but why after three years? Why not take a reflection test after one year and then hold the standard five-year period for the usual evaluation? Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the border workers. We have just heard that official agreement has been reached this afternoon, which is likely to extend the home working arrangements for border workers by six months, as a temporary measure. But, of course, we must also move towards a more structural solution. Homework will not be possible for many border workers in the long term or only very limited due to fiscal and social security consequences. To both the initiators and the minister, whether additional administrative burdens are expected from this legislative proposal on this issue, whether they want to continue this policy and how this initiative proposal will work out for these border workers. Mr President, I shall conclude. It is good that the initiators shape their follow-up to the Law on flexible working along the lines of the ESC advice. The CDA attaches importance to this nuance in the initiative proposal and has an always positive basis when the ESC comes from employers and employees with adopted solutions. We are therefore waiting for an answer with interest before we come to a final weighing-up of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u15	Thank you. Finally, we will go to Mr De Jong, who will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u16	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my congratulations and my appreciation for the initiators and their support. It's just always or at least almost always a happy fact. There's a lot of work in it. This is also part of the political and democratic process. Thank you all for that. Mr. Chairman. As can be seen in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the legislative proposal is to give workers more rights as regards the choice of the job, thus giving workers more freedom in how they want to organise the balance between work at work and work at home. The legislative proposal also provides for a legal framework for more guidance in the discussion between employee and employer about the workplace. To this end, the right to work adaptation is enshrined in the Law to the same extent as the right to adjust working hours or the number of working hours. In the first instance, this legislative proposal for the application for adaptation of the workplace contained this main rule: the request is accepted unless the adjustment is opposed, including the time of entry and the size, major business or service interests. This has now been amended by a letter of amendment. Now it should be a consideration of the measure of reasonableness and fairness. I think that is a good adjustment, but it is also a fundamental adjustment. It is also a significant letter of amendment, so I agree with the remarks made earlier in the Chamber, such as Mr Bart van Kent: what about the opinion on it? I ask this also in the context of the fact that you have put so much work into it but now come up with such a letter of amendment. It must have all been well behaved. So I'd like to get a reaction to that. The employer does not have to comply with the request if the workplace is located outside the territory of the European Union or the employee's address or the employer's place of work. The burden of proof for non-compliance lies with the employer. I have to be honest: I do have a problem with this proposal. That is the difficulty of feeling that employers are now being burdened with an additional administrative burden. Before the corona crisis, many companies were busy facilitating homework or at least some kind of hybrid way of working. That's what's been happening. That was reinforced by the corona crisis. I see that in a lot of places just go really well. At the same time, I also see that if things are less good in places, employees are mature and able to put forward very clearly that they have great difficulty with it. The shortage in the labour market now also makes sense for employers to listen very carefully to it. This right is, of course, already legally enshrined in some sense, because it is already legally established to be able to work at home. That's why I'm having trouble with this law. It creates an additional administrative burden for these companies, especially for smaller organisations. In particular, we receive reports from family businesses who are concerned about the legal anchoring of the right to work at home. After all, there are sectors in which that simply does not work, not because one is against working at home. Look at the construction, the catering, the care and you name it. However, an employer has to do his best to prove that it is not possible in his organization, while he has something else on his mind. Working in the company is essential. Things such as social cohesion within the organisation, the well-being of workers, the composition of the teams, their cooperation and the administrative burden on employers play a major role in this. I would very much like to know from the initiators how they view it. Do they understand that it is difficult for these companies, especially given the fact that they have already done so much about this? They're being pushed into a position where it seems like they don't want something, when they want it in themselves but can't always make it happen. How do the initiators look at this? Mr President, I will conclude. Appointments about the place of work are primarily between employer and employee. That is also the daily practice. The current legislation already allows for agreements on hybrid or non-hybrid works. I would like to know whether the initiators agree with me that it should be primarily there. We must therefore call on employers to listen carefully to their employees. This is a very good initiative in itself, but perhaps it will come a little too soon, especially given the fact that employers are already doing their best. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u17	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of the Chamber and thus at the end of this sitting. I thank the Minister for her presence. I would like to thank the speakers and in particular Mr Simons for his maiden speech today. I thank the people at home for paying attention to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-27.u18	The initiators themselves decide when this legislative proposal will progress further. In doing so, I wish them every success in the defense. In particular, I wish Mrs Agnes Maassen and Mrs Meike Hellevoort every success in their preparation. This will be continued at a later date.
