ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and, of course, my colleagues and our unfaithful support, which will help us through this day again, in their fantastic and inimitable way. The next item is a two-minute debate called 'Evaluation Act strengthening administrative power'. I shall, if I understand correctly, first give the floor to Mr... I see Mrs Westerveld here, but I understood that Mr De Hoop was the applicant. There's a little confusion about that. Is that right? Oh, you're both applicants? That's a new variant. That can only be done with the OCW committee, I know from experience. Anyway, I see that it has all been resolved in peace and quiet within the groups of GroenLinks and Labour Party. As the first speaker on behalf of that group, I would like to welcome Mr De Hoop. And then I'll turn on your microphone; that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're one step further. But we sometimes make requests together at the procedural meeting, hence the misunderstanding. I have one motion, together with Mr Westerveld - that is what it is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that institutions have the possibility to grant a one-off exemption to students who take full-time seats on the co-decision council for the payment of statutory tuition fees;]] [[noting that the choice to offer this exemption to institutions themselves or not indicates that a majority of the institutions do not offer this option;]] [[considers that the participation of students in participation councils is of great value and should be encouraged;]] [[calls on the government to engage in talks with institutions that currently do not offer this option to examine the reasons behind it and remove possible obstacles to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr President, I am afraid to say who is under my motion. Participation improves education; it increases the involvement of students and employees. I noticed that myself when I was more than ten years old, but it was perhaps fifteen years ago that I was chairman of the National Student Union. I also saw that things were going very well in some places, where employees were well facilitated, but not at all in some places. That is why, together with Mr De Hoop, I have a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it differs from one educational institution to another how much remuneration employees receive for their work and how much money institutions put into the student support fund;]] [[noting that this will result in low remuneration for time-intensive work for some employees;]] [[Whereas the incentive for participation also depends on the remuneration and that a better appreciation can contribute to the motivation to become active;]] [[Whereas extracurricular activities such as participation are good for the development of students and should be accessible to all;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the student organisations and the umbrella bodies of the institutions, to draw up national guidelines on allowances for members of the student support fund;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u4	Then I have a second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the law on strengthening administrative power was introduced in 2017 with the aim of strengthening administrative power in education;]] [[Considering that the review of the law on strengthening administrative power looked at the functioning of participation in MBO and higher education;]] [[Whereas at present there is no clear picture of the state of participation in basic education;]] [[calls on the Government to also evaluate the functioning of the governance structure in primary and secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u5	By "the governance structure," we mean not only the participation, but also the boards and supervisory boards. So our request is to evaluate them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you very much. No other speakers have been notified, and the Minister has indicated that he can respond immediately. So I'm going to give him the floor. I call the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we're here to talk about co-determination. It is crucial for a good governance structure, within the institutions. The law strengthens administrative power and strengthens the roles of all concerned, i.e. the boards, supervisory boards and co-determination. I hope that will also facilitate them in a good way. The evaluation of that law shows that participation in institutions is generally good. I think that is a great asset in Dutch educational culture, by the way. But there are also a number of recommendations to strengthen it further. It is, of course, important that participation is well equipped for its task. That's how I read today's discussions. The law provides for institutions to provide support for participation. They must do so in several ways: training, administrative, legal, financial. The institutions and the participation bodies are asked to agree on this in a joint manner. In order to give further impetus to the current functioning of participation, I will invest an additional EUR 11.5 million in the period from 2022 to 2025. I informed the institutions of this by letter. On the basis of these four main themes, a list of possible spending targets has been drawn up: training, support, communication and reimbursement. This list is based on the results of the evaluation of the law and was thus also drawn up in coordination with UNL, the universities, and with VH, the colleges, and with the student organisations ISO and LSVb. It is intended that the directors will spend this money on the basis of the spending targets in consultation with participation. Moreover, it is laid down by law that an institutional board may grant a one-time exemption to students for the payment of statutory tuition fees if a student holds a full-time management position, for example in the central council. As soon as they are exempted once and for the period of one academic year, they may not take any education or take any examinations. Moreover, this financial support for students in the participation body is regulated through the so-called Profiling Fund. I also think it is very important that students can make use of these arrangements and that institutions communicate about them in a clear way. Then we'll get to the motions. Let me start with...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u8	One moment, Minister. There's been an interruption for you from Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u9	I have a brief comment. The Minister once again said "Profiling Fund." I asked the minister's predecessor to call it "Student Support Fund" in communication, because students find it difficult to find the way to the financial support they need. My request would therefore be to continue to use that term, because the previous minister has promised it and because it also helps students to find the right way to that financial support. So let's hold on to that as much as possible, so those students really find the route to the support they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr De Hoop is just a few seconds ahead of me, because I wanted to say that the name 'profiling fund' will soon be changed in law, at the request of your Chamber, to'student support fund'. I will therefore start using that term from now on. But thank you for your intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u11	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u12	Then I come to the motion on part No. 97, tabled by Mr De Hoop. I fully agree with him that it is very valuable that students can gain experience with an administrative function. It is interesting that the law offers this opportunity, but it is actually up to the institutions to decide whether or not to use it and then communicate it to the students. That's how we agreed. But I would also like to talk to the institutions, in a dome context or with each other, to actually encourage them to offer this opportunity and to communicate clearly to students and also to upcoming students. If there are any obstacles in those conversations that I can take away, I will certainly not fail to do so. It is the nature of this construction, in which we have given quite a lot of freedom to the institutions to do so in consultation. I can't really imagine why institutions wouldn't want to offer this option. So I'm happy to give this motion judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Westerveld's two motions. The first motion, the one in part No. 98, deals with the directives on remuneration of participation. Once again, I agree with the author of this motion that these extracurricular activities, such as participation, are good for the development of students and that they should also be accessible. Of course, we are talking about a general problem, namely that we do have the instruments, but that participation will only work really well if there is enough enthusiasm for it, if people participate in it. That's why it's okay, I think, that we're having that conversation today. We all agree that both the institution and the students are winning, but we must encourage it. It is true that there are differences between the institutions in the remuneration given to the members of the participation. That is simply the result of the space that the law offers to institutions to deliver customization. In my view, that should remain possible. I think we need to get more balance in the system. The proposal for national directives seems to me to be a good instrument. I think that you support participation in the interpretation of the customization of the arrangements between the institutions, the conversation between the institution, the students and the participation and also the conversation within the institution board. With that remark I give this motion judgment Chamber. I think this is a good tone. Then, finally, Mrs Westerveld's motion to item No. 99 on the evaluation of the governance structure, as outlined by you, in the foundation education and p.o. and the vo. Perhaps it is good to mention that there is through the evaluation of the MBO and the h.o. That is what we are actually talking about here, and it is already a good picture of that governance structure. We can also see here that there are a few points for improvement. Of course I'm also aware that it's p.o. and not in my portfolio, but I think that the functioning of the governance structure, as outlined by you, in basic education is a good idea in itself. That is why I would also like to give this third motion of censure Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you very much. Then let me look at Mrs Westerveld, who has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u14	Yes, and a thank you, because I like the Minister's thinking this way. I would like to make one more comment about his introduction, because the Minister was right to say that the structure of participation in higher education in general is working properly. But Berenschot's report also gives a large number of points of interest. What disappoints me is that I have been active in participation for a very long time and that the same points of improvement remain in place year after year. Think, for example, of the invisibility of the training committees, the fact that employees have too little time to consult their constituents and the fact that knowledge exchange is not enough. I would therefore ask the Minister to keep an eye on this in the coming years. We have been talking for a very long time about participation and how good it is that there is, but the bottlenecks have also been the same for a very long time. That has been the case for at least twenty years, and I think that is a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u15	It is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you to Mrs Westerveld for this historic sketch of the persistence of the problem. I am also very aware that we are describing theoretical possibilities through law and other ways, but that the question is how things are going in practice. This is a subject which appeals to me very much, because I think it really strengthens the quality of the institutions. I have already said on other occasions that it is very important to me that students, but also teachers, play a very important role in the way the institution operates and in the direction it takes. On another occasion, we discussed the plans we have for the future. I also said at the time that I think it is very important that those voices sound. So I can promise Mrs Westerveld that this is a point that is high on my agenda and that I would really like to go into the details with the institutions, with student organisations and with other organisations, to see what we can do to ensure that this instrument, which is there, which can be facilitated and which we are going to strengthen further, is used in a way that really strengthens the quality of the training and the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u17	Well, I see a very satisfied Mrs Westerveld. That concludes this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-7.u18	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday 10 May. I should like to thank the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, as well as my colleagues, whom I leave in the familiar hands of Mr Van der Lee, who is going to take over the Presidency.
