ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Members Paternotte, Kuiken, Ellemeet and Tellegen amending the law on termination of pregnancy in connection with the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of reflection for the termination of pregnancy, Section 35737. I would like to welcome the initiators. I just don't see the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport yet, but I'm sure he's on his way. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. Last Thursday, the first term of the Chamber took place and today we are dealing with the answer and then with the whole second period. I would like to dwell on the fact that Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21 was unable to follow the debate last week because of illness, but it is very nice that she is here today and participates in the debate; I think this is fine. I will, of course, suspend for lunch at a natural time. And the question then is what a natural moment is, because that differs per person, I think, but I hope to be able to do so by 14.00 p.m. After the suspension we proceed with the votes and then with the finalisation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank all the spokesmen for all their questions, both in the written round and in the plenary discussion of the law. Of course, we will do everything we can to answer all the questions as well as possible; at least we will try to do so. As you can see, there are four of us here as proposers in Box K. We will also cut the answer in four. This may mean that I may have to refer you here and there, for which I apologise in advance. This is the table of contents. Mrs Ellemeet answers questions about the professionalism of care and lessons from other countries. It also raises the questions as to what exactly this law will mean for the procedure to be followed and the duties of the doctor. Mrs Kuik will answer all questions about the public support, about the position of doctors and about the legal aspects. It will also address the questions raised about other time-limits for other decisions, both in the medical field and in private law, several of which have been discussed. Ms Tellegen will address the questions relating to the implementation of the legislative amendment and she will also address the guidance and handling directives of the NVOG and the NGvA, as they currently exist. I will start by answering the questions about the reason for this legislative proposal and the intended outcome of this amendment and on the balance of the law between the importance of help for women in an emergency situation and the protection of unborn life. I will also address the questions concerning the scientific basis for the legislative amendment. So much for the table of contents, Mr. Chairman. Today we can take a very important step forward, because women, together with their doctors, can very well determine how much reflection time they need. This does not require a statutory period of reflection. We are convinced of that. We also realise that the initiative law does not leave people unmoved. Nor do we have the illusion that today we can fully overcome fundamental differences of opinion. However, we also note that the debate has so far been largely focused on content. That is good, and we appreciate that, because the treatment of this initiative law is taking place against a background in which a great deal is going on all over the world with regard to legislation that allows for the termination of pregnancy and the right of women to make a choice. That background also came along many times in the first term. This is, on the one hand, the trend towards anchoring the right to abort an unwanted pregnancy, such as in Ireland and Argentina, and, for example, the abolition of the period of reflection and the transition to a more flexible period of reflection, as in France, but on the other hand, Poland, where pregnancy break-ups are increasingly being pushed to the periphery of medical care, with the low point last week of the death of a woman who needed an abortion to survive her pregnancy but did not. I also mention the United States where more and more states introduce substantial restrictions on women's freedom of choice, restrictions which are not medically necessary but are intended to discourage. We, as the proposers, look at it with one eye and the other with agreement. Let me outline to you what prompted us to draw up this law. Among other things, Mrs Paulusma, Mrs Westerveld, Mrs Gündoğan, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Hijink have said a lot about this and some questions have been raised by them in their speech. In the Law on Abruption of Pregnancy of 1984, the legislator considered that a mandatory minimum period of five days would be necessary for the balance between the care of women and the protection of unborn life. This was based on the idea that these mandatory five days ensure that the woman makes an informed choice. What is implicitly contained in this is the assumption that without these five days no careful choice can be made. It turns out that's the assumption that doesn't add up right now. This has been repeated in the 38 years since the law was introduced. The 2005 and 2020 evaluations show that a fixed mandatory period of reflection does not contribute to a careful decision. Professional help and support do contribute to making an informed choice. The fixed mandatory period of reflection therefore has no advantages, but rather disadvantages. For example, the mandatory reflection period has a negative impact on emotional well-being and can cause physical and psychological complaints. Think, for example, of women who wish to have children, but who have made the difficult choice of wanting to break off their pregnancy because of a very serious disease in the fetus, and for whom the grief is only stronger because of that five-day period of thought. These promoters aim at a period of reflection which fully recognises women's freedom of choice, which recognises that every situation is different and is therefore suitable for providing tailored care to women. This means that women always, with the help of and in conversation with doctors, determine how much time they need to reach a decision. In my view, it is good to emphasise for clarity that this legislative amendment allows for a shorter but also longer period of reflection, depending on what is necessary for an informed decision. A period of reflection therefore remains, but is not mandatory and does not legally last five days. The mandatory five days also have other disadvantages. Because during that time, pregnancy progresses. This could lead to a further phase. For example, after nine weeks, a medical termination of pregnancy becomes more difficult and the risk of surgery increases afterwards. This also increases the risks to women's health. At each subsequent stage, the risk of serious complications for women also increases. Mrs Westerveld, Mrs Bikker, Mr Stoffer and Mr Hijink asked whether this amendment would mean that a possible termination of pregnancy could also take place on the same day of the first conversation between woman and doctor. The answer to that question is: yes, it can, provided the doctor, like now, concludes that the woman has voluntarily reached the decision, has all the necessary information at her disposal, has no doubt, has taken her decision voluntarily and permanently, and is medically responsible. Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Tellegen will explain this further later, including with regard to the directives in which this was incorporated. Mr. Chairman. A number of Members of Parliament had questions about the reason we see for this legislative amendment. These were Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Houwelingen, Mrs Van der Plas, Mrs Bikker and Mrs Palland. Those questions were actually concerned with the seriousness of the problem that we want to solve with this law. The questioners are clearly not convinced of this seriousness. They also asked how autonomy and the right to self-determination are threatened by the mandatory five-day reflection period. If I can sum it up like that, they said, "What's the big deal about a few days of mandatory extra thinking? Aborting pregnancy is, after all, a very important and important choice. That period of reflection does force the delay, but not the delay." As far as the proposers are concerned, this question also presents the problem, because why would you assume that women have not thought about it before they go to the doctor? That also affects the point made by Mrs Westerveld. She was right to ask whether the period for the consultation with the doctor should also be considered, assuming that the reflection does not begin until the first consultation with the doctor has taken place. That is also what the studies on which this bill is based say. The choice of women is careful. Professional help and support contribute to this. That's what Alina Chakh said in the NRC Handelsblad this morning. She was sure of her difficult choice and experienced the mandatory period of reflection as an incredibly difficult time: "What I thought was apparently not good enough for the law." Secondly, the comparison has been made with other situations in which the government imposes a legal condition for people to make a good decision. A number of examples were also mentioned. Mr Van Houwelingen mentioned the comparison between the active donor register and the mandatory period of reflection in the termination of pregnancy. We don't see the equation he's making. It is a question of fundamentally different situations, which we do not think can be compared either. The only agreement we do see is that both active donor registration and this law ultimately aim to strengthen the right of self-determination. Before active donor registration was introduced, 60% of people did not make a choice. As a result, it was not self-sufficient to be a donor, but it became a choice of the next of kin. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions from Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Van Houwelingen concerned linking the period of reflection to reasons why a woman can choose to abort pregnancy. These included rape and serious illness of the woman or fetus. The initiators want to stress that determining the emergency situation is up to the woman herself. That is no different in itself from the way it is now incorporated into the law. By proposing that a woman should only be eligible for termination of pregnancy in certain situations, for example if she can prove to be victimized or seriously ill, the right to self-determination is being put under greater pressure in our eyes. In this connection, I should like to comment on the amendment tabled by Mr Van Houwelingen and Mrs van der Plas. That is in line with his demand to attach a condition to the right to choose, namely an obligation for the woman to look at and listen to an echo. He also refers to the United States, where some states have this obligation, and where the politicians who advocate it also make it clear that there is no medical need, but that it is intended to set a threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	Before you proceed, Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u5	I have a very brief point of order, also on behalf of Mrs Van der Plas. It is our amendment, so Mrs Van der Plas has not signed up. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u6	Is it true that you withdrew this amendment? I hear you've changed this. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u7	That is a justified point from Mr Van Houwelingen. I'm sorry about that. I am referring to Mr Van Houwelingen's amendment, which also refers to the practice in the United States, where some states have that obligation. In fact, you can see that politicians who advocate this see that as a threshold at all. They also recognise that there is no medical need. That is precisely what we, as proposers, do not want to go to. The explanatory memorandum and the note accompanying the report also state that decisions taken by such solutions, as well as the mandatory period of reflection, do not become more careful. They therefore have no use and only disadvantages. That actually gets to the heart of this bill. We do not want to impose or impose on women something that is not justified. That is why we would like to discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u8	I have a purely practical question. I have already asked Mr Van Houwelingen this, but perhaps Mr Paternotte can give an answer. In my opinion, in many cases, an echo is already being made in the case of abortion for medical reasons, just for term. I was wondering: how many cases is this amendment at all? What's the size of this? I find that very difficult to estimate myself. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u9	The treatment directive states that ultrasound examination should in all cases be offered in the conversation to the woman. In that sense, the choice is indeed up to the woman whether she wants to see the ultrasound and want to hear what can be seen on it. So I think Mrs Pouw-Verweij is right in that sense. In all cases, the woman must have that choice. So that doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u10	Then it's about the choice of whether the woman wants to watch on camera. But in virtually all cases there is an echo, purely for medical reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u11	That is a valid point. That, in my view, is the point made by Mrs Bikker in the debate. That is that in almost all cases it is necessary to establish the exact time limit for pregnancy. Then there'll be an ultrasound for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy and then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u13	If I understand the authors correctly, they say both about the reflection period and about the echo that they do not necessarily lead to better decision-making. I'm trying to understand this. It has been said on many occasions that reflection periods are used in all kinds of purchases. For example, buying a house is said to be wise to think a little longer. This is, in a sense, made mandatory in the law. An ultrasound gives extra information, also for the parents. I am trying to understand why the proposers are so determined that additional information by means of an echo and additional reflection period that is abolished by this proposal will not yield anything. I'd like to ask a question about this right away. I gave examples of women and parents who regret having an abortion afterwards. That's what happens. Do you recognize that? And if only that would prevent abortion in a few cases, is it worth prescribing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u14	The fact that there are enough women who are in doubt in the conversation with the doctor is known in itself. We are looking at both evaluations, but also at a whole bunch of international investigations. What all these investigations show is that that doubt is already there for that first conversation. It is also a task of the doctor........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For that, the five-day deadline is not always necessary for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u16	I have dealt with Mr Van Houwelingen's amendment. Then I come to the specific and some more contemplative questions raised by Mrs Palland, Mrs Bikker and Mr Stoffer, who touch on the issue of the balance that would be contained in the law. This concerns the protection of unborn life and the provision of care to women who are in an emergency situation as a result of an unwanted pregnancy. In Dutch practice we actually see that both values have been given a place. The fact that the termination of pregnancy in the Netherlands has its own legal framework, unlike many other medical procedures carried out by doctors, does show that the protection of unborn human life has a very important place in the Dutch practice of abortion. The question of whether there is a balance sheet as a whole, and the value to be assigned to it, and the question of how much a particular part of the Law of Abruption contributes to one, two or both values, are in many cases theoretical discussions, we think. Indeed, there are no quantitative indicators to actually judge the achievement of the objectives. The good conversation between the doctor and the woman about her wish and exploring the motives can contribute to both values. The issue of balance sheet, in so far as it is already discussed, should therefore be conducted as much as possible at the level of the personal emergency, we think, since it is different for every person. In our view it is a question of a woman, given her emergency situation and the circumstances relevant to her, knowing her responsibility for unborn life, voluntarily and after careful consideration whether she wishes to abort the pregnancy or not. The consideration of the various values is therefore up to the woman herself. Evaluations and studies, as well as practice, show that a woman does not consider a decision on termination of pregnancy lightly. Women each think about this in a suitable way for them and are happy to receive the appropriate support for them. In my opinion, we all consider this to be important in this house. In our view, it is also more important than the question of what the balance sheet in the eyes of political parties should be yes or too no. Mr. Chairman. Many of the members have referred to both legal assessments. Both studies have talked to civil society organisations, with relevant care providers and, of course, with women themselves. This clearly shows how good abortion care is in the Netherlands. With regard to the mandatory minimum period of reflection, the conclusion and the resulting recommendation are very clear. I'd like to quote that one. "It is preferable not to rely on a fixed term anymore. It is recommended to include in the law that there should always be such a reflection period as is necessary in order to reach an informed decision in the circumstances. In addition, Article 16 of the Law on Abruption of Pregnancy could therefore be deleted from the criminalisation of the doctor in the event of non-compliance with the period of reflection." The second evaluation also makes it clear that the fixed period of reflection creates bottlenecks and has no benefits. So there is also the advice to delete that period of reflection. Mr Stoffer now found that the second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act had a lower response in relation to the Internet survey, also in relation to the first evaluation, on which more women participated. That is true: in the second evaluation, less information could be collected by the researchers in a number of respects than at the first. Indeed, this is mainly due to the number of women who have had pregnancy breaks and who have participated in the study. There is no explanation for that fact in itself in the legal assessment. It is therefore difficult to describe this in the place of the researchers. We can see that society doesn't talk easily and openly about pregnancy termination. That could be because of the taboo that rests on this. Perhaps it is also due to the fact that it is one of the most vulnerable moments in the lives of women who have faced this choice. The second evaluation took place at a time when there was another social climate. The first was in 2005 and the second in 2020. We also saw that in this Chamber in the summer of 2019 a debate was held on the harassment of women by protesters at abortion clinics. That is also a fact which Mrs Westerveld pointed out in her speech. For us as proposers, it is important that both evaluations produced the same recommendation to abolish the mandatory period of reflection. This also applies to many other scientific studies cited in the explanatory memorandum and in the report. In short, yes, the second evaluation involves fewer women than in the first, but the bill is based on a sum of both evaluations and a long list of international scientific research. I come to the other mentioned investigations. By Mr Stoffer, Mrs Bikker...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u17	Before proceeding, there is an interruption by Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u18	I have the impression that Mr Paternotte is getting over this pretty quickly. We are diametrically opposed to this bill. But I think we do share one thing: if you do something, there must always be good research and good data underneath. In the end, you can weigh them differently. We are talking here in the second evaluation about less than 60 women who have participated. There was a desire to do an in-depth study on 50 women. Six of them participated. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that this is very thin to allow such a far-reaching bill to pass through this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u19	The second evaluation also, of course, looked at many aspects in practice. Carers and women are involved in this. I have just recognized that there are a lot less than in the initial evaluation. The second evaluation also recognises that the conclusions are indicative in this respect, but consistent with the results of the first evaluation. What I just said is important. We have looked at both legal assessments, the conclusion of which was clear in itself. But we also looked at the technical and policy guidance of the World Health Organization. We looked at the research of SAGE Open Medicine, at Guttmacher Institute in 2020 with Waiting Periods for Abortion. We have looked at the study of the 24-hour fixed reflection period in Arizona that has been investigated and described in the Women's Health Issues of 2016. The University of Texas has looked at and published the evaluation of abortion restrictions in Texas. I can list a whole list, but the point I want to make with that is this. We can look at exactly how the Internet survey went in the second evaluation, but this bill is based on a stack of surveys that consistently come to the same conclusion, namely that the mandatory five-day reflection period is not necessary. And that the flexible period during which it is up to the woman in consultation with the doctor to see how much time is needed for such a careful decision is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u20	I understand, of course. There are a lot of things involved, but if you are going to put down such a far-reaching bill here in the Chamber and really want to achieve something very far-reaching, then it is essential for me to include the experience of those hundreds of thousands of women who have done so. For this questionnaire there are less than 60, and for the in-depth study there are six. Surely that is very minimal and empirically not justified? Wouldn't it be wise to take the experiences of the women themselves with you first, and then look again at whether you're adjusting it? As far as I am concerned, of course, we are opposed to each other. The outcome will always be different, I admit. But the experiences of women themselves are essential to bring along, aren't they? Surely Mr Paternotte agrees with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u21	Sure, but that's also exactly why we rely on a multitude of investigations that all take into account the experiences of women themselves. And, of course, to the legal guarantees that we attach to them with regard to the careful decision-making that people take that choice on a voluntary basis. We cannot ignore the results, which are consistent. I think Mr Stoffer would have a point if the investigations were to contradict each other and come to different conclusions, but that is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u23	But if that last evaluation were empirically very strong, something else could have come out of it. It's so thin. You say that it is consistent with other things, but you could also just doubt that if you look at them scientifically and statistically. If you had an investigation that's really based on a lot of data, it could have been different. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u24	The research is based on much more data than just from the internet survey. The input from the healthcare sector has been looked at very strongly. The caregivers have indicated that they too see that it breaks down with a mandatory period of reflection and prefer a flexible period of reflection. I am glad that Mr Stoffer says that in his view too many people are involved in the initial evaluation. The results of both evaluations are consistent and consistent with the list of scientific studies I have just listed. I did so because I expected this question from you, because you raised this question specifically in the first period. It's an interplay. Mr Stoffer wishes to repeat or at least extend the evaluation on that point, but we think that after 38 years we are going to work with this law and with this mandatory period of reflection and with a lot of studies done during that period and the debate that has taken place, we are about to take that step and move on to a flexible period of reflection. In the end, this has been very explicitly advised in both legal assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u25	I am looking at Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union and then Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u26	In that light, I would like to ask the initiator the following. While we had the first deadline for dealing with this bill, the news came out that a whole number of abortion clinics in the east of the Netherlands indicated that they felt that the very period of reflection was desirable. They noticed that women came with at that time in their opinion a full conviction of what in their view would be a good sequel. The abortion clinics then indicated that it was very desirable for these women to reconsider. How does Mr Paternotte, in the light of all these investigations, intend to ensure that this continues to happen, rather than that women think on the basis of this bill: yes, but it is flexible and I am going to go about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mrs. Kuik will be discussing RTV East in detail shortly. Then there are guarantees. We do not change Article 5 (2) of the law. The treatment directive, the guidance directive of the Nederlandse Vereniging voor Obstetrie en Gynaecologie or the treatment direction of the Dutch Society of Abortion Doctors, provides for a translation of Article 5 (2) which refers to the fact that alternatives to termination of pregnancy must always be considered, that the woman has made and maintained her request in a voluntary manner and that the doctor must verify that. The doctor should be able to establish that a careful consideration has been given to the realization of the responsibility of the woman for unborn life and the consequences for herself and the hair. The doctor shall perform the treatment only if he considers it justified on the basis of his findings. These are all guarantees that we, as proposers, support, because we believe they are justified and justified. These remain and are part of the conversation between the doctor and the woman, which determines the period of reflection necessary to make the careful decision. We have confidence in that, because we see in the investigations and evaluations that this practice is of a high level, that it is going well and that it can continue in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u28	I would like to stress once again that, in the response of the initiator, the flexible period of reflection really gives a doctor time to say: it is wise to think about this for a while, a few days. I would like to say to the author: these are all guarantees, which are very difficult to establish empirically how it will take place next. There is a concern for me, also because I know that there is a difference in the quality that clinics offer and that there is a difference in the experience that women have with that. I would like to express my deep regret at the fact that a woman has taken this decision too quickly and is remorseful forever. I would like to ask the author: how does he see that? How can we prevent a practice from growing in which we are now expressing this, but in which it is very difficult to follow what could become more and more common in the long term? That's when you make it flexible. Then you don't have a hard directive of so many days. How does the petitioner intend to follow that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u29	The safeguards as they stand in the law are also special in themselves. There aren't many medical procedures that have such a list of medical safeguards. They see what needs to be discussed and what a doctor has to check on. Who's gonna supervise that? That's what the inspection does. The task of the inspection is to ensure that these legal safeguards are complied with. Those guarantees are included in the decision Abrupt pregnancy and in the treatment and guidance guidelines. On the basis of all the signals and investigations that are being carried out, our impression is that this compliance is going very well and that the concern regarding the termination of pregnancies in the Netherlands is very high in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u30	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u31	Someone said "hello." Excuse me, that distracted me. Hello to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u32	I wonder where it came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u33	It was a voice from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u34	A voice from above.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u35	Yeah, he hasn't known "hello" before, so that's a new one anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u36	And there are witnesses now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yes, and in the Acts it stands forever. Let's get back to where my concern is, especially with vulnerable women. I would have liked to have followed that very closely. I was a councilman in Utrecht. I have seen environments there where it was also a huge taboo for women in their family atmosphere to tell about that unwanted pregnancy and where there was a lot of pressure from the family, also on issues like honour, and where there was a lot of psychosocial distress afterwards. I would be so sorry if such a practice arose, or if it became known in those circles: if you go to this or that clinic, or to this or that doctor, this problem will be solved quickly. That has just been said very flatteringly, and I think that this is wrong with the situation that is taking place. But I just really want to know how the proposers want to prevent that. That's something I think this whole room is unwelcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mrs Bikker describes something very real: women who can sit in a very vulnerable environment and experience pressure. Mrs Ellemeet will be addressing this matter in a moment. However, the question is, of course, whether five days of compulsory reflection are a solution to this problem, or perhaps to increase the problem. But Mrs Ellemeet will address this in a moment, because we have invested this in the distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u39	Let's get back to those law reviews. You are right: we have, of course, also noted that this recommendation was certainly made in that initial evaluation. In the second evaluation, that recommendation was already a lot more nuanced. It indicates that the period of reflection can lead to bottlenecks, especially in terms of medical time limits, if you fall into another medical procedure as a result of the period of reflection. The recommendation is made: look again carefully, weigh again the benefits of the reflection period compared to the disadvantages of this. Do the initiators agree with me that this recommendation is a lot more nuanced after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u40	No, we see that recommendation as consistent. If you look at the start of the evaluation alone, you will see that it refers to the advice of the World Health Organization, the outcome of the evaluation itself and the frictions that are causing the reflection period. It is said that the researchers recommend that the Minister of VWS consider whether the benefits of a fixed period of reflection outweigh the disadvantages and if not, to allow them to lapse. This will of course be developed later on in the specific examination of the period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u41	In my opinion, that is where the recommendation is again to weigh up the advantages and disadvantages. You did that with your own initiative proposal. You therefore point to these evaluations, regardless of the size of the second evaluation, as: many women experience this as incriminating. I can really imagine that. I also believe that no woman will take such a decision lightly. But the evaluations also show that over 40% indicate that this is not annoying. Some of the women questioned also experience the term as pleasant. Also, part of the professional treatment professionals experience that fixed term as a hold. It gives peace and space that there is a fixed term. How did you take that into account, to give room to that minority who would benefit from such a fixed term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u42	The period of reflection remains. The fact that 40% say that they feel that this period of reflection is pleasant underlines, in my view, that it is important that there is a period of reflection and that women and doctors can agree to take the time. Maybe it might even be: "Five days is not enough, maybe you should even take ten days. Perhaps we should organise together that you can talk to a number of people about this. You might want to know more about the alternatives." That is, of course, all part of the appointment that doctor and woman make at that time, which also requires a period of reflection. But the fact that 60% doesn't indicate finding it useful also indicates that every situation is different and that a generic, mandatory five-day reflection period is not an answer to a decision that is unique in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mrs Palland, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u44	Finally. I hear the argument that the period of reflection may also be longer, but you do not have to submit this bill. For we see that in 30% of the cases, I believe, the time limit is ten days. So in practice that is already being implemented. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this argument does not support the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u45	This morning at the NRC, a 17-year-old lady indicated that she had to wait two weeks; this was also about Christmas holidays. I think she described very clearly how incriminating that was. That comes in just as hard when you're reading that alone. I think it is good that Mrs Palland also says that she can imagine that very well. It was a case where someone had thought very carefully about it, had had the conversation and at that time was ready to make the decision, but there was no possibility of making that appointment with the doctor at that time. That is, of course, different from that of women who are in doubt, where that space is there and that appointment can also be made. A flexible period of reflection is intended to enable this to be done: a period of reflection appropriate to the situation in which the woman is in consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u46	Do the authors perhaps have figures, or do they have any idea how many percent of women, after the now compulsory five-day reflection period, finally decide not to allow abortion to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u47	I don't have it at hand, but that's a small number.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u48	Is it all right if Mr Paternotte comes back to that later, or perhaps one of his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'll see if we can get back to that later. That question was not put as such in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u50	This wasn't a bunch of facts, you know. Maybe you have the same numbers as us. We understand from a study by the association of abortion clinics five years ago that 6.5% will not show up, not even at the follow-up meeting. If you allow that to happen, is that 6.5% not enough reason to maintain the five days, also given the examples I gave in my first term of "abortion remorse"? That's what I call it. The point is, it's 6.5%. That's what we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u51	No, because the studies consistently show that if there is any doubt, there is prior to the first interview with the doctor. It is also the duty of the doctor to detect that doubt and to make arrangements with that doubt. It will then probably lead to an agreement on a period of reflection. And not just a period of reflection: it is also agreed how to ensure that women can make a careful decision. That's what you have to do. If, in 6.5% of cases, this leads to a decision not to opt for termination of pregnancy, it is in line with the intention of the law and also in line with the legislative amendment we propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr Van Houwelingen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u53	This is my last question. I understand what you're saying. You always refer to the doctor and to the fact that this must be done carefully. Of course, we fully agree with that, but people can make mistakes. The five-day reflection period is intended to be a kind of guarantee, just as in other cases. So let me put it this way: if something went wrong in that room between the patient and the woman in this case, and the abortion doctor, at least you have some kind of extra stick behind the door. This is probably also being used, as 6.5% do not show up. That period of reflection is there to ensure that no unnecessary abortion is carried out, with all the serious consequences that it has. Once again, these women are gonna have to deal with it for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u54	That's just not what the tests show. The studies show that this doubt is already there for the first conversation and that then the room for that can be taken. That means that we cannot determine Mr Van Houwelingen's hypothesis on the basis of the Empire. That is why it does not play any role in the drafting of this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u55	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. I come to the investigations cited by Mr Stoffer, Mrs Bikker and Mrs Palland. These are investigations, or statements, which would show that the period of reflection is useful in some cases. Since several speakers specifically mentioned Fiom's research, I would like to dwell on that separately. It's good to mark that Fiom receives women who have doubts. The fact that these women stress that a period of reflection can be useful therefore makes sense. Some women appreciate a period of reflection, others have difficulty with that, as we have just discussed. When asked whether it should remain compulsory, it appeared that women do not see the point at all in the fact that the period of reflection is mandatory, but in the fact that the doctor listens carefully to the woman, she points out that she can and may take the time for this decision, and that the doctor provides her with clear and good information. As a woman in response to Fiom's poll described, "It's more about having a good conversation with you and really listening to you than how much time you have left to think about it, I think." In other words, the Fiom research is mainly a support for a flexible period of reflection, not for the mandatory five days. Furthermore, Mrs Bikker and Mr van Houwelingen had the question of whether the initiators have any concerns that will increase regret among women who opt for pregnancy termination when the mandatory period of reflection would be abolished. That's what just came along in the interrupting. That question is based on a causal link between the statutory period of reflection and the choice-out. That connection has not been established, as I have just described. After all, the women who had doubts during the consultation period already had them before the first interview with the doctor. For them there is always room to take time. They also mention that two thirds of caregivers would be in favour of a period of reflection. The second evaluation says that caregivers think about this nuancedly. They argue that the current mandatory period of reflection is too rigid. That is exactly what we agree with, because we are also in favour of the scope for a period of reflection as long as it is flexible. On this point and the role of the caregivers, Mrs Kuik will be addressing specifically. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore through the questions that have been given to me in this foursome. I would ask you to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet in a moment, but of course not until after everyone has had their interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u57	That's right. First of all, Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u58	Not everything is what it looks like. If you're a woman in a vulnerable position with a doctor, then I can be very grateful to the doctors, but you're mistaken, that there's a whole different story to that tough thing you see originally. If you also see what was just quoted by Mrs Bikker about what the clinics from the east of the country say, that sometimes someone comes up with a firmer story, but later thinks: was it what I wanted? In concrete terms, what guarantees does this law offer to vulnerable women that it is not too quick and too thoughtless?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u59	I think that is also the point that Mrs Bikker just made, which pointed to women who are in a very vulnerable situation. I have mentioned the guarantees that are now laid down in the law and what responsibility lies with the doctor. I have also indicated that we see in practice and in the studies that this is going well and that we can have that confidence in those doctors. Mrs Ellemeet will discuss exactly how this relates to women who are in the most vulnerable situations, or in situations where there may be pressure on those women to make a decision, because that is indeed a very important and justified question. That is why we are going to consider this separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u60	I would like to look at Mrs Bikker to see if she will wait until Mrs Ellemeet makes her contribution. That is not the case. Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u61	I have an interruption at another point. At this point I am waiting for Mrs Ellemeet's very nice answers. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte a question just to be sure. The balance in the law between the autonomy of women and the value of unborn life, should I be with Mr Paternotte on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u63	Okay, I remember that right before I see the initiators looking at each other again: help, there she is again!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u64	We have a strong delegation, that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u65	Back to that question. I also put this question to Mrs Westerveld. What I think is that our views on this bill are colliding is how you look at the value of unborn life. However, I would like to try to find each other a little more in that or at least a little more understanding for how you look at it. When I read the answers of the initiators, I see that up to the 24-week abortion limit, it is mainly the woman who determines how she weighs that life. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u66	If you ask the question whether, in our view, the choice is ultimately up to the woman, then that's right, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u67	'Cause to me that's somewhere... When you're talking about the question "what is life?" And "what is the value of that baby that grows? ..." especially when you see a 20-week echo, that's a whole baby. I think that is a complicated point of view, because at that time, if everything is already laid out, you will put everything into the choice of that woman alone. While at other times, in other legislation, for example, take the law mandatory ggz say: if a mother does things that are not good for that unborn life, then we will give that woman treatment or do something that does not disturb that unborn life anymore, even though that mother ignores it. I would ask the author to reflect further on how he weighed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u68	I think this is a very personal question that everyone will answer differently. That's what you noticed here in the debate. That balance was sought in the law and is there, as far as we are concerned, and we want to maintain it. That's clear in itself. But there are also people here who have said in the debate: ideally, we would like it not to be allowed to break down a pregnancy at all, other than when the mother's life is in danger. Others said that we would only allow this in the event of rape or incest. And others, they seem to be in the majority, say: we want to leave the assessment of whether there is an emergency to the woman in the end. And frankly, as a man, I think I'm also a little reluctant to talk about that. I think it's a very personal choice. I'll never stand for that choice myself. And I think it is very important that we leave that choice to women, albeit with all the guarantees that there are to establish that this choice is made on a voluntary basis. I have just listed these guarantees repeatedly. It must be ensured that this choice has been considered, that alternatives have also been considered and that women have been informed. And a period of reflection must be agreed between the doctor and the woman who conducts that conversation, a period of reflection appropriate to the situation in which that woman is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u70	We can reduce this to personal opinions, but at the same time this is about a law that also speaks standards from the government about how this choice should be implemented. That's why I honestly don't understand. In other legislation, especially around that unborn life, we say at some point: the government intervenes to protect that unborn life. So that also has a value in itself. I just honestly don't understand why we're putting that all alone with that woman right now. Or at least, I don't see how the proposers maintain that balance somewhere in the bill. There is really my quest in the vision of the question: what is life? On the one hand, you can of course differ greatly personally, or have a very good conversation about it. But even as a government you will eventually find some of this. I continue to find it very difficult that the proposers choose to say: up to 24 weeks it is subjective with the woman, and then no longer. There is my request to the proposers, even if they continue with this legislative process. Do they want to reflect even more on that? How do we do justice to that value of life, especially if we choose to take out or flexibilise this period of reflection? I really miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u71	Perhaps Mrs Bikker does not mean it, but I get the impression that the impression is given that with the abolition of the period of reflection safeguards all will disappear and there will actually be no more, and it is a question of a woman who decides alone. I would like to point out, however, that Article 5 of the law builds that guarantee and we leave it completely intact. Article 5 states that there are requirements. Of course, this has also been done in the decision, and also incorporated in the directives. The requirements are "to ensure that any decision to terminate pregnancy is taken with care and is carried out only if an emergency situation of the woman makes it inevitable." Then there is a list of the cases where the doctor has to ascertain the steps to be taken, and of all matters which must be included in the interview and decision. They remain intact and we maintain them, because we are convinced that they will also contribute to that careful decision. It is only in the investigations that we see that the mandatory fixed period of reflection does not contribute to that careful decision. In other words, the safeguards that help us, including in that pillar of the protection of unborn life, remain intact. And that mandatory period of reflection, which doesn't help with that, we're gonna delete it. In our view, this period of reflection does not help. We'll conclude on the basis of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mrs. Bikker, very briefly now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u73	I understand that, Mr President, but Mr Paternotte has my question here somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u74	Sure, so I'll give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u75	For as Mr Paternotte explains, I do not mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u76	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u77	I see that the government in the law on the one hand says that unborn life also has value in itself. And I see that the proposers say: up to 24 weeks it is by this law the mother who makes her decision. That's in the answer to the Chamber. That's where I care. I hear Mr Paternotte now saying that there are all kinds of guarantees in there and I really want that to be done right. But at the same time he writes this together with the initiators. So I find in those answers that the value of unborn life, or of life in that mother, has been completely deposited with that mother for up to 24 weeks. In doing so, I really wonder: did you also check for other legislation, in which the government does say that we have that life to protect at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u78	Sure. Part of this legislation will be dealt with in greater detail later. It is true that there are people, political parties who say: we believe that the government should choose that restriction not from 24 weeks, but from 6 weeks, for example. Or they want that restriction to exist at all. This is also reflected in the debate. You can see that these people and political parties are actually there in all countries. They feel that this choice should not be a woman's choice. It is true that, with all the guarantees I have just mentioned and which we really think are very important, we do believe that the choice is ultimately up to women. I don't think we'll be able to agree on that very soon either. But it is right to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u79	I appreciate the reluctance of this author to take part in the considerations made by women. I understand and appreciate that. At the same time, I feel the need to add to what the author has said about the balance that exists in the law between the protection of unborn life and the right to self-determination and the emergency situation of women, that experience shows that, in a situation which they characterize as an emergency situation, women themselves also weigh up the protection of that unborn life and the undesirableness of pregnancy. That is not what the author says, but it has to be said. Of course, we are here as co-legislators and we each judge the law for ourselves. At the same time, I think it would be undesirable for that element to be snowed under in our debate. This is, of course, also at the same time the care that women take and which is also taken into account in the conversation with the doctor. That's what's at the heart of it. This is also an intrinsic value that is in women's consideration. I would like to give that to the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u80	I can only agree to that. Where I say that I fit some restraint, I do look at all the messages I read, at all the conversations I make and also at emails in which I see examples. For example, I read about a woman who had been diagnosed with a very serious disease, causing the child to suffer for a lifetime and need constant care. Then this woman was confronted with that mandatory period of reflection and with what it does to a woman. When I see that, I do think that this underlines what Mrs Ploumen is saying, namely how important it is that the government does not decide at its core what period of reflection is necessary for such an emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u81	I see Mr Stoffer. There will be three other initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u82	I know that, Mr. Chairman. But with me a chord was touched when Mr Paternotte spoke of "constraint" in the sense that it is a situation that concerns a woman, which he will never experience. I hope he will never see it, but does Mr Paternotte agree with me that paternity in this matter is also essential, and does he agree with me that the role of a father, whether from conception or whenever in the life of a child, is essential, and that we should at least put forward here in politics that not only mothers should take responsibility for this and beyond, but also fathers? Besides, I look at him as a father to father.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think it is up to women to choose, but it is undoubtedly true that the father's role in this choice can also play a role. That is why I think it is very important that the responsibility of the father is also laid down by law, much better than ever before, when an unwanted pregnancy was always the ultimate responsibility of the woman, regardless of the choice that was made. I also think it is very important that this role of the father and the responsibility that the father has and which is also laid down by law should they play a role in the doubt. For a woman makes that choice knowing indeed that a father cannot avoid his responsibility. Mrs Kuik also discusses the role of the fathers and the men in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Paternotte. We'll clean up for a while and then I'll give Mrs Ellemeet the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I think this is a very important day in this Parliament. You should know that it is also a very important and significant day for me personally. As a Member of Parliament, I do not experience this very often. I got a lot of work on this. I don't give a shit about that. I would also like to mention all those women and also men in the Netherlands who have been fighting for so many years to further improve our abortion legislation. I would like to mention three here in particular which I would like to thank. First of all, that is Mrs Pia Dijkstra. She has worked very hard on this bill and she has been a source of inspiration to me in recent years. So thank you! Secondly, I would like to mention Mrs Lilianne Ploumen. Lady "SheDecides." I don't think that's gonna need much more explanation. Thank you very much. Thirdly, finally, I would like to mention all those abortion doctors who do such good and important work in our country. It is a relatively small profession, which manages to keep the quality of care so high. In particular, I would like to mention Mrs Monique Ophéij. I thank her for all her work. And, also on her behalf, thanks to all the other abortion doctors. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions that have been asked. The first question I would like to answer is Mrs Ploumen's question about the presence of a flexible period of reflection in other countries. It's in different countries. The Scandinavian countries have a flexible period of reflection. France, too, since 2015. But countries such as Romania, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria, as well as a number of states in America, also have a flexible period of reflection. Research shows that the flexible period of reflection in these countries has not led to careless decision-making. In fact, careful decision-making on abortion is still intact in those countries. Furthermore, the adverse effects of a mandatory multi-day reflection period have been removed in those countries. That too is important to note. Mr. Chairman. In last week's debate, and indeed now in the discussions that have taken place, I noticed that all the groups attach great importance to careful decision-making. That is quite right. Mr Paternotte has already discussed in detail the relationship between the mandatory fixed period of reflection and careful decision-making. I will focus here on the role of health professionals, particularly, of course, the abortion doctors. Professional good abortion care as we know it in the Netherlands is about appropriate help for women in an emergency. The working methods of abortion doctors are extensively laid down in guidelines. The two main directives for abortion care are the Guidance Directive and the Treatment Directive. These are developed on the basis of experience and research and are also updated periodically. So every time there are new scientific insights, they are incorporated into the directive. The current Guidance Directive covers 156 pages. So there is a very precise definition of which all must be met. This Directive has been drawn up by a working group consisting, inter alia, of gynecologists, abortion doctors, clinical psychologists, an ethicist and a health lawyer. In other words, the composition of the working group which drew up this directive has done justice to all aspects. In order to give you an idea of what is being discussed in such a directive, I would like to mention a number of recommendations contained in this directive. For example, point 4.3 deals with exploring the emergency situation of women and addressing their motivations. It states that the doctor must verify the informed nature of the woman's decision and that the woman is asked whether she has considered alternatives and whether she wishes to have information on them. Point 4.5 deals with the influence of women in the decision-making process. It states that the behaviour of the woman for the aid worker can be an indication that emotions such as fear, shame or guilt play a role, and that the aid worker should also notice and discuss non-verbal signals. An abortion doctor will therefore not proceed to a termination of pregnancy if it senses that the woman is in doubt or under pressure. That is what the directive says, and I quote: 'If the observation is that women are in doubt and remain in doubt, then specialized assistance for decision-making discussions must be considered'. Mr. Chairman. Why am I giving all this information about the directive now? This is mainly to show that professional guidance and decision-making around whether or not to opt for a pregnancy break is and remains a very careful process. All these elements of the Directive continue to apply. The flexible period of reflection proposed by us contributes to this. In addition, the inspection shall monitor compliance with the Directives. This has been discussed with Mr Paternotte for a while. That was also a question from Mrs Bikker. This also answers Mrs van der Plas' question, which asked whether the mandatory fixed period of reflection is not an appropriate part of good care and tailor-made work. I agree with Mrs van der Plas that a period of reflection is part of good concern. However, a flexible period of reflection contributes to the ability to answer the specific question of the woman and to the guidance of the caregiver. By abolishing the mandatory nature of the five-day period, we are better able to deliver tailor-made work, and we are giving the abortion doctors in the Netherlands the opportunity to provide good care, as specifically laid down in the directives. Mr. Chairman. A number of other members, including Mrs Hermans, Bikker, Van der Plas and Palland and Mr Stoffer, considered the possibility of forcing women to break off pregnancy and the role of the period of reflection. An important point to discuss. It begins with the distinction between two forms of coercion. On the one hand, there is the compulsion to opt for an abortion, and on the other hand, there is the compulsion to refrain from abortion, which unfortunately also exists. Let me begin by saying that in the training of our abortion doctors there is plenty of attention to identifying stress in women and finding out what is causing it. The cause could be compulsion. If an abortionist senses doubt and stress, this doctor will make this talkable with the woman. And only if the abortionist is convinced that the woman has made a well-considered and careful decision, so if she is convinced of that, then she will not give up pregnancy. And I cannot repeat the sentence often enough: that is very good and carefully secured in the guidelines and in the practice of our professional abortion doctors. The Guidance Directive also addresses the subject of coercion. For example, point 4.8 deals with the suspicion of violence. There's talk about informing people about violence, about signaling them how do you signal this? (b) to ensure the safety of women. National and international investigations do not show in any way that the mandatory five-day period of reflection contributes to the prevention of a decision by a woman under duress. What we do know, and what has also been scientifically proven, is that this is prevented by professional guidance and by the quality of the assistance - and again, the quality of the assistance is really high in the Netherlands. Mrs Hermans specifically asked us what we can do to make caregivers more sensitive to vulnerability and pressure on women. I have just argued that we can rest assured that the quality of our abortion care is very high, including professional guidance, and that the detection of stress and compulsion is exceptionally good. Abortion doctors are already actively testing for volunteering and pressure from outside. This doesn't change, and abortion doctors are trained, trained and experienced in this. They reflect on what they see and hear. They reflect on what they see and hear, verbally, and non-verbally. At the same time, it is right that Mrs Hermans wants to know if there are ways of improving care even further. I think that is right, because that is something we should always strive for; we should always want to do it better. That is why I would like to pass on this question to the Minister. Perhaps he could talk to the Society of Abortion Doctors again to see what additional support they would like. This is in fact in line with Mr Hijink's question. He wondered whether additional investments would be needed in abortion care in order to maintain quality. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have also answered Mrs Ploumen's question on informed consent with my explanation of professional assistance. Due to the careful working methods of abortion doctors, based on the guidelines, women can make their choice well informed, and this can be followed up by doctors. Having said that, I think it would also be appropriate to consider the amendment tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van der Plas under No. 13 - if I'm not mistaken. They argue that a fixed period of reflection may be desirable on medical grounds in the event of termination of pregnancy in the second trimester. I do not think this is necessary, since there is good and careful information about medical consequences during the second trimester of pregnancy. If there is cause, women and doctors will choose a period of reflection. Here again, therefore, the Guidance Directive already provides sufficient guarantees for a careful decision-making process, which also takes into account the medical consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u86	Let me see what your appreciation of the amendment is. Can you give it to me right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u87	Yeah, if that's the point, it's not recommended. For that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u88	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u89	I would like to respond, because I think it is too close a reading of the amendment. There is indeed something in it about the somewhat later period. I recognized myself very much in Mr Paternotte's words that it is good to flexibilise because there are a lot of different situations of pregnancy break-up where different women need different things in a different period of time with a different type of intervention. That is exactly what the amendment is about. We ask for a guide, a hand-out for the doctors who have to carry out this guidance, together with the suggestion for a medical period of care, so that it is not completely left in the air that one can choose somewhere between zero days and a much longer period. For example, in the case of the abortion pill at a time of eight weeks, this can be suggested and in the case of an instrumental abortion at twenty weeks, which is a completely different situation, one could suggest this. In this way, there is a guideline suggesting the time limit of medical care for doctors, where the inspection can also be checked if it is said afterwards that something has gone wrong. So it's exactly as a hold-on for the doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u90	I'm sorry I interpreted it a little too closely. As I have just said, there are very comprehensive and detailed directives. The beauty of this is that it comes from the profession and the professionals themselves. It is up to us to establish the legal framework. We are proposing that the period of reflection should be flexible so that it is better suited to the provision of good abortion care. What Mrs Pouw-Verweij refers to is actually a further development of the directive, if I understand her correctly. Of this, I say that I do not think that this is up to us as legislators, but to the professionals. Much has already been worked out in the directive on what is desirable at what point in view of the medical condition of women. I know that the abortion doctors and all professionals continue to reflect on how the guidelines can be developed and developed so that care can be improved on a permanent basis. So my answer is this. I think it's up to the professionals to work this out and not to us as legislators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u91	I think Mrs Ellemeet and I are in complete agreement on that. Nor do I think that we should interfere with the content of such guidance. That is not up to us; that is something I would also like to see happen from the point of view of care. I think, however, that precisely because of the directives that exist, it is clear that there is a need from the field for a structure and for what good care looks like and how to implement it. That has so far been done within the framework of the fixed period of reflection. If the proposal is adopted, we will remove it as a Chamber. I call for a hand-out, an offer, in the sense of an alternative within the medical context. I made the suggestion for the Health and Youth Inspectorate, but that may also be another organisation. So it's a hand-off for the medical field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u92	We are submitting this bill because, on the basis of all the research we have, we come to the conclusion that such a flexible period of reflection is more in line with practice and the provision of good care. We also note that the professional himself can develop in guidelines how he wants to proceed. I understand that Mrs Pouw-Verweij says that it would be good to think about how such a guidance can contribute to that good care and provide a flexible period of reflection. I would like to come back to this in the second term, because I had interpreted it a little more closely. But in essence, my view is that we should leave the effects to the field, to the professional. We should not sit in the chair of the professional as legislator. But I will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u93	This means that in the second period there will be a slight return to the amendment on item No. 13. That was first of all the amendment to item No. 12. I give the floor to Mrs Palland and then to Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u94	I hear Mrs Ellemeet rightly pay attention to the careful practice we know in the Netherlands in the abortion care and the role of the doctor and the professional in it. There are guidelines for that. I've taken note of that, too. It is right that she should emphasise this. But then I wonder: how is it going to work in practice if this bill is passed? The doctor will perform that check, asking questions. Say, he feels like it's not right, but the woman insists: I want to get rid of this, I've thought about it, I want to be treated right now. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u95	This is based on the current legislation. It is therefore always the doctor who must come to a careful and well-considered decision. If there is any doubt with a doctor whether a woman has made a careful and well-considered decision or if the doctor thinks it is incorrect, the doctor goes further and further into conversation with the woman. That is the current legislation. The most important task for the doctor in the abortion legislation is to determine that the woman has come to an informed and careful decision. There may be all kinds of reasons why it isn't. That's the doctor's test. This is already the case in the current law, and we are not changing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u96	It's good to get that straight. But it is possible that a woman reacts in this way because she experiences, for example, urge or compulsion from her surroundings. There is now a minimum period of thought, so time has been bought in that sense. There can be rest. That's a definite fact. That is now being made flexible. It will also have to take account of this in its surroundings. Can you imagine the pressure and compulsion it gives when the doctor says he wants to continue talking, when the woman doesn't want to because she experiences that pressure? Then there's nothing to fall back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u97	I am not concerned about that, because I have a great deal of faith in the way our abortion doctors operate. The quality is very high. The directives also set out very carefully how to act. I have also explained it, but we also see that there is a specific reference to the signaling of compulsion and the signaling of pressure. So if there is any doubt with the doctor, then this legislation will also be discussed. So nothing changes there too. A doctor will therefore never proceed to treatment if there is any doubt. A doctor will also do everything in his power to ensure the safety of women. It was, it is, and it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u98	Finally, Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u99	Yeah, finally. I understand. That's the doctor's role. Well, that's not gonna matter what it's like for that woman at the time. But I would like to ask the initiators: why didn't you choose to take those five days as the starting point, and only in exceptional cases to flexibilise them? Why leave the whole base out and raise it to standard? Why not take the five days as a starting point, where you can deviate from that in certain situations by mutual agreement? Why wasn't that chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u100	There are a number of important reasons for this. First of all, research, both national and international, shows that these mandatory five days do not contribute to the quality of care. I also think it is important to note the following. We are right to talk about women who may be subject to coercion. But I do not want to ignore all those women who have decided independently to abort their unwanted pregnancy. That's the majority of it, isn't it? These women are now hampered and sometimes even damaged by that fixed period of reflection. And precisely because removing that fixed five-day period of reflection does not harm the quality of care even more, it removes disadvantages and we also know from other countries and on the basis of research that moving to a flexible period of reflection is effective and contributes to the quality of care, I see no reason to follow Mrs Palland's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mrs Hermans van de VVD and then Mr Hijink van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you to the initiator for the detailed explanation of the guidelines for treatment and guidance. I still have a question about the substance of the legislative amendment that is before us, as stated in Article 3, which now states: 'The doctor and the woman determine together what the period of reflection must be'. Then it's about the length of it. Could Mrs Ellemeet perhaps go into more detail about what this process looks like?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u103	Sure. Thanks for the question. That is what the 156 pages of the directive are about. In it, all stages have been discussed in great detail. What questions should the doctor ask? Think of the following questions, for example. How did women come to the decision-making process, if she is already very sure? Does she need alternatives or not? Has she come to a decision on her own? Is there some kind of coercion? That can be very explicit, but as I said, there may also be non-verbal signs that a doctor takes seriously. So that's a whole process. Like I said, a lot of women know exactly what they want. So the conversation can be shorter and the doctor will be more convinced of it. For the exceptions, which are at least as important and also require a careful process, all these steps have been worked out and the doctors follow all the steps required.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you. I understand. Only, now the period of reflection is five days. The arguments for making it more flexible have been widely exchanged. That's what I'm sharing. But in the law we now write: "wife and doctor come together for a term." Will that deadline be set, too? Is there any agreement on that? Or does that remain in the physician's assessment and can it determine when the assessment has been carefully made?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u105	Sorry, I didn't get that. That is indeed a result of the conversation between the doctor and the woman. They'll see if there's any doubt. If it isn't, it's obvious. If there is any doubt, it will again depend on the questions that the woman still has. For example, the doubts can be so great that an abortion doctor indicates that it would be good to have other conversations. I can imagine that the reflection period will be longer, perhaps as long as it takes. It will depend each time on the specific situation of the woman. The woman will check with the abortion doctor what period is necessary and desirable, given the specific questions or doubts that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u106	I agree with Mrs Ellemeet that a fixed legal period of five days does not necessarily contribute to careful and better care. I understand Mrs Hermans' question very well. As far as I am concerned, this zero-minute period, the zero-minute period, is perhaps the most difficult point in the law of the proposers. That's the issue when a woman comes into a clinic and says in the conversation with the doctor that she finds zero minutes enough. I also understand that the authors say: it is ultimately up to the woman to give the final judgment on how long that period of reflection should be. Then what are we doing in those situations where, in any way, there is a form of coercion? How then is it prevented from taking a hasty decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u107	Then those zero minutes may indeed be a little misleading. Because the situation is already, and will be, that a woman will always talk to an abortion doctor. So there will always be a careful conversation. What remains proud is that the doctor must make sure that the woman has come to an informed and careful decision. That is the case under the current law, and that remains the case with us. You can't make sure of that if you haven't had a conversation with that woman. The interaction between the woman and the doctor thus remains. The same applies to this important responsibility of the doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you, but can I ask how that will work out in practice, just very concretely? A woman comes in and has that conversation. The doctor in question thinks: I think it would be wise to wait a while, to have another additional conversation. Is that gonna happen? Is that mandatory? Is that conversation gonna happen anyway? What happens at the moment when a woman insists on her desire to go straight to treatment, to hold on to zero minutes? So what's it like in practice and what does it look like? Is something going to be done on the same day, or is there going to be a delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u109	What is now well laid down in the law and what we keep, is that there is also a responsibility for the doctor. So, to put it mildly, a doctor may doubt whether a woman has made an informed decision. I also spoke to an abortion doctor who said: there are exceptional situations in which a woman says "yes" when everything in her eyes indicates that it is actually "no." Then an abortion doctor won't make a decision. It's about the interaction. It is up to the woman to come to that informed decision. It's her decision. But it's up to the doctor to make sure it's an informed and independent decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u111	That's clear. I also think that this is a good way of putting it. Then my question is: what then? What happens next? Now you have a legal period of five days. Then you know that at least for the next five days there will be no treatment. What then happens in the situation that Mrs Ellemeet has just described? Is there going to be another time? Is there going to be a new conversation? What does that look like in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u112	Yes, then there will be a new moment, so the process will continue. Of course, it's about the interaction between the abortion doctor and the woman. As I say, it can be very extreme situations, in which a woman has very serious doubts and so on. For example, it is said: talk to the Fiom, or perhaps with your GP; that also happens. But what Mr Hijink means is: the woman insists that she wants it, if I understand him correctly, and the doctor has doubts about it. Then the conversation will indeed continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you. I am looking at Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union, who still has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mr President, for the interruption by Mr Hijink. In that conversation it appears that women have social or more practical reasons why they do not like it at the time, for example housing. That could be a very real one. Or, the second example, a young woman who thinks: can I, that motherhood? What do the initiators expect from a doctor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u115	What we expect from a doctor is actually exactly what they're doing now. In the end, it is up to the woman, in the emergency situation in which she finds herself, to consider those words that are also used in the law. So it's not up to us, it's not up to the legislator to implement it. The point is that this is carefully weighed by the woman. The doctor has the responsibility to ensure that this is a careful consideration. So in the end, it's up to the woman to come to a conclusion. The doctor must be sure that this has been a careful process, that the woman is convinced of it. So we cannot make a checklist here in this Chamber, or indicate: if it concerns these, these and these elements, then it does not count, then we exclude it from an emergency. That is not the case in the current law either. In that sense, we make that decision very clear to the woman to interpret it, so that does not change our legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mrs Ellemeet and I find each other very often when it comes to the capacity of citizens, where we sometimes think too easily about what kind of people are complicated, for example finding a house when the waiting lists are long. Or seeking appropriate help at the moment you're in a violent situation. That's why I'm more specific. The doctor could say, "I think it would be wise for you to engage in that conversation." For that woman, it can be quite complicated to make that happen. What does Mrs Ellemeet see, or rather what does the proposers see in it, precisely as elements that could help to increase women's freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u117	How we can increase the freedom of choice is by allowing the abortion doctor to play his or her role very carefully. The point is that this doctor must enable the woman to make that weighting, to do it freely, to interpret it himself: how difficult do I weigh circumstances that can be decisive for me? In the end, that decision is up to the woman. It is, of course, very important that this abortion doctor plays a crucial role in preventing, for example, a decision from being taken in panic. That's what our abortion doctors do. They also indicate that this is a careful process. I would like to stress once again that it is fortunately not necessary for a lot of women, and that the five-day period is absolutely unnecessary. In some women more time is needed and no longer those abortion doctors more time. So we're not gonna change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u118	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u119	I'm almost done. Finally, I would like to make two points. The first was about the questions that had been asked about contraception by a number of fractions, about preventing unwanted pregnancies. It was also about contraception in the basic package. That's beyond the scope of this bill. It will not be a surprise how I personally feel about that, but that is not the issue here, so I would also like to pass that question on to the Minister. Maybe he has some bright insights about this beyond the scope of this bill. Then it was also about how to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Let it be clear that I and we, as proposers, are also keen to avoid as many unwanted pregnancies as possible. That is a broader task. It also has to do with sexual education, the availability of contraception, I have already said it, and the prevention of repeated pregnancy breaks. That's why it's so important that women can get contraception through the clinic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. We're gonna clean up and then I'm gonna give Mrs. Kuik the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u121	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Paternotte said earlier, I will consider the position and vision of abortion doctors, the other period of reflection in relation to both the medical domain and private law and the role of men and women in the decision-making process surrounding the decision to abort pregnancy. Mrs Ellemeet ended her reply with the importance of contraception. It's a great effort to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Nevertheless, better or well-run policies will always have to be felt or weighed to opt for termination of pregnancy. Abortion doctors are ideally able to accompany women carefully. It is not for nothing that Mr Stoffer asked us specifically in his term of office about the opinion and vision of the abortion doctors in this matter. So that's a fair question. Mr Stoffer mentioned, among other things, the news from RTV Oost, saying that several clinics support the fixed period of reflection. According to this report, a period of reflection would be useful because it would benefit women, also because each woman is in a unique social context. Let that unique social context be the reason for this bill. We want to respond to this, precisely because every woman is unique. Precisely because every situation is unique. That is precisely why it is important to deliver customization. The period of reflection remains legal; only its mandatory nature is abolished. That's how customization is created. By the way, we also found out that a number of doctors working in these clinics were not happy with the way in which they were highlighted in the mentioned article of RTV Oost. I will not go into that now, but I think it is important to mention that nuance. Even more important to mention and emphasise is that among abortion doctors there is a great deal of support for abolishing the mandatory period of reflection. They see the negative effects of the mandatory fixed period of reflection on women. This does not mean that they do not want a period of reflection at all; they want it to be adapted to the unique and personal situation and needs of a woman. That is why the reflection period also remains. This will only be flexible, so that doctors still have the possibility to set a period of reflection, even under the Law of Abruption pregnancy. This is in line with the point made by Mrs Westerveld. She said that we should ask women what they need to make a good choice. We must not tell the woman how long she has to think about it, but we must above all help her to make a good choice, which fits her situation, the situation of her partnership and the situation in which she has to make a choice at a very difficult time. Mrs Westerveld was right to ask us whether we could better support these women. This bill does not offer immediate hooks to make this possible. It is, of course, a legitimate question, and it is therefore important to mention that women are generally very satisfied with the care we have taken with the termination of pregnancy, but it is of course always possible to take additional measures. That is why I think it would be good if Minister Kuipers were to go into this more closely, and a number of questions have been asked to him on this subject. I think it is a good thing for the Chamber to tell him that he is entering into the conversation with the Society of Abortion Doctors and that he is also taking this specific question and wish with him. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my second point: the period of reflection in relation to other medical interventions and private law. A number of Members, including Mrs Westerveld, asked for other medical interventions with a mandatory fixed period of reflection. This is not laid down in any law. We have come across a legally mandatory period of reflection within the Embryo Act, but it has no mandatory duration and is therefore flexible, just as we intend to do with our legislative proposal. Mrs Bikker asked Mr Paternotte about the ggz. Isn't that where we make the choice for a woman? That's right, because prenatal supervision can be pronounced during pregnancy. But here we are talking about a situation where there is no willingness, as we call it. Legally, I can endorse and explain that even more clearly, but I think Mrs Bikker knows exactly what I mean. It is therefore a different situation than the one of choosing to terminate pregnancy, because there is no willlessness. Mr Stoffer made the comparison between pregnancy and cosmetic surgery because cosmetic surgery is subject to a mandatory period of reflection, he states. In my view, there are two important differences in this comparison which, in our opinion, do not make this comparison. Firstly, the period of reflection surrounding a cosmetic procedure is not laid down by law. Doctors themselves have opted for a quality framework and the drafting of guidelines in order to apply a mandatory reflection period along three categories. I can inform you in detail about this, but that is not the portee of his question. If doctors think that they consider it necessary to apply a mandatory period of reflection, they are free to do so. In Dutch health care, it is very common for doctors to determine what good care is, and they will be checked for it. Secondly, I think that Mr Stoffer can agree with this. Aborting a pregnancy is about a woman in distress. She must be able to be well-helped. In the case of cosmetic surgery, there is probably a great desire, but not such an emergency. That is why I believe that these two matters should and can be separated. In this light, Mr Van Houwelingen made the comparison with buying a house. This also applies to a period of reflection. Here too, however, there is a fairly important difference: the termination of pregnancy is not a purchase, nor does it involve a financial risk, nor does it have any private law or consumer law to protect it. I think I have made it very clear why this comparison does not apply either. Mrs. Westerveld... I call her again.....appointed this beautifully: you don't break off pregnancy on order. You don't give it to as many doctors as possible to break down as many pregnancies as possible. These are women in emergency situations who must be helped as effectively as possible. The mandatory fixed period of reflection does not contribute to good help and does not contribute to careful decision-making. It's patronizing, patronizing, and that's why we're abolishing it. Mr. Chairman. In exceptional cases, it was already possible to deviate from the statutory fixed period of reflection if the life and health of women were in danger or in danger. This exception to the period of reflection was cited, inter alia, by Mrs Van der Plas in her questions. This article, which makes an exception to the period of reflection, also lapses with our legislative proposal. You could choose to maintain this exception article, because the period of reflection basically continues. However, since the mandatory nature of this article is no longer applicable, it is not logical to maintain it. Mrs Van der Plas also wondered whether abortions were refused in the Netherlands. Before going into this question, I would like to say something about the way in which this question has been formulated. When you get to an abortion doctor as a woman, you're gonna look together and try to figure out what's best for you as a woman in that particular case. That is what the legislation is about, and that is what the directives are about. Mr Paternotte and Mrs Ellemeet have already described quite precisely what these directives look like and what the legal guarantees are at present. That does not mean that abortions are refused. This means that a different choice can sometimes be made by the woman in consultation with the doctor. For example, a woman can of course choose to carry a pregnancy out anyway, because she sees alternatives or because she has changed her mind or because she didn't want the appointment at all. Those are all possibilities that can arise. Mr Van Houwelingen mentioned the percentage of 6.5%. In our records, that's the people who don't show up for the first appointment. As far as we know, there are no figures of the number of women who choose to carry out pregnancy after a consultation. If there are, we will submit it to you in second term. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my final subject: the position and division of roles between men and women when choosing to break down or carry out pregnancy. Mrs Bikker, Mr Van Houwelingen and Mrs Van der Plas also considered this. I agree with Mrs Bikker that in this society too much attention is being paid to women in terms of pregnancy and birth. It is mainly seen as her responsibility to protect herself from pregnancy. It carries the burden if it chooses to continue a pregnancy. She is sometimes lonely in the choice when it comes to the decision to abort a pregnancy. At the same time, I think it is extremely important to say that this is about a woman's choice. A choice that Mrs. Bikker may make. It's about her body. The man has a role at the moment the pregnancy occurs. Of course, he is equally responsible for the use of contraception. But once there is a pregnancy, only the woman, only she, can determine what happens to it. It's her body, so her choice and her responsibility. In the legal sense, the man has no role when it comes to choosing to abort a pregnancy. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the answers to the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u122	I think Mrs Palland has one more question. That's the case. And then Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u123	You also mentioned the role of doctors and how they view this. Following on from the conversation we had with Mrs Ellemeet about the situation that the doctor says that he or she has a role to play in the conversation. Those guidelines are there and we experience this professionalism in practice. But that doctor can also experience a certain back coverage in that fixed term. At least those five days are there. They may not have to, but they are now. Mrs Ellemeet said: what if the doctor has a sense of non-fluisance and the woman stays with her, likes to be treated and no longer has to think about it, because she has already done so? Then there will have to be a follow-up. That puts a little pressure on the affair and the conversation. That's gonna be a nasty conversation. Don't we also run the risk that this woman will then "shopping" is a misplaced term "shopping" to see where she can go faster? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u124	These are very legitimate questions that Mrs Palland is asking. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again that this is no different in current practice. This is also true with the five-day reflection period: under Article 20 of the legislation, no doctor is obliged to treat or cooperate with a woman in the termination of pregnancy if he or she has concerns about it. So that too doesn't change the current practice. The same directives apply, the same considerations, and there are the same steps to follow. Suppose a doctor says, "I have a sense of non-flushing here, and I'd like a thought-out period." When a woman says "I don't want a period of thought," no doctor can perform an act against his or her will. This is currently laid down in Article 20 of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u125	That point is very clear. But he or she, the doctor, still has those five days before that conversation, and they're certain, what that woman would want to go to. So at least you have that time together. And I also hear you say that in other areas, in the case of cosmetic interventions, I believe, a quality framework has at least been included. So it's not in the law, but it's in the quality framework. A little further to what Mrs Pouw-Verweij said, I would ask you: do you think that there should be some sort of basis in a quality framework, in the directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u126	You're confusing two things now. Cosmetic reflection periods have two different things, also because they have a consumer law aspect in them, but that is not the portee of your question. Firstly, there is no change in the situation of doctors, how to act when they are confronted with a woman they think of: here is doubt, here is compulsion or urge, here is a vulnerable position. This is because he or she, that doctor, still acts on the same legal basis as the guidelines, which describe even more carefully how to act. So if you have five days and a woman says "I want to be treated today," but the doctor has a sense of non-flavor, he or she says to the woman in question: I don't do that right now, because I think it's wise for you to think. Then a woman may choose to go to another doctor, but a doctor cannot be forced to do anything against his or her mind. That is why I do not think that Mrs Pouw-Verweij's amendment is a further addition to what is already well secured in both the legislation, including our legislation, and in the directives that are constantly being evaluated and applied, precisely in order to prevent such situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u127	You will come back to the amendment in the second term, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u128	Sure. We need to be even more specific there, but I think that makes it even clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mrs van der Plas van BBB, then Mrs Hermans and then Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Kuik, for the explanation. I did have a question about refusing or not honoring a request. A non-honored request does lead to serious circumstances, trauma, or whatever. That's being argued. This is taken from a survey carried out by the NSAG in 2005. It's from an investigation 30 years ago, 1991, from America. It quotes from that study and therefore concludes in 2005 that there are serious consequences. My question in the debate was: why is it quoted from 30-year-old dates? I think it's a little thin to say, "Once upon a time, 30 years ago, there was an investigation in America. That has proved to be the case, and that is what we are taking over."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u131	It is a bit of a repetition of the question put to Mr Paternotte. Of course, it's not one investigation. By the way, abortion legislation is quite old. It is therefore not very exceptional or crazy to refer to investigations that have taken place some time ago, because it is a long legal history. That's one point. To answer your question in a very specific way: no, it is not just based on the US investigation. Mr Paternotte referred to recent studies, to Fiom's studies and to experiences and opinions, both scientifically and personally, on what is considered desirable from the point of view of practice. I did the same on my own term. As Mr Paternotte said, we have a whole list of all kinds of research that we have carried out. I am more than willing to give it to you in a moment, or to give a further explanation in the second period. Forgive me for not knowing that completely, because how many pages is it? A few.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u132	That's right. It is indeed a number of pages. I've been through it. In fact, surveys from 1978 are quoted. 1978! Then you talk about 40 or almost 50 years ago. There are also studies from 2003 and the 1990s. It's a lot of old data. I'd like new dates. I'd like to know what it's like now. It is important for me to consider whether or not to vote in favour of something. I see that studies from 1978 have been used. You can count on it. I'm not convinced of that. My question is, give me new dates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u133	You have it. Mr Paternotte has given a great deal of thought to this in his term. He's brought in the recent evaluations. They're from the other day. Those are extensive evaluations. At the same time, I think it's right to testify with care that you take the entire legal history with you. That is what we always do in this house when it comes to legislation. We'll look back completely and take all the tests we've been through. You will also find this in all other areas. Mr Paternotte has very carefully mentioned the latest studies and evaluations that have been carried out on abortion legislation and practice. They're all from the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mrs. Kuik indicates that there are pages with sources. I wonder why other old data is included, even from countries very far away from here, where cultural society may be very different and the standards may be very different. I wonder. You cannot compare that one-on-one with the situation today in the Netherlands. I do not want to suggest at all that Mr Paternotte has not been careful, or that this whole initiative group has not been careful. It's just questions I'm asking. When I see that, I think, can we take that one-on-one? It's more for me to get me on this case. We haven't been able to do that so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u136	I'm just looking. I can actually answer again, but I'm just looking. Mr Paternotte mentioned studies from 2021 and from the past five years. It is very common, as I have just pointed out, for legislation that has a long history and an ethical character to take the whole of history, including all research. That is what happens around donor legislation. It's called care. But that's not what you're looking for. Your key question remains: what is a flexible period of reflection now and is that wise? That's the key question. There is only one person who can answer that, and that is Mrs Van der Plas herself. On the basis of women's experience, on the basis of experience and research on abortion practice and abortion doctors, I believe that we have repeatedly stated that it is not a question of abolishing a period of reflection. It's about making it flexible, so that you direct the woman, prevent psychological damage, and prevent pregnancy from unnecessarily ending up in a subsequent phase, which means that it's no longer possible to break down via medication. That is the question Mrs van der Plas has to ask herself. Is she going to go along with the story we argued? That is why it is wise to give women autonomy and self-determination, on the basis of their experience and experience in science, all of which are recent. I hope she will support us in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u137	I have another question for Mrs Kuik in connection with the interrupting debate she has just had with Mrs Palland. The question is about when a doctor in the conversation senses doubt as to whether there is a sense of non-fluisiness, as Mrs Kuik described it just as beautifully. I have a check on that. Here's how it's gonna be. If a doctor who is talking to a woman on day five is now the last day of the compulsory period of reflection at the present time, and at that time that doubt as to whether that sense of non-fluisance is still present or is still present, then the doctor does not have to decide at that time, under current legislation, to discontinue pregnancy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u138	Exactly. So once again, it is already stated in the articles that no one is obliged to treat a woman if that is contrary to concerns about her mind. Then you can say: we will meet another time and you will come back to me. You can also choose to say: I refer you to another doctor, also for a second interview. I would like to put it very carefully, because it is about something very sensitive. Those are all options that are just in the law and are legally secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u139	That responsibility, that element of care, is there regardless of the length of the period of reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u140	Yes. Every doctor is obliged to provide good care, but good care also means that you act with integrity to the guarantees of the law and the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u141	I would like to thank Mrs Kuik for the careful answer to my questions. She rightly indicated that thinking about a cosmetic procedure comes from the doctors' guidelines. I indicated in my questions that, as far as I am concerned, this is not only about the need of the woman, who can be immensely great, but also about the value of unborn life. I'm not the only one pointing that out. The Council of State also states in its opinion that there is little mention of this in the explanatory memorandum. The initiators literally indicate that they in no way want to give rise to the suggestion that this does not give any value to the protection of unborn life. I have also asked how the initiators see the value of that unborn life and how they put it into words. I have not yet heard an answer to that; perhaps Mrs Kuik can give it. This value of unborn life is something I would very much like to see added to it by the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u142	A somewhat business-like reaction, and that is not what I mean, of course, is that the term "unborn life" is laid down by law. That "unborn life" and a period within which you may abort a pregnancy is set at 24 weeks. That is therefore a legal deadline which includes all kinds of safeguards. We know from ggz practice the value of unborn life and that in the event of willlessness you may take measures to protect that unborn life. On many fronts, that unborn life is guaranteed. A side step: Anti-smoking campaigns also target pregnant women and aim indirectly to protect unborn life. In this bill that is about the Law breaking down pregnancy are guaranteeing for unborn life, because there is very carefully the conversation between doctor and woman about how, why, the choices that make the woman feel this need and wish. That's very careful. That goes by certain steps. It is not for nothing that a doctor can say: it seems to me wise that we should have a reflection period. If a doctor is convinced immediately, he can act immediately. This does not change very much the current practice of legislation or the directives. I also saw a motion by Mr Stoffer passing by. It is not up to us to judge this, but these safeguards are in fact already in the current legislation. He also said: shouldn't you think carefully about why women come to this choice? Why are they making this choice? What term do we set? That too is not so much different. So we did think about that. Part of that guarantee is in other areas of legislation. She's in our legislation. She's in the guidelines. That doesn't change much. I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. Ideologically, you can disagree. But we agree that you need to carefully design legislation, taking into account current legislation, views and so on. I only think that we can better protect the unborn life and position of women by moving away from a fixed period of thought and opting for a flexible period of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mr. Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u144	I think Mrs Kikking is right to point out that the ideological difference makes us look at this differently. I have one final question in this context. This law seems to be getting a majority behind it; let us really name it. Could Mrs Kuik imagine that, if that majority were to come, doctors would soon include in their directives here too that there would still be a reflection period of one day, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u145	No, because that would mean that abortion doctors would find that in a majority by now. And the majority of abortion doctors don't think so right now. There may be reasons to opt for a day's thought-out period. This is actually a nice little bridge for me to close my cut. These are also questions that Mrs Tellegen will address.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then we will listen to Mrs Tellegen and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u147	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the proposal from Mr Paternotte, Mr Kuiken, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Tellegen to amend the Law on Abbreviation of Pregnancy. I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an honor for me to be standing here, even though it might sound a little like squirt elf. Of course, I'm the fourth speaker from Box K today. A lot of the answers I would give have been expressed very beautifully by my colleagues. I still have some answers. I'll get to the pilot first. Mrs Bikker wondered whether it was not a good idea to start with a pilot around the flexible period of reflection. From her perspective, I understand. But, frankly, we do not see any point in it because we do not think that this intermediate step is necessary. We believe that there is sufficient reason, on the basis of the assessments already discussed here today in the debate, to bring the possibility of this flexible period of reflection directly into the law. This makes it possible for every woman in the Netherlands at once to come to a flexible period of reflection, in close coordination with the doctor or aid worker, which is better suited to her and her situation. It has already been said by my colleagues: by setting a flexible period of reflection, we are taking a step that is likely to lead to even more tailor-made work, and thus to an even more careful decision-making process. There has also been a lot of exchange of views on the evaluations in this debate. Mrs Bikker, but if I am right also Mrs Palland had questions about the evaluation of this change and about keeping the finger on the wrist. As initiators, we support the importance of a thorough evaluation. This applies to all legislation, including this legislation and this possible legislative amendment. After all, evaluations provide a good insight into how a law ultimately works out in practice. Evaluations also provide a basis for the identification of possible improvement points. For example, the two previous 2005 and 2020 evaluations of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act have also provided insight into the practical experience of women who, unfortunately often under difficult circumstances, were confronted with this law. The evaluations also provided insight into the practical experience of abortion doctors who had and must do their important work within the framework of this law. These evaluations have led, among other things, to us standing here today, because one of the recommendations has led to this legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. So yes, evaluations are important. The Ministry of VWS commissioned ZonMw to review the law for the previous evaluations. If this legislative amendment succeeds, which, of course, we very much hope, then the flexible period of reflection will, of course, be an important part of the next evaluation. We think it's a good idea to review the law every five years. If I am right, that was the wish of the Chamber in 2018, if I am right. But I am also looking in the direction of the Minister, who is responsible for carrying out an evaluation. What is feasible, logical and sensible? It would be nice if the Minister could give a little more clarity about this later in his reply. Of course, it is good to keep a finger on the wrist in addition to the evaluation. That is what I hear in the questions put by Mrs Bikker and Mrs Palland. The good news is we're doing the same thing. The Ministry of VWS sends an annual report of the Abrupt Law pregnancy to the Chamber each year. We all know these annual reports and ask our questions about them every year. The inspection shall report annually on the basis of the data that hospitals and abortion clinics licensed under the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy are legally obliged to deliver to the Chamber. The decision-making process, including the pattern of reference, consultation with experts and the period of reflection, are examples of data included in this report. The inspection also identifies trends that can be drawn from the registration. The Chamber therefore has the opportunity to keep the finger on the wrist and to ask further questions about these reports. That seems important to us too. Then there are a lot of pages that go by that have already been dealt with skilfully by my colleagues. I shall now come to compliance with the legislation. Questions have been asked by Mrs Palland, among others, but Mrs Hermans and Mr Hijink also had a number of questions about the practical translation of this change: how do we inform the occupational groups, the general practitioners, the abortion clinics, the abortion doctors and the gynecologists? Those are legitimate questions. How do we ensure that this possible legislative amendment is sufficiently known to them? This runs along two lines: towards the general practitioners and towards the abortion doctors. If the reflection period is abolished or if I need to make it more carefully formulated, the Dutch Family Doctors Society, the NHG, and the National Family Doctors Association, the LHV, will inform their members about this through their own communication channels. They will base communication on information from the government. The NHG will update the General Medical Guidance in case of accidental pregnancy, Mrs Bikker asked, if I am correct, and will also be communicated. In the direction of the clinics, the NGvA plays the coordinating role; this was also mentioned earlier. The NGvA lays down the guidelines and protocols and they are then incorporated by the sector in instructions and the quality manual. The two Directives on Guidance and Treatment, which have already been notified, play an important role here. These two directives will also be reviewed in the near future. If an amendment is made to the Directive or legislation, it will be communicated from the NGvA to the sector. Finally, these changes are also part of quality days and further training days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u149	I have been thinking about the amendment that I tabled together with Mrs van der Plas in connection with Mrs Ellemeet's earlier inter-ruption debate: what exactly do we want with that? I come to the conclusion that the amendment may not have been explained clearly enough or that it may not be the right instrument. I hear now that there is going to be an adjustment from the profession to the current guidelines. That's actually exactly what we want. We are afraid that if we, as a Chamber, decide that we should abolish the current rather rigid framework and not come up with a new suggestion as to what should replace it, there may be a period when it falls into the air, there has not yet been a change in medical guidance and doctors in practice wonder what is expected of them because it was very clear at first and not now. I could withdraw the amendment and come up with a motion in which we say: 'We would like VWS to play a facilitating role in this, to get the right groups together, the groups that have written these guidelines before. At the same time as this legislative process, they must incorporate this adaptation into these guidelines, so that it becomes clear, precisely from those medical insights, what the alternative should be and those doctors will not be in a period of time." What do the initiators think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u150	I understand the concerns of Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Good legislation also requires a careful implementation path. I also understand her concern about what is going on in that transitional period. It makes sense to me, and I am looking back towards the Minister, to look at it. We can indeed look at the revision of the directives which would already be revised, and this possible legislative amendment is, of course, taking into account how we can anchor them a little more firmly. We can take a good look at this with all the professionals involved, so that this transitional period is guaranteed. So, yeah, it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u151	What does that mean for your amendment, Mrs Pouw-Verweij?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u152	In that case, I would like to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u153	The Pouw-Verweij/Van der Plas amendment (Doc. 13) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u154	I will come with Mrs van der Plas with a new motion, suggesting how we would like it to be shaped. Then I would like to hear what the initiators and the minister think about it in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u155	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Bikker, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u156	I think it would be a good idea to come back to that briefly. Of course, we already have a great deal of pride in guidelines and guidance. I don't think it's entirely my place, because I'm not speaking on behalf of VWS, of course, that it would be good to see to what extent we can embed that in the existing directives and guidelines without adding another story to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u157	We're gonna have a lunch break later, so maybe there'll be some exchange. Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u158	The initiator just indicated that this law is being evaluated once every five years. Of course, this will also have a place in it. At the same time, doctors are being asked for something new, namely to determine with women what the period of reflection should be. I can imagine that this will also lead to new dilemmas, whether this has to do with socio-economic conditions, psychological conditions or whatever, in which doctors say 'there is still a need for adaptation of the directive' or 'I would like to talk about this with doctors who encounter the same problem'. That is why I can imagine that we are already under mid-term review on this point in order to see how the quality, which Mrs Ploumen, for example, has made a huge appointment, continues to take shape and to see as a Chamber whether it is going to do with what the majority has intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u159	If there's a mid-term evaluation, your question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u160	That is very brief, Mr President. I liked my wording better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u161	The concise summary! That is a good question from Mrs Bikker. I understand that wish, but I also want to be reluctant in creating more moments of measurement. I just explained that it would be worth a sweet thing if that evaluation came faster than the last one. It took him 15 years. I do not think that this is a sign of care, especially when it comes to these major social issues. My call would therefore also be for this next evaluation to be carried out more quickly. I have just indicated that we have a system in which we receive annual reports from both the inspection and from VWS. I would like to suggest to Mrs Bikker that we should look at this particular aspect in these annual reports, namely that flexible period of reflection and how it will work out in practice, so that we in the Chamber will also be able to get an idea of how this is going to work out in practice. I think that is a very reasonable request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u162	Mr President, to help you, I also see the VWS Minister nodding, and I hear approval around me. That is why I think we have a commitment here, even if it is still in the air here. That saves a lot of talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u163	That's gonna save you, yeah. Well, Mrs. Tellegen, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u164	Well, that's going really well!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u165	I'm almost at the end, and then we're gonna give you the floor, or you're gonna give the Minister the floor. Finally. As Mrs Hermans said, the length of the period of reflection does not say anything about care. It is precisely by making the fixed deadlines more flexible that even more tailor-made and careful can be done. That is the thrust of this initiative proposal. And that sounds like the echo of VVD-politica Els Veder-Smit. How the weighting should be precise, and exactly what needs to be put into the scale, cannot be understood in a legislative text. It's different for everyone. I end with her quote: "Everyone must put those weights in the bowl that count for her and for him." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you, Mrs Tellegen. I shall then give the floor to the Minister, who is in the role of advisor to the Chamber today. Every day something different, so I say. Until that one question has been answered to the Minister, and then we'll suspend for lunch. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Tellegen and Mr Paternotte, for the discussion and also the other members of your Chamber for all their questions. I would be happy to help you with information on abortion care and decision-making, so that you can make a proper assessment of the current legislative proposal. In the coalition agreement, this initiative law was designated for the personal consideration of the MPs. I will therefore refrain from giving advice in my reply to the questions on the legislative proposal, and will not interfere in these personal considerations. This brings me to the answers to the questions that have been asked to me, including those that have just been passed on and with which I have contributed. I shall begin with a question from Mr Stoffer. That question was: how does this initiative proposal relate to the policy to prevent abortions? The answer is: of course it is important to avoid unintended pregnancies as much as possible. That has already been reiterated. To this end, there is already a large package of measures, as laid down in the Seven Points Plan Unintended Pregnancy. Among other things, I am not going to go over everything about good information and good assistance for choice. In the coalition agreement, we advocate further strengthening that integrated approach. It is not expected that the policy to reduce abortions will be compromised if a flexible period of reflection is introduced. Mr Stoffer's second question was: what are abortion clinics currently doing to signal compulsion and urge? As you know, there is at least one conversation with the woman alone. That discussion shall determine whether it has reached its decision on a voluntary and well-considered basis. Those involved in counseling in the abortion clinic have been trained to notice and deal with signs of doubt and pressure. That has just been mentioned. I would also like to draw attention to the degree of care with which this has been going on for many years. If an abortionist suspects that the request for termination of pregnancy is not voluntary, he or she will not perform it and refer the woman to a provider of choice assistance if necessary. The inspection also explicitly reviews this. Mr Stoffer asked whether the presentation of alternatives to abortion by a doctor should not become mandatory in the decision-making process. It is important that the woman confronted with an unintended pregnancy makes an informed choice and is well informed about the possible consequences of her choice as well as the alternatives. If the woman considers that her emergency cannot be ended in any other way than by a termination of pregnancy, the doctor must, by law, satisfy herself that the woman has made and maintained her request in a voluntary manner, after careful consideration and in the awareness of her responsibility for unborn life and the consequences for herself and hair. This care requirement for the physician does not change even if this law of initiative is adopted. Mr Stoffer asked for speed with the agenda to prevent unintended pregnancies. The previous cabinet set out the necessary actions to prevent unintended pregnancies. In the coalition agreement, this cabinet argues for the improvement of comprehensive support for pregnancies, a good start for children and the prevention of unintended and unwanted pregnancies. This spring, the cabinet comes with an impact on this. Mrs Gündoğan has asked how we are going to take the next hurdles. A number of points are mentioned by her: abortion from the Code of Criminal Law, the delivery of the abortion pill by the general practitioner and contraception in the basic package. This cabinet has no intention of taking abortion out of the Code of Criminal Law. The current legal construction provides a good assurance that abortion can only be carried out by competent professionals and under the conditions that apply to it. The initiative legislative proposal on the delivery of the abortion pill by the general practitioner will be discussed next week. Any implementation aspects will be discussed in that debate. The cabinet intends to make contraception available to vulnerable women. The way in which this can be implemented in practice will be examined in the coming period. These include financial design and clarification of the target group, which require careful impact. Mrs Bikker asked how the Minister is assessing whether appropriate solutions are being offered to women. The abortion sector works in accordance with its professional guidelines. These directives provide for discussions with women on other solutions to solve the emergency she has experienced. In addition, there is the possibility of choosing assistance. I have already mentioned that the inspection also explicitly supervises this. I have no reason to believe that abortion clinics do not comply with the guidelines. Mrs Bikker also asked how the effects of the legislative amendment can be followed now that not all general practitioners are aware of the guidance for unintended pregnancies. The change in the law doesn't change the reporting obligations that clinics have. So even after a possible flexibilisation of the period of reflection, they will provide the figures, and so any increases or decreases in abortion can be quickly detected. In addition, doctors in abortion clinics work in accordance with the guidelines of the profession which, among other things, require the doctor to make sure that the woman has carefully come to her choice. If there is any doubt, the woman will not be treated at that time. Mrs Bikker also asked whether the Minister could quickly work on the agenda to reduce the number of abortions of unintended pregnancies and whether he could send a letter on this matter before 1 May which would also address age groups and raise with ministers for anti-poverty and housing. In the coalition agreement, the cabinet announced its intention to work on combating (repeated) abortions and unintended pregnancy. To this end, an integrated approach to pregnancy, abortion and birth is being developed in the coming period. That's being worked out right now. The Secretary of State for VWS is responsible for the prevention of unintended pregnancies. The cabinet aims to share with your Chamber the initial elaboration of these plans this spring, before 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u168	Is it okay if the Minister answers all the questions first, Mrs Bikker? I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u169	Then there was a question from Mrs Hermans: how do you look at the possibility of eliminating the risk of abortion in the hospital? This was partly due to a question by Mr Hijink on the financial consequences of abolishing the risk of pregnancy break-up in the hospital. That's about 3,000 of the 30,000 women who go through a pregnancy break-up every year. Women who undergo a hospital termination of pregnancy almost always do so in a medical setting and have almost always had medical treatments and examinations. That means that their own risk is already being addressed. The elimination of its own risk for this particular situation is therefore undesirable. The financial reasons for this are not leading, but they are the far-reaching consequences that would have for the abolition of the own risk as regards the administrative burden on implementation and the precedent effect. Mrs Hermans also asked: can the Minister give an idea of the total number of abortions in hospitals and clinics? I just mentioned a few. Most pregnancy breaks in the Netherlands take place in abortion clinics. The number of pregnancy breaks has been around 30,000 a year for many years, of which about 90% is in abortion clinics. By 2020, there were over 28,000. In the hospitals, it's around 3,000. By 2020, there were 2,981. These figures are reported annually by the inspection and sent to your Chamber, the last time on 9 December of the past year. Mrs Ploumen asked: does the Minister wish to reflect that the second review of the law recommends a structural solution to the problem of the reimbursement of contraception? The second legal assessment indicates that the reimbursement of contraceptive products is a bottleneck, because the cost of this is too high a threshold for some women. A number of measures have therefore been taken in the past period, both in abortion clinics and in the program Nu Niet Zwanger. The coalition agreement also includes the intention to make contraception available to vulnerable groups free of charge and accessible, as I mentioned. We started working on it. Mrs Palland asked: how does the Minister intend to implement the coalition agreement agreement to improve understanding of the reasons for abortion? It is important to gain more insight into the experiences of women and men who have been confronted with unintentional pregnancy, also in order to understand the reasons for abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u170	We would very much like the Minister to finish his story first, but then Mrs Bikker and Mrs Westerveld will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u171	My predecessor has previously indicated that the Ministry will explore the possibilities for a large-scale study of the experiences of women and men, but that the results of ongoing investigations should first be awaited. With regard to those ongoing studies, it is important to report that the RIVM conducts an unintended pregnancy monitoring qualitative examination of the decision-making of unintended pregnancies and the experiences of women, men and caregivers. This study will be available at the end of this month. In addition, there are several studies conducted via ZonMw on the experiences and needs of women and men who are experiencing an unintentional pregnancy. The first results are expected in spring 2023. First of all, I would like to assess whether these studies offer or provide sufficient insight into reasons for abortion. After that, I would like to inform the Chamber about a possible additional investigation. Mrs Palland also asked: how does the Minister intend to work with civil society organisations to provide appropriate information and support, thereby reducing the number of unwanted and unintended pregnancies and repeated abortions? This is in line with the need for an integrated approach to pregnancy, abortion and birth. That is the starting point of this cabinet. I fully stress the importance of appropriate and accessible information for women who are confronted with unintended pregnancy, so that they can make an informed choice. The Secretary of State of VWS is the first point of contact within the cabinet. I got the supplementary question if I am willing to talk to the Dutch Society of Abortion Doctors about the experiences with this. This also concerns the initial experience over the coming period with and the evaluation of possible flexibilisation of the deadline. I am very willing to do so. There was also a further discussion on the next evaluation. It's been mentioned for a while. The last evaluation was in 2020. The next evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act should therefore, given the five-year period, start in 2024 in order to produce a result by 2025. In view of the examination of the two legislative proposals, which are still to be examined in the First Chamber, an evaluation in 2024 may be on the early side. In that case, I think it would be advisable to start a subsequent evaluation just a little later than in 2024, so that we can really take into account the possible effects and experiences of the implementation of the two legislative proposals in question. If you move that for two years, it would be at 2026 or 2027. I'm getting a note here in the meantime. Sorry, that's the same question. It's about the evaluation. Apologies. This is what I get in my hands while I'm at it. I have already answered the question of whether I can talk to abortion doctors myself. Well, great. I'm getting it delivered, but I'd already written along.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u172	There you go. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Bikker and then to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u173	Since I've been waiting for the Minister's answer in his entirety at first, I have a few different questions. I count on your mercy. With regard to the Minister's recent commitment to engage with the abortion doctors, I would like to include one more important element. We may not have talked enough about this in this debate, but at a later stage in a committee debate we can also talk about after-care for women. I also hear a lot of general practitioners about the concern that they do not see enough women back where that is very important. This is not only about talking about contraception, but also about the psychosocial consequences. Would the Minister also like to talk to the NHG on this point, especially with the general practitioners, in order to get a clear view of it, so that we can get there quickly if there is a need for improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u174	Yes, I'm very willing to do that. It is obvious, as has already been mentioned, that being confronted with an unintended or unwanted pregnancy and the whole decision-making surrounding it, including any break-up, has a major impact on a woman, possibly on her partner, etc. So it is really important to have a good view of the practice and to see where it can be improved. I fully see the possibilities of discussing this with the general practitioners and learning from these experiences. So the answer is yes, heartfelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u175	I'm sure we'll see the findings of that at some point as a chamber. I would also very much like to include that in the next year's report. We must not only wait for this evaluation over a whole number of years, but also carry out the discussion carefully, because this applies every year to thousands of women. I have a second question. The Minister said at the beginning of his reply that the inspection will also keep an eye on a rapid decline or a rapid increase in the number of abortions as an unintentional effect. I don't want to suggest that it is, but I want that to be taken into account. I'm glad that happens. How does the Minister report to the Chamber on this? At what point does he consider that appropriate? It would be very regrettable if the inspection indicated a certain effect, particularly in the case of an increase in the number of abortions, and that these signals would not come through. So how does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u176	I see it as follows: that we continue the existing practice, so that there is an annual report. These are the figures for the previous period. That is in the short term, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u177	I am pleased that this aspect will be addressed specifically. Then there's my third question. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, it's three completely different things. My third question concerns the request for an objective, the request for a real reduction in the number of abortions in the coalition agreement. I will be tabling a motion on this later, because I think this is really very essential. In this debate, you have heard my party's view of the value of unborn life. In his reply, the Minister mentioned a number of directors who would be involved. But it is precisely when we talk about social reasons and medical care that I think it is important that the cabinet feels responsible for this. Of course someone has to pull the cart. I get that. But it must also be done in width. I think it is important that this Minister also says: I am going to contribute to ensuring that we achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u178	Yes, I'm going to contribute to that, as I indicated in the answer. To mention just a few points, I have already mentioned very briefly: the seven-point plan focuses, among other things, on prevention and information in education, for which I need my colleagues. It focuses on a specific and targeted approach to high-risk groups in all kinds of different places, and I also need colleagues to do so. It focuses on support in unintended pregnancy. It focuses on contraception counselling for high-risk groups. It also focuses on young and vulnerable parenting, to name only a few points out of that total.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u179	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u180	One last question. Thank you very much for that. I have another question, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Bart de Graaff...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u181	You'll have a second term later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u183	But maybe that second term can be shorter. I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u184	I'm sorry, but I didn't interrupt the minister, just because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u185	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u186	My question is about the motives. The Minister has indicated that it is already being investigated, and I would like to wait and see what follow-up research is needed. I also looked at the RIVM data the Minister referred to. I really think there's still a lot of profit to be made there. Let me give you one brief example: the second-term termination of pregnancy, that is, the further termination of pregnancy, even from 18 weeks. I would expect from this, particularly in view of abortion care in the Netherlands, given the possibility of discussing it, that this is only a very small number of women, who come mainly on medical grounds for this difficult decision. But when I look at the numbers, I see that I believe two thirds of women do not break up their pregnancy in the hospital but in an abortion clinic. Then I am genuinely searching: what happened that during the first 18 weeks the woman did not take this step but made this choice in such a late period of pregnancy? So precisely on those elements, I would find it so important that we continue to design this research, because it also looks at how exactly the number of pregnancies can be reduced, especially for women at such an advanced stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u187	Mrs Bikker rightly points out that in order to achieve the best possible result in reducing the number of unwanted pregnancies and thus also in the number of terminations of unwanted pregnancies, you need good data and good knowledge in order to be able to make very targeted interventions. I'm totally sharing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u188	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank all the authors for answering the questions so well. That also means that I do not have so many questions, except now to the Minister. That is about preventing unwanted pregnancies, because I think that all the parties here in the Chamber actually agree that it would be good to avoid unwanted pregnancies as much as possible. I see in the coalition agreement that the Minister referred just now to the idea of giving vulnerable groups access to free contraception. Then I fall over the word "vulnerable" because we see that it is mentioned in several places in the coalition agreement. I would like to ask the Minister: what exactly is the definition of "vulnerable"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u189	Mrs Westerveld is right to ask. I can't define that right now. As I said, that's the conversation right now. I would then take a position on a discussion that needs to take place even further, so I would like to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u190	In another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u191	I understand the Minister's reaction. My point is, of course, that you can define "vulnerable" as physically vulnerable, but you can also talk about financial-economically vulnerable. Of course, a very large proportion of young women are covered. When we look at the lack of capacity, the younger group is lagging behind. So I just want to point out that this term, which I think is very good in the coalition agreement, even more so, I would like to broaden it; I think that a lot of other parties would like contraception to be available in any case. Hence my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u192	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u193	The signal's being taken away. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP and then to Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u194	I had another question about the personal risk at the hospital when it comes to abortion. I thought the Minister's argument was a little short-sighted. He actually says: it's financial and organisationally complicated. But it is already the case that forms of care in the hospital are subject to an exception for one's own risk. For example, obstetric care in medical indication does not fall under its own risk. There is, of course, a parallel there when it comes to not raising thresholds for childbirth. That doesn't always have to be a successful pregnancy. At the moment, for example, if a miscarriage takes place in the hospital under the supervision of the gynecologist, it is not covered by its own risk. In that sense, I do not think it is a strong argument to say: that is complicated and so we do not do it. If the Minister has substantive arguments, then we should listen to them, but I simply do not think this is so strong. I would like to level it out: if there is no risk of abortion in a clinic, then we should not do so in the hospital either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u195	The substantive argument is that it does not solve anything in terms of financial reduction. It is only a small group; about 10% of women who undergo a pregnancy break-up undergo it in hospital. That's actually always in a medical setting. People are already in the hospital being treated. This is already a claim to their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u196	So you would say that because people are already in the hospital and may have to contribute something at their own risk, then it is okay that abortion is at the expense of one's own risk. I do not think that is a strong argument. It's about whether or not you want to raise thresholds. I can very well imagine that even in the case of midwifery care, for example, we do not want to have any financial threshold for women to go to hospital if they give birth. The same reasoning, I think, should apply when it comes to abortion. You do not want women to choose whether, for financial reasons, they refrain from having an abortion under medical supervision in the hospital and therefore make another choice, which may not be sensible from a medical point of view at all. We should not want that kind of threshold, and that is why I would say, especially when it comes to a small group, make that exception. It's technically possible, because that's what happens in midwife care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u197	I hear Mr Hijink say: make sure that abortion treatment in the hospital is not subject to one's own risk. My answer is: that is not the case, because the risk is already being used for what the woman is primarily in hospital undergoing treatment for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u198	The coalition agreement states that there will be more insight into the reasons for abortion. The Minister also stated just now that this is going to happen. I think you need data for that. My question is: could the Minister imagine that clinics will be obliged to record, of course anonymously, the reason for an abortion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u199	You do need good data. I cannot give an evaluation of what data are now available, because I do not know exactly at the moment. I would like to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u200	Yes, Mr Stoffer is fine with that. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the initiators and the minister. I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-6.u201	Then we will vote at 2:50 p.m. and then we will proceed with the second term on the side of the Chamber, in which there will be an opportunity, for example, to table another motion.
