ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the state of the rule of law. As you know, quite a few speakers have signed up. The agenda may be adjusted during the course of today, but that will obviously depend on the speaking time used. I would like to ask you, in connection with the amended agenda, to minimise the number of interruptions. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Karimi from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The citizens' confidence in the rule of law, that is what I want to talk about today. Onora O'Neill, an authoritative British philosopher specializing in the themes of trust and accountability in the public sector, argues that it is a misleading and unhelpful claim that in four western constitutional democracies there is a falling confidence of citizens. In her view, the problem needs to be reworded and seen. It is a question of lack of trustworth or trustworthiness of our institutions, the extent to which institutions deserve trust. After all, trust is something you get. The others have to trust you. Whether one trusts the citizen, a person, a representative of the state, an institution, politics, journalism, science or the market or not, is a judgment on the part of the citizen. In the words of O'Neill: "Trustworthiness comes before trust. Trust is a response. Trustworthiness is what we judge." According to her three characteristics determine the trustworthiness of a person or an institution: competence (competence), reliability (reliability) and honesty (honesty). In O'Neill's words: "The task is not to build the trust. You can't rebuild what other people are giving to you. You have to give them the basic, adequate, useful and simple evidence that you are trustworthy." As far as my group is concerned, this is precisely what this debate is about: do the various state powers provide the citizens with adequate, meaningful and simple proof that they are trustworthy? Are the state powers and their representatives in the Netherlands indeed a model of competence, reliability and honesty? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I can cite many examples from Dutch practice that make it clear that the state powers in the Netherlands lack competence, reliability and honesty in crucial areas. All those present here know the examples. I would like to mention a few particularly poignant examples. The lingering problems surrounding gas drilling and its consequences in Groningen, including the revelations this weekend in NRC, which once again show how oil giants dictated our government's policies at the expense of citizens' security. The failing enforcement of laws and regulations concerning, among others, Schiphol, Tata Steel and nitrogen. And, of course, the absolute low point of unprecedented injustice in the childcare allowance scandal and institutional racism in the Tax Administration. In doing so, it is very important to realise that the confidence of the state power is indivisible. For the rule of law to function properly, the legislative, executive and judicial power must all have a high level of competence, reliability and honesty in a democratic system. GroenLinks' judgment is harsh. The credibility of different state powers has been greatly violated on fundamental and crucial points. It is not an exaggeration to claim that our rule of law is in crisis. Quality of legislation, quality of implementation, quality of legal protection, all three elements are too often inadequate. The mechanisms that caused the children's allowance scandal or the problems in Groningen continue to work in the Netherlands. Mr President, I should like to hear a response from the rulers to our fundamental judgment. Following on from my speech, I will address a number of issues and make suggestions which, in our opinion, can contribute to restoring the confidence of our rule of law. The Vice-President of the Council of State pointed out that, and I quote, "legislation is made unnecessarily complex. There is a great deal of attention to political compromises and much too late in thinking about implementation." The findings of the Record Working Group in this Chamber also point to this problem. The political agreements regularly make sure that a bad law is passed by the Senate, especially among coalition parties. In our own reflection moment, the upcoming debate on the report of the Evaluation Working Group, the First Chamber must also consider this fact and answer the question how this institute intends to increase its own confidence. I would also like to hear from the rulers what their plans are for improving the quality of legislation and its implementation. What conclusions do they draw from the implementation tests carried out by different organisations? What steps will be taken to make implementation a major factor in the development of legislation and policies? What is being done to strengthen the citizen perspective in legislation and regulation? My group sees that implementation tests or objections are often put aside in practice if this is politically appropriate. Therefore, my group would like to propose that negative opinions from implementing organisations on legislation and policies should always be provided with a substantiated reply if the government decides otherwise. Can the directors undertake to introduce such a system of reply to legislative proposals? Does the government agree with the Venice Commission that laws should always contain a hardness clause? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The case law has wanted or unintentionally played an essential role in maintaining bad legislation and policies. To prevent this, the judiciary wants to engage more actively in dialogue with the legislator and the executive. In court cases, judges see how a law is applied in practice and what the consequences are for citizens. They want to signal injustices that cause certain laws for citizens. My group welcomes this. Active feedback from judges on what they see in practice does not affect their independence. And no, they're not gonna sit on the legislator's chair either. The Court of Justice has recently presented a list of eleven abdominal pain files. From the payment of the other party's registry law to a public service ban, all situations in which the law frustrates a human application. In its annual report, the Hoge Raad has also identified 10 statements which reveal bottlenecks in the application of legislation. What is the reaction of the directors to the signals presented and the proposed dialogue? In addition to the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary, the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms is another important pillar of a democratic rule of law. In the Netherlands, the judge is not allowed to review the Constitution at the moment, but to review international treaties. That is why strengthening the embedding of international law in our rule of law is crucial. New human rights conventions and optional protocols to existing conventions should be ratified as soon as possible. This is important for any extension of the substance of rights, but also for access to international legal mechanisms. What is the state of the ratification of the third optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which allows for the right of complaint to the Committee on Children's Rights and the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? In what period can we expect concrete proposals on constitutional review? Can the Ministers comment on the view of the Supreme Court to the Council on the case law on constitutional review recently published? Mr. Chairman. Increasing polarisation, cybercrime and undermining are major challenges for our rule of law. Unfortunately, addressing these challenges does not help that the police themselves turn out to be a place of work in which racism prevails. The blue family does not provide proof that it is truly competent, reliable and honest for citizens with a different color or religion in this country. Police racism must be tackled with root and branch, otherwise there will not be much left of the rule of law. I would like a response from the ministers to the signs of racism in the police. In addition to the important task of the police to combat racism in their own ranks, the police, the prosecutors and the judiciary must be able to do their work quickly and carefully. Ability and reliability have a price tag. Timely, accessible and just justice has a price tag. Good execution and the human size have a price tag. On the way to the Lower House elections, the police, the prosecution and the judiciary have jointly heard the alarm clock about the inadequate financing of the criminal justice chain. Where do we stand with extra funding for the criminal justice chain and in particular for justice? I would like to mention the motion for a resolution by Mr Rosenmöller and others. and the subsequent WODC study on the continuity of the funding of these organisations. How does the government intend to achieve continuity in funding? It is clear, of course, that reducing the high pressure on justice must not affect legal protection. My group agrees with Mr Naves that tackling undermining crime should not undermine the rule of law. So-called quick fixes that are used because the judge is so busy, can irretrievably damage the confidence of legal protection. Measures such as removing cases from the courts, resolving criminal matters through civil law or administrative law, more compulsory mediation, more OM decisions, the introduction of conditional criminal decisions, more judgements, more minimum penalties, less community service, in short, fewer judges who can carefully weigh a case, are at risk for the legal protection of citizens. I'd like a response from the rulers. The fight against undermining also means an investment in our administrative and social resilience. We were strongly reminded by Mayor Jaeger van Scherpenzeel that municipalities that are best able to prevent undermining at local level should be given the task and resources to invest in the resilience of communities. A preventive policy against undermining begins with a good social policy. Young people with social problems fall far too often and far too easily prey to crime. Where is the complete prevention of undermining, I ask the Minister. Who is in charge of this at a rich level and how can the role of local government be strengthened? Undermining extends beyond the proverbial street. In the Netherlands, money laundering and shady financial arrangements for tax avoidance and tax evasion are a huge threat to our rule of law. Earlier this Chamber has in the motion-Vendrik c.s. a ruling on this matter. What is the progress of the rulers in their implementation? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the rule of law in the overseas territories of our Kingdom. How confident do the rulers find it not to apply as parts of legal protection to some of the citizens of our Kingdom? How confident do the rulers find it if the various countries in the Kingdom cannot agree on a dispute settlement? Anno 2022 is still not a good solution to conflicts between the different countries in the Kingdom. The President of the Supreme Court, Mrs De Groot, proposes that the principles of a dispute settlement be put first and that an ad hoc form of inter-regional dispute settlement be agreed which could be a learning process for a permanent dispute settlement. Can the Ministers appreciate this proposal? In De Groene Amsterdammer last weekend we read about the gambling sector on Curaçao. I quote: 'The interests are so great, the forces so strong, that the gambling sector rules Curaçao'. Curaçao, a country in our kingdom, is a paradise for organized crime and mafia. How's that sound? What is the reaction of the rulers to these findings? And what, given their co-responsibility for the rule of law in Curaçao, are they going to do about it? With regard to the BES islands, it is also very important that the General Law on Equal Treatment should apply as soon as possible. In the opinion of my group, important international human rights conventions should apply as soon as possible, in particular the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Convention on Refugees and the Istanbul Convention. I'd like a response from the rulers. Mr President, I shall conclude. Not far from here, just a few hours away, people die daily for the dream of a democratic rule of law in Ukraine. The dead, wounded, refugees and displaced persons bear witness to the courage and desperation of those who oppose tyranny. The courage of Ukrainians speaks to the imagination and inspires. Defending and fighting for our rule of law is more than worthwhile. We, the parliament, but also you, the members of the cabinet, have an essential duty to convince the citizens of this country with adequate, meaningful and simple proof that the state powers and those representing the executive, parliament and judiciary are capable, reliable and honest, so that our rule of law is indeed worthy of the trust of citizens. I am curious about the reactions of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karimi, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bezaan of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the state of the Dutch rule of law. As far as PVV is concerned, this debate is not a day too early, because the Dutch rule of law, our free society, is in severe weather. To illustrate all this, let me give you some examples. To begin with, with one word: the surcharge affair, now also known as 'the surcharge scandal', a black and white page in the history of our rule of law. Where the first assumption was that there were no fewer than 1,115 children who were unjustly taken away from their parents, new research by the CBS shows that the number is even higher, namely 1,675 children. At the end of last year, the Council of Europe presented a destructive report on the functioning of legal protection in the Netherlands. In the report, hard notes were cracked about a political and administrative culture in which information was withheld and MPs were hindered by coalition pressure in their work. Mr. Chairman. In March of this year it became clear that the National Coordinator on Terrorism and Security, the NCTV, played an important role in monitoring critical noises in society. For example, opinion poller Maurice de Hond, market researcher Hans van Tellingen and PVV-Second MP Fleur Agema were followed intensively and the NCTV passed on the information collected to the ministry of VWS. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. 17 May last, this house voted against the fifth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. A good step, but let us not be blind to the potential dangers of the pandemic treaty with the WTO that is coming. It is a treaty with which the WHO has a far-reaching influence on Dutch corona policy and which, in the opinion of the PVV, should never be signed. What the PVV will never forget is that this cabinet, with its inadequate and dictatorial corona policy, has deliberately and knowingly achieved a horrific division in our society, in which millions of people are discriminated against on medical grounds. Mr. Chairman. The number of refugees moving towards the Netherlands has returned to the old, disastrous level of 2015. Every week we bring hundreds of refugees to our country. Apart from the fact that we do not have the capacity to accommodate these refugees, this massive influx leads to a country in which common standards and values are increasingly lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u5	I think Mr Recourt of the PvdA would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u6	Yes, Mr President, on the previous subject, namely the corona crisis. We know the objections of the PVV, but today we are debating the rule of law. My question to Mrs Bezaan is where the rule of law has not worked. How do you include that issue in today's theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u7	It doesn't seem very difficult to me. As soon as there is a division within the rule of law based on medical backgrounds, I think that is sufficient reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u8	Did the judge miss a turn somewhere? Is there any coercion imposed by the politics that minorities...? I'm trying to place it on the subject of the rule of law. I know your political objections to the Corona policy, but it is now a question of whether the rule of law has not worked properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u9	I think we differ on this. In my view, there is a division at the moment when a group of people want to take a vaccine based on whether or not they want to take a vaccine... That division is, as far as I'm concerned, a... how do you say? Just that there's a relationship; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mrs Recourt, you continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u11	I'm gonna start over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u12	Sorry, Mrs. Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u13	That's another club, but it doesn't matter, Mr. Chairman. The number of refugees moving towards the Netherlands has returned to the old, disastrous level of 2015. Every week we bring hundreds of refugees to our country. Apart from the fact that we do not have the capacity to accommodate these refugees, this massive influx leads to a country in which common standards and values are increasingly lacking. It is said that diversity is our strength, but unity in or through diversity is nothing but a left-wing, elitist lie. It leads to segregation and incomprehension, and ultimately to the final loss of the spirited connection. The fact that the cabinet now wants to force municipalities to house asylum seekers and refugees and to give status holders priority to freed-up social housing, while, among other things, a society-disrupting housing crisis is taking place, is yet another signal that the government is no longer serving its own citizens. In order to achieve this disastrous plan, the cabinet has now taken a horse's potion, namely the Relocation Population Act from 1952. By the way, we are increasingly seeing the use of coercion by the cabinet. Take, for example, the plans for splitting citizens into the stomach of expensive and many hooks and eyes containing heat pumps. That's to save the planet and get Putin sleepless nights. Putin doesn't sleep any less, as he can easily get rid of his fossil fuels in Asia. Is this the new governance culture, which was announced proudly last year? Within this framework, I would also like to draw attention to the undesirable plan of Vice-President Vera Bergkamp. At the beginning of this year she came up with proposals to strengthen the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. These are adjustments that, in the eyes of the Freedom Party, will lead to a restriction of freedom of expression in parliament. If the law is not broken, everyone must be able to say what he wants as long as he or she does not fall into swearing cannonades, or make real threats. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this is not the only attack on the free speech in the Dutch Parliament. The VVD, PvdA, D66, Party for Animals, Christian Union, DENK, Volt, Gündoğan and GroenLinks have recently submitted written questions asking the government to restrict freedom of expression, restrict journalistic freedom and intervene in the state broadcasting sector because there is a topic discussed that these parties do not like. Nine parties in the Dutch parties, including so-called liberal parties. Mr. Chairman. In the view of the PVV, a functioning rule of law also provides adequate protection for its citizens against crime. But what is our surprise? Where there is an acute budget of EUR 7 billion for non-sense climate action, which is more than the entire police budget in total, police stations are still being closed down. In 2021, the whole of the North Netherlands, or Friesland, Groningen and Drenthe, had to do with a total of 34 police stations. And East Netherlands, or Overijssel and Gelderland, had only 46 police stations in 2021. Our streets are unsafe, but we will soon have a climate-neutral country. The madness reigns. Mr. Chairman. Every citizen of this country has every right to non-violently oppose malpractice through the right of demonstration. However, at the end of last year, Demissionary Minister Grapperhaus called it "quasi demonstration law" when it came to demonstrations against dictatorial and all sides rattling corona policy. To put it mildly, this is a remarkable choice of words which the outgoing minister reduced and shunned this important citizens' right. How does the current Minister for Justice and Security view the ruling of her predecessor? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A functioning democratic rule of law cannot be achieved without independent media. It is therefore painful and extremely worrying that the editor-in-chief of the Volkskrant has indicated that opinions that differ from government policy should not be offered to stages. Such statements undermine confidence, because with some positive exceptions, unfortunately, many Dutch media are extremely docile to the prevailing narratives. We clearly see this in terms of climate, diversity, Ukraine and corona. Unfortunately, well-founded alternative opinions are ignored as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. This seems to be a conscious choice, especially if you look at the article I was a purchased journalist, in which the now deceased German whistleblower and former journalist Udo Ulfkotte reveals that he and many other journalists were taught to lie, to betray and not tell the truth to the public. In other words, purchased journalists who say and write down everything they are asked to do by their clients. Although Germany is of course not the Netherlands, this is certainly not something we should close our eyes to. If it is the order of the day in neighbouring Germany, it seems rather naive to us to assume that such practices do not take place in our country. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the cases that have just been named and do not know better, you might think that all of this, as it is so beautiful in English, has happened in a failed state, somewhere in Eastern Europe, the Middle East or Africa. But no, it all happened in the Dutch polders. Banana monarchy The Netherlands, but with a big mouth and a flapping finger point to other countries when things happen that they think can't stand the light of day. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. The: Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-Van de Klashorst and Mr Van Hattem proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[in recent years a number of things have taken place in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, such as, for example, the surcharge affair, which has caused serious damage to our democratic rule of law;]] [[some of these issues have not yet been brought to a fair and legal conclusion;]] [[the Dutch authorities regularly comment on alleged abuses of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in other countries;]] [[Whereas:]] [[it is very inappropriate and hypocritical to take into account other countries' alleged abuses if abuses occur in their own countries that have not yet been resolved;]] [[energy which is now being spent on teaching other countries can be better spent on solving abuses in their own countries;]] [[calls on the Government not to address any other countries in any way about alleged abuses of democracy, the rule of law and human rights until the abuses in the Netherlands have been adequately addressed and resolved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. I thought the speaking time was stopped the moment you tabled a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u15	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u16	Okay, then I'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u17	As many of you know, it is customary for motions to be tabled in second term, but you undoubtedly have arguments as to why it should be now. I ask Members whether there is sufficient support for tabling the motion. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you. The reason is to speed up the debate, in connection with last night. Mr. Chairman. Our democratic rule of law is in a certain state of dissolution. The wounds are deep by now. As far as PVV is concerned, the holding of new elections as soon as possible could be a start of recovery, but with the next coalition parties in the House of Representatives there is unfortunately no such thing for the Dutch people for the time being. That turned out to be from Nokiagate again recently. There's a lot of morals out there. Nota bene the Prime Minister, who also teaches in a secondary school in his spare time and thus essentially has a double role as a model, is at the forefront of undermining confidence in democracy. We can conduct policy debates in this house, pass laws, establish integrity committees, but as long as there is no moral awareness, the rule of law remains an illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u19	I actually have a question on the motion that has just been tabled. Are you calling on the Dutch government to behave unconstitutionally?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u20	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All I'm saying is, improve the world, but start with yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u21	You know that the Dutch Constitution requires the Dutch Government to work for the international legal order. That means you shouldn't keep your mouth shut if international law is violated. That's the government's job. You should actually urge the government to do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u22	In my opinion, the Dutch government's job is also to take care of the population in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, perhaps not as far as you are concerned, the Dutch people are still in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u23	I think you also swore on the Constitution. The Constitution applies to all those who speak here, including you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u24	You're right, but in the Constitution... You're right, let me put it this way. Once again, as far as I am concerned, the Dutch Government is primarily there for Dutch citizens. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Our democratic rule of law... I don't remember where I went. Our democratic rule of law is in a certain state of dissolution. No, I'd already had this. The next sentence is very important, so I'm just going to repeat it. We can conduct policy debates in this house, pass laws, establish integrity committees, but as long as there is no moral awareness, the rule of law remains an illusion. For now, therefore, it will be mainly used with a patch here and a bandage there, while major changes are needed. The analysis of sociologist Rob van Heerde, whom he sent to all members of the First Chamber at the end of December, can probably help. In his analysis he makes a number of suggestions which should contribute to the creation of a truly democratic state, including the rewriting of Article 91 of the Constitution. As I mentioned earlier, the PVV is deeply concerned about the pandemic treaty, but also about other international conventions, such as the Marrakesh Treaty and the Paris Convention, which have far-reaching implications for our citizens and which they have never been able to vote on. In this light, Van Heerde proposes that a new Article 91 should at least include the fact that decisions on treaties are not only reserved for the States General, but that a role has also been assigned to the Dutch citizen, among others. The abovementioned article will therefore also have to describe at what stage and manner of decision-making this role is given shape and content. A referendum could be envisaged. I hereby submit the next motion. The: Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-Van de Klashorst and Mr Van Hattem proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the Dutch democratic rule of law can be improved in several areas;]] [[on the signing of international treaties by the Cabinet, there is currently no role for the Dutch citizen, whereas such treaties often have a significant impact on Dutch society;]] [[Whereas the decision-making process on international conventions can be improved by not only reserving the decision-making process in the field of treaties to the States-General alone, but by actively involving Dutch citizens in this process;]] [[calls on the Government to give the people the opportunity to express their views in a referendum when concluding international treaties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you. Then we have already heard Mr Recourt from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have deleted it firmly in my text, but as short as the time I have been given, I do not think I will take it up. But aside from that, I'm gonna start soon. The state of the rule of law can be explored and flown through many, an almost infinite number of points of view and issues, but I confine myself to three questions. Three questions which contain the important concerns of the PvdA Group about the current and future functioning of the Dutch rule of law. The three questions are as follows: One: what have been the developments since the last debate in this House on the state of the rule of law? Two: does the rule of law give everyone equal legal protection? Three: how should we deal with the truth in times of progressive digitisation? So first of all, developments over the last two years. Two years ago, we spoke with the legal predecessors of today's rule of law about the state of the rule of law. It wasn't good for it then, more than two years ago. The children's allowance scandal made it increasingly clear that the rule of law does not protect a large group of people where they should have. This dysfunction could be attributed to all three state powers. There have been a number of positive developments since the previous debate. This is due to the dynamics created by that child allowance scandal. All the relevant bodies of the government have since looked in the mirror, with the exception of the House of Representatives. Social debate and these self-evaluations have led to fundamental adjustments and this process will continue for a while, including in this house. As a result, the formal balance of power within the triad has not shifted, but one of three, namely the administrative judge, fills in its role better. The administrative judge is once again aware that legal protection of citizens against the government means that the substance of the case must be looked at. The principle of proportionality set out in Article 3:4 General Administrative Law Act has been dusted and the ruling of the Joint Supreme Administrative Courts of 2 February of this year has been proudly put in the window and confirmed very recently. The administrative judge will hopefully no longer be able to maintain obvious disproportion of a decision by relying on the autonomy of the legislator, on procedure or on marginal scrutiny. The individual seeker is once again seen, the government is limited, not only in the individual case but also at the level of law, because both the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice and the Administrative Court of the Council of State seek dialogue with the other state power, in this case the legislator and the auditor. They do this by raising laws that they think are bad in practice. They thus express the view that justice is more than the impact of the general will in a law in a formal sense. Justice is the key concept by which the interaction and thus the tension of democracy on the one hand and the rule of law on the other hand are shaped. And although this makes the judge more vulnerable to criticism that she is politically engaged and not purely legal reasoning, it is a very welcome development. The application of the law leads to obvious injustice in a concrete case, if the judge is to speak: by failing to enforce the decision or regulation or by pointing out to politics the unjust outcome of the law. If it does not do so, as has been done for too long in the children's allowance scandal, it neglects its core task. This criticism is far more fundamental and valid than the accusation that the judge would wear too many political glasses; at least if the state powers are stable and balanced. For every change in the task implementation there is a danger of moving to the other side. Does the Minister share that analysis? The cabinet, and therefore these ministers and State Secretary, has an interest as legislator and executive in the efficient and effective implementation of plans. A critical administrative judge could stand in the way of this. Think of destroying building permits due to too high nitrogen deposition. On the other hand, however, the Minister of Justice in this cabinet is also the guardian of the rule of law. Can the Minister provide an insight into how she is shaping the inflamed tension between instrumentality on the one hand and legal protection on the other? Mr. Chairman. The child allowance scandal has at least one other, not directly visible effect on the rule of law. My group believes that the intentions put forward by the government in response to this child benefit scandal are promising. The so-called responsive government, which we asked for in the previous debate on the state of the rule of law, finally gets hands and feet: avoid objections, do not go to appeal too quickly, test mediation, see the individual citizen, do not wait until he comes to you but go actively to him or her, take the phone, do not overestimate the capacity of people, etc. It is still quite a challenge how this personalised and individual element should be shaped in an increasingly automated decision-making process, but there is also attention to this. The Ombudsman's opinions, which have been pointing in this direction for many years, seem to have gained weight over the children's allowance scandal. It seems that the so-called human dimension is going to be better designed. All these good intentions can only work if the government approaches its citizens with confidence. Therefore stop structural mistrust, stop the compulsive focus on combating fraud and control, acknowledge that people make mistakes and realize that most people want to continue to act and live within the limits set by our rule of law. And above all, put the good intentions into practice. That will prove to be difficult enough, not least because there is a danger here too that the balance of more tailor-made work will go to randomness and discrimination. Then we replace one monster, the sample of bias over and discrimination against groups, for the other monster, that of bias over and discrimination against individuals. In practice, the same people are screwed. Similar cases should also be treated equally where possible. This calls for regulation and a restrained application of the possibility to derogate from it. A hardness clause looks at cases which the legislator has not taken into account, but this does not solve all the problems. For example, in the case of the child allowance scandal, a hardness clause would probably not have worked. The solution here was, inter alia, the application of the principle of proportionality. A hardness clause is therefore not necessary in every law, I say just to make a different sound, so that we may have a little more debate today. The legislator's mandate must not be undermined too much by backdoors. In short, measurement by legislator and judge is the key word. This can only be done if all players know and take a role in the state system. I wish the Ministers every success in this and ask them at this moment whether they recognize the danger of losing sight of the pendulum towards randomness and how they guard that this does not happen. Then I come to my second question: does the rule of law give everyone equal protection? I'll give you the answer straight away: no, and that's bad. No, because the law has traditionally been used to protect property. Capital crimes are punished relatively severely in relation to, for example, personal integrity violations such as sexual assault and rape. In addition, people who depend on a benefit or a supplement for their income are treated with mistrust and errors are considered a crime. As a criminal justice officer, I've seen the endless procession of underprivileged and confused passing by, over and over again. The effect of this punishment carousel is very limited. And yet we continue to do so, while the solution lies outside that repressive criminal law. In short, the right protects property, even literally in the First Protocol to the ECHR. This sets the position to 1-0 for power. In addition, legal protection in our regulated society is a complex issue. This requires specialist knowledge, which is expensive. Access to justice is problematic for many. 2-0 for the wealthy. Use of the law by the board then. Once again, there has been a tradition of using criminal law on the behaviour of groups that are already struggling. I have already mentioned the almost obsessive hunt for alleged supplement fraudsters, but this also applies to people on welfare benefits. We have not yet discussed the possibility that a boy with a Moroccan appearance, for example, will be held up by the police in relation to a boy with a European-Dutch appearance. 3-0. On the other hand, there is relatively limited detection and prosecution capacity for white-collar crime. The chances of a fraud running into a lamp are very small. But it goes one step further. People and companies with wealth can hire expensive consultants who know the loopholes of the law and thus evade wealth from the tax authorities. With this help, the Zuidas has grown. If it is true that outside the lines of the law is coloured, then there is such a battery of legal nuisance power that the government can handle only a limited number of such matters. Sometimes, for reasons of efficiency, a deal is made. 4-0. The chances of you going to jail are greater for the same reason for the non-powerful than for the wealthy. There is a table showing the amount of fraud demanded by the prosecution for an unconditional prison. There's no such table for white-collar crime. In fact, natural persons regularly emerge from the dance by putting a company between them. 5-0. Then add that the distinction does not go exclusively, but often via ethnic lines. The government is mostly looking for people with no assets, and there again the most among people with a different ethnic background. And where you're looking, you'll find it. That then justifies looking further. Logaritmes reinforce this process. Not the unwanted behavior will eventually become the background to determine whether repressive power of the government targets you, but your ethnicity. The recognition of institutional racism in the Tax Administration is a very big scratch on our rule of law. This will probably be discussed separately in the various houses of our Parliament, but I would like to ask the Ministers how it can be ensured that there is no institutional racism in other areas of government. How is it prevented from ever happening again? I have prepared a motion on this point. I hope it's not necessary. Finally, do not underestimate all the scandals in governance and politics, and what they lead to in the context of the exemplary role. "Great gentlemen and ladies even get away with it" is often, rightly or unjustly, the image. These are in a nutshell some of the reasons that make many turn their backs on the democratic rule of law. The rule of law is not there for them. Here too, perhaps the most imaginative example is the parents of the child allowance scandal, in which all the above mentioned elements return. The Labour Party lacks in its analysis of its actions in this scandal the observation that it is also an expression of an unnamed but structural and long-standing unequal functioning of the rule of law. The childcare allowance scandal is not an incident. The first step to reduce inequality is to recognise, see, be ashamed of or at least feel uncomfortable about this inequality of our rule of law. That is why I ask: do the Ministers and the Secretary of State recognise that the Dutch rule of law does not provide equal legal protection for everyone? The second step is to stop the gatspe that success is a choice, that your position in society is your own merit. Many people are stuck in their problems and experience that not only the government, but also the law is working against them. It is precisely our rule of law that protects vulnerable people, but fails far too often. This is the state of our rule of law. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, this is the true crisis in the rule of law. The children's allowance scandal, I repeat, is merely an expression of this. The third step is to take and prioritise measures. The complete elimination of inequality is, of course, impossible. Inequality is very persistent, also on many other dossiers; think of education. But the effort to reduce and reduce inequality is very much needed. My next question to the government is therefore how it is combating inequality in the protection of the rule of law. What concrete measures are being taken? I'll give you a few moves. I welcome the money that this cabinet makes available to the social lawyer. I hope this will be enough. High-quality legal aid available is an important weapon in aligning the difference. We'll talk about this later. In what way will the cabinet tackle the so-called facilitators, the lawyers, accountants, car rental companies, notaries, etc. that make criminal infrastructure possible? In what way does the cabinet engage in cases where this can be done, on alternatives to conflict resolution, both in criminal law and in administrative law? And what are the experiences so far in local justice, where the judge wants to settle easily, closely and widely disputes? In what way is the cabinet going to make it visible that on the one hand protection and on the other hand prosecution is more or less the same for everyone? Imaging, promoting and upholding equality of law - everyone lives under the same standards - is of great importance for the support of the rule of law. Is this cabinet prepared to allow the criminal court to carry out its core task of seeking an optimal outcome in an individual case and thus offering as much justice as possible? If that is the case, why is the cabinet so obstinately clinging to the extension of the public service ban, knowing that in an individual case this will lead to injustice towards the victim or offender? And when is the government gonna stop beating on retaliation and revenge? Would emphasis on recovery, the position of the victim, preventing repetition, dealing with responsibilities, treating a disorder and a form of detention that really provides for resocialisation not be many times more effective for the majority of people in contact with criminal law than the current, particularly retaliation-oriented, dead-end road for all those disadvantaged? For the record, I am expressly not talking here about serious organised crime, but about most of the crimes. They happen at work, in the neighborhood, within the family and so on. Mr President, I come to my final question: how should we deal with the truth in times of progressive digitisation? As a judge, I've experienced that the truth doesn't exist. You can surround her. A lot... I'm gonna stop, because I think there's a question about the previous part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u28	I am still thinking about the impressive speech you made, which I broadly agree with. It almost feels like too practical a question, but I still want to ask it. A number of abdominal pain dossiers have been mentioned in the Council's annual report on the case-law. You also mentioned the improvement cycle. What interests me is how the legislator should deal with those files. There have been identified bottlenecks. Those are very practical things, such as the transition fee in labour law, the CAK fines... some very practical things. However, legislation must, of course, be adapted for this purpose. What would be a conceivable sequel to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u29	As I said in my text, I am very pleased with this dialogue because if the judge really were to wear a political pants, the rule of law would also be in danger. I think it is quite right that if the judge finds problems, he should return them to the legislator and auditor. I also think that this is essentially the operation of the triad. This operation of the trias............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Parliament is a bit of both, at least when it comes to the Lower House. I imagine that the government takes this to heart and where the government is not prepared to adapt, that individual MPs may come to own-initiative legislation for repair. And then, of course, we have to see if there are majorities for that. If that is not the case, then so is the operation of the triad, we will say, because in the end we live under a democratic system, a democratic mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr Recourt continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u33	Okay, so this was about truth in times of progressive digitisation, because the truth doesn't exist. But you can surround her. Much depends on interpretation and perception. Some of the facts are still to be established. The soil under our rule of law, the solid ground under our legal feet, is very often still to establish the relevant facts. Almost every sentence begins with it. The bourgeois stand, the Cadaster, the notary, they all exist by the pardon of facts. Artificial intelligence has recently come to the point that fictional texts can be written as if they were of an authority. Graphic footage will soon be indistinguishable from real for an expert. Last week we saw an example of such a deep-fake movie, but you can also make such a video and very soon of even better quality if you are looking for a close alibi. A forged digital signature on a deed or other contract is increasingly difficult to distinguish from a real one. Add to this that more and more legal traffic takes place digitally. How do we guard the soil under our rule of law, the fact-finding? Is the government aware of this threat and if so, what has it done to identify this threat? Is the government also in talks with other parties, such as information specialists and notaries? It is precisely the notarial profession that has traditionally stood for the authenticity of documents and the reliability of registers. Is the government talking to this profession about how they shape their core tasks in current and foreseeable digital developments, for example by validating the different data flows of interest to the rule of law? In general: is the Dutch rule of law prepared for increasingly difficult distinctions between real and false? Are authorities involved in the rule of law sufficiently capable of verifying the authenticity of digital sources? It is also important to accept acts and judgments from other EU countries without their own examination. That is why the question of how well this is regulated within the EU is also raised. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a piece on the press, which is addressed in particular to the Secretary of State. An independent and diverse press is another vital condition for the functioning of our democratic rule of law. Here is the same problem, which is what facts are, even more pregnant. Digital developments make it increasingly easier to present credible alternative "facts" and keep alternative readings out of the field of view. This makes traditional media party in the debate and makes them vulnerable. This makes it possible for growing groups of people to confront each other about the underlying facts and not about their interpretation. Was there even corona? Does Earth even warm up? In the previous speech we heard that question being asked here. Is there any war in Ukraine? Nothing is as old as the manipulation of news facts, but now it is happening on a scale and a manner that has not been shown before. This also undermines the functioning of the rule of law, for example because the judge is no longer accepted as the last speaker, for example by refusing to accept election results. My group realizes that public intervention in the content of news is undesirable. However, the public authorities can create conditions in which this independent, pluralistic news provision is realised and widely known, including local and regional ones. Perhaps even juíst local and regional, because here the balding and thus the threat to the functioning of the rule of law is greatest. In its report on Local Media, the Culture Council has set out how much money should be added annually, including in order to maintain the legal value of local media. The government has more resources than direct funding. For example, it can also impose a tax on the largest recipients of advertising revenue. These are digital platforms like Facebook. The funds could then directly benefit the regional media. Is the government prepared to investigate possibilities for this? Mr. Chairman. As far as the Kingdom is concerned, I agree with what Mr Karimi said, in particular with regard to the settlement of disputes and the functioning of treaties. Then I'll come to a conclusion. The state of the rule of law is bad on an important part. He doesn't protect everyone equally. In fact, he protects the good people better than the people who deserve protection. The child allowance scandal was a pregnant example of this. Our rule of law is also threatened by digital developments in determining the facts and displaying independent and pluralistic news, especially locally. On the other hand, there is a cautious improvement in the state of the rule of law as regards the attitude and action of the public authorities and the courts in the area of administrative law. My group hopes that this government will take structural measures to strengthen the state of the rule of law in the long term. This prevents a mop-up course from incident to incident and it is the legitimacy of this debate. I am therefore very curious about the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you. You have indeed remained generously within the speaking time you have indicated. I shall then give the floor to Mr Rombouts, who is speaking on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. How is our rule of law still standing? That is the subject of the debate we are having here today. For many years in the Netherlands, we could be proud of the democratic system and the rule of law that previous generations have given us. We live, as it were, on the gifts of our ancestors. But can we still be proud of the state in which our rule of law is today? Are we good ancestors, too? Will the children of our children also be proud of the rule of law which we will have left to them? For is it not our expensive duty not to repay our ancestors so much as to pay future generations in advance? And should we not consider, as the German Constitutional Court ruled, the protection of fundamental rights, too, that the consequences of us do and do not be passed on to future generations? I know, Mr President, that was in that statement about the climate. But does this not apply equally to the maintenance of the rule of law? Our rule of law is founded on rules and institutions. Rules laid down in laws and international conventions protecting the fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights of citizens from the power of the state. Everyone is bound by the law that he himself has drafted, including the government. Rights and freedoms should only be restricted if they are regulated by law. The power of the state is divided into multiple institutions according to the principle of the trias politician so that there will never be absolute power. Legislative, executive and judicial power each fulfil their specific role in our carefully built-up state system. Independent judges are entitled on the basis of laws that can be controlled by everyone. A free press is guaranteed so that it can fulfil its important role as a watchdog of democracy and the rule of law. Our rule of law is a fragile building that must be continuously strutted. According to the Nijmegen professor Tinnevelt, in addition to these rules and institutions, a state-of-the-art awareness is also important for good maintenance. The formal system must be supported by a sense of the importance of the rule of law and its supporting principles. Otherwise you can have a beautiful structure, but then it collapses. According to Harvard Professor Mark Moore, the state of the rule of law, what we are doing today, is three things: content, organisation and support. The content, the vision, the rules and the agreements of our rule of law are fine. The rule of law is still a solid foundation for the rule of law. Otherwise, the organisation, the institutions, the capacity, the number of people and the number of competent people at the disposal of the government to carry out its tasks. After years of cutting back on police, prosecutor's office and justice, the tide seems to be turning. The government agreement envisages a lot of money to strengthen the core institutions of our rule of law, rising to a structural amount of EUR 1 billion a year. Perhaps the most important question is the acceptance of the current legitimacy of our rule of law. Let me start with the good news: according to the Venice Commission, the Netherlands generally has a well-functioning state with strong democratic institutions and guarantees of the rule of law. I quote: 'Although the shortcomings in the protection of individual rights revealed in the child allowance affair are serious and systematic and concern all branches of government, it appears that the mechanisms of the rule of law in the Netherlands have worked in the end'. The recommendations made in the reports of the National Ombudsman and the Committee of Inquiry of the Lower House have been taken seriously by all sections. I quote the Venice Commission once again: 'The Netherlands appears to be able and willing to deal with its mistakes and to rectify them'. That was October last year. Mr. Chairman. My group, too, has been shocked to learn of the damage suffered by victims in material and intangible terms by failing public intervention, not only in the case of the surcharge affair, but also in the case of gas extraction in Groningen and the problem of nitrogen. Today, however, we want to focus on the ability and, above all, the willingness of institutions of the rule of law to look in the mirror, to regularly do unsolicited self-reflection. Looking back to learn from it, to learn from it, because reflection is always about you, about yourself. Let us start with ourselves today. In this Chamber, we master the art of asking others about "requests the government" and "requires the government" to "dedicate" to "the government." But we have a separate responsibility for the quality and feasibility of legislation. Wouldn't it be a pleasure for us to look in the mirror on a regular basis? I know, collective self-reflection is not a popular activity in this house, but we have to admit that of all the institutions of our democratic rule of law, we, the First Chamber, are the last in line to look back at our role in the child allowance affair. Government, House of Representatives, case law and the Council of State preceded us. Mr. Chairman. Today, my group does not want to fall into the ritual of asking the government dozens of questions, from 'how does the government think' to 'will the minister commit', but rather to consider the willingness to self-reflection of the institutions of our rule of law: all institutions, including legislative ones. During the preparatory expert meetings, before this debate, I asked several representatives the question: what do you think you can do to keep our rule of law? The President of the College of Attorneys General indicated that the Public Prosecutor's Office wants to focus even more on price stability, consistency and long-term sustainability. He also had a request to us, namely that we be careful with legislation. On behalf of the Court of Justice, its President explained that they are actively recruiting judges to eliminate backlogs. Furthermore, serious work is being done on the law of speed and superfast law and more attention is being paid to the human dimension. This President appealed to us not to give judges new abdominal pain files, in this case court cases, in which citizens are caught up by bad or oppressive legislation from the political sphere. The general dean of the Dutch order of lawyers stated that lawyers should also set an example and that the order is well aware of the risks that individual lawyers face in their professional activities. To prevent them from succumbing to the temptations and temptations to which they are regularly exposed, the task force for prevention has been launched. The Association of Dutch Municipalities indicated that local authorities are strongly committed to preventing and strengthening the resilience of citizens and businesses. Unfortunately, the representative of the Dutch Association of Journalists did not pick up my glove, so we have to do it for this target group with the advice of Professor Brouwers, professor of journalism, who said: be less complacent and more self-critical, and have an eye for the consequences of your work. Fortunately there was also the main editorial commentary in the NRC last Saturday. It recognised that journalism is also sensitive to the lure of mistrust; an attitude that sometimes leads to a hostile atmosphere towards rulers. Mr. Chairman. Not only as a result of the child allowance affair, institutions proved willing to keep their own functioning under review. During the expert meeting, representatives of various occupational groups expressed the same willingness in a more general sense. Would it not be a good idea for our Chamber to express this willingness and, for example, to evaluate its own functioning every two years? Would you or your colleague in the capacity of President, together with the Registrar, play an active role in this? In such a debate, my group is not concerned with taking each other's measure, but with discussing our different roles. In doing so, we should address the appeals made in the expert meetings: be thrifty with legislation, avoid new abdominal pain files, in which citizens get caught up by bad or oppressive legislation from the political arena, and promote regular talks between state powers about the quality of legislation. What to think of the Bosman Committee's observation in March 2021: "The House of Representatives lacks interest, knowledge and information to best fulfil its co-legislative and controlling tasks in terms of implementation." Or the adoption of the Van Dam Committee in February 2021: "serious shortcomings and errors in the legislator." These are observations which we, too, should like to discuss as the Supreme Court. I'm considering submitting a motion in second term to achieve such a self-reflection process. Enough about the institutions, because the rule of law is not institutional.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u36	Still an enlightening question. We are, of course, working on a process of self-reflection and that ends in a debate, probably after the summer. In my opinion, the House of Representatives has not yet done anything about self-reflection, unlike the report Unfamiliar injustice. But that's not self-reflection. I'm still not quite sure what Mr Rombouts means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u37	We're in the middle of something. There's an investigation report, I know. But we still have to talk about it with each other and so come to that final look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u38	Okay, but you support the process, so I understand from your words, that we're a little late, but that we have deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u39	That's about the child allowance affair. I would like to say that I am sure I have said it, but perhaps it did not come across well in a broad sense wanting to do self-reflection. We have very often here frowning eyebrows, blushing faces when we see a colleague doing something we think is different. My big appeal is: let us also occasionally agree on these different roles about what exactly the role of the First Chamber is, so important for the legislation in our country. What is it and do we have a shared opinion about it? And, Mr President, I would also very much like to admit in advance that we may not always agree on this, but just the anticipating effect of having such a self-reflection debate once a year, once every two years, can be reinforcing. I hope, above all, that this will strengthen the culture of this institution so that it will remain stronger and thus strengthen democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u40	Finally, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you. I look forward to the contribution of the CDA to that debate that we are going to have, because that is precisely one of the recommendations of the committee. So that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u42	I have a question, or maybe I can connect to the self-reflection or make it a little wider. The self-reflection starts with a quorum of course, but well, that's faint and then looking at ourselves. But I think that the piece that is being discussed is not just a report from the Record Committee. The Council of State has proposed that once every two years, I quote from a letter from last year, 'the State of the law prepares' and also discusses it with Parliament. Would you agree that this is a good idea, either on or as a second item on the agenda of this self-reflection or as a separate debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u43	Of course, more importantly, I know how you advocated this. I also looked at you when I read the sentence that was also called for by the expert meetings to take seriously the motion that was tabled and to promote regular talks between state powers on the quality of legislation. I meant this as a precursor to an agenda for those self-reflection moments. In doing so, you could look at what has gone wrong in recent years, but also at what committees have advocated earlier and what we may still have to expect from our own input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr Rombouts continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u45	I said enough about the institutions, because the rule of law is not the institutions. No, the rule of law belongs to all of us. Without the support of social partners, a rule of law is doomed to disappear. Without sufficient citizens with a state of law, the rule of law will ultimately not survive. My group welcomes Professor Hirsch Ballin's lack of vigilant citizenship and moral political leadership in our country. Hirsch Ballin is worried and optimistic at the same time. In his view, trust in democracy and the rule of law must be regained and the erosion of the rule of law stopped. He believes that in the end we will succeed in maintaining the rule of law. This starts with the CDA Group's knowledge and appreciation of the public values that underpin our rule of law: freedom, legal certainty and equality of law. In order to build up this knowledge, there is an important task in education, especially now that recent research by the Verwey-Jonker Institute has shown that a significant minority of our population is prepared to put parliamentary democracy clearly aside for urgent and complex problems. Over the past few decades, education has focused on the formation of wealthy citizens. As far as I'm concerned, the focus may be shifted one letter over the next few years, from bold to courageous. Moreover, education is not alone in this, because did you know, Mr President, that the VFonds, the National Fund for Peace, Freedom and Veteran Care, provide grants for projects that contribute to the enhancement of the democratic rule of law and to projects that strengthen people's skills to actively contribute to a peaceful society? Preferably young people, brave people, who stand up against injustice and want to stand up for peace and justice. Only together can we uphold our rule of law. This requires commitment, permanent commitment from citizens, social partners and constitutional institutions. With shared ideals and the shared will to ensure that citizens who do not have the income and the means to take care of themselves also have a decent life. So we need more than a state-of-the-art awareness. All sections of the population must feel that, in the democratic rule of law, there is also a social perspective for them. Or, as a former teacher of mine recently wrote, the democratic rule of law will work as long as the municipality feels the benefits. Or, in other words, in my own words, a democratic rule of law deserves this predicate only if it is also a social rule of law. A state that looks at others, at people in need, at people in poverty, at people on the run. A state where there is respect for everyone, including future generations. Despite all the concerns of today, my group, the CDA Group, is looking hopefully towards the future. I'd rather speak of hope than optimism. An optimistic attitude to life works, as the English literary critic Terry Eagleton tells us, easy complacency and laxness in our hands. Hope, on the other hand, is more radical and more active. Those who are hopeful know very well that things can go wrong but at the same time remain out of enthusiasm for an outcome that they would like to see hold on to the prospect of success. I see I have three minutes left. That's convenient, because doesn't my group have any questions at all to the government? Oh, yes, I do. I could think of dozens. I'm full of five. Are the various rulers prepared to address the various professions of our rule of law regularly to their willingness to self-reflection? Judges, notaries, lawyers, journalists. What about strengthening the supervision of the profession of lawyers? What is the situation with the strengthening of social law, so essential to a democratic rule of law? And with the use of the hundreds of millions from the government agreement to strengthen police, prosecutor's office, justice and intelligence? When are we finally going to get the standard of one district agent out of 5,000 inhabitants promised and coveted by various governments for years? Mr President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thank you. I call Mr Janssen. He also speaks today on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Trust, the lack of confidence and the restoration of trust, that is the thread of my contribution today. I had said "today and tomorrow," but I'm gonna limit that to "today." Today we are holding a policy debate on the state of the rule of law. It is a good thing that we have taken the time for this. For me today, therefore, it is not so much a question-and-answer debate but, above all, I hope, an exchange of views with each other and with the rulers. But I would like to begin by thanking everyone who has contributed to the preparation of this debate. This preparation was sometimes accompanied by the necessary inconvenience, I say honestly, because I find it uncomfortable to have a discussion on our rule of law with a number of people with whom we could have spoken for two hours individually without problems, even though we would have felt that it was too short and that it might have taken longer. I would therefore particularly like to thank those who took part in the preparatory talks for getting over this and for having entered into the discussion with us and for making meaningful contributions to our reflection and reflection. Mr. Chairman. I want to talk today about trust, but also about lack of trust and mistrust. This is now a popular topic for columnists and, as we understand from the Prime Minister, also for ministers. Having said that, there is something that bothers me in the whole discussion lately about trust and, above all, about distrust. It is striking that Van Dale defines mistrust as "1. lack of trust" and "2. suspicion, suspicion." For me, these are two very different meanings of the same word. Suspicion and suspicion, in order to define it legally, are for me a qualified form of lack of trust. In this approach, a repetition of events may develop over time into suspicion and suspicion when we intend to suspect intent or evil. As far as my group is concerned, this debate calls for nuance before everyone starts shouting at each other. Suspicion and suspicion as a qualified form of lack of trust. I would therefore like to keep the term 'wrong' for'subsidies' and 'argwaan' and, for the rest, to speak of 'lack of trust'. If we look at ourselves, Mr Rombouts was also talking about this, perhaps we should also look at our parliamentary instruments. For example, does a horse medicine like a motion of censure always convey the good feeling? For we in the Chamber can come to the conclusion that we believe that a minister or secretary of state is no longer the right person to solve the problems without being suspicious or suspicious. Maybe a motion of lack of confidence in such a case would raise a little less resistance, even though that's not funny, it's just a thought. That is more objective, because that term does not appeal to malice, but nevertheless clearly expresses a parliamentary judgement. Mr. Chairman. I start with this because I lack confidence and meanwhile I also perceive suspicion and suspicion widely in our society. This brings our rule of law to the heart. Mistakes can be made, including under the rule of law. Making mistakes is human, but not fixing mistakes is inhumane. Certainly where mistakes made are not prevented while they could have been, there is a major problem in our rule of law, especially when you, as a legislator, as a government or as a judge, fail to avoid avoidable mistakes. Even more worrying is the situation when a avoidable error cannot be repaired or if there is no will to do so, if recovery is rejected with arguments such as "too complex," "too much" or "too expensive." I can, of course, list everything that has gone wrong over the past decade today, but the question I would like to ask is: how could it go so wrong? And above all: how could things continue to go wrong? Following that, the obvious question is how to prevent things from going so wrong and can continue to go so far. How can citizens rely once again on the fact that the government is the confidence-building protector that it should be, the beacon that can be put at risk? What has been done to the parents and their children has been called the "child allowance affair" with a political euphemistic term, but of course that is not an affair. It is a disaster for the people who have been affected, a disaster of institutional racism that has been possible over many years. The cabinet does not now want to speak of direct discrimination, which must be assessed and determined on a case-by-case or group basis. But then the Secretary of State says that it is difficult or perhaps impossible to establish this at individual level. For the victims we have already heard the first reactions yesterday: kite/reed, locker/wall. It slipped into it unintentionally. And then we wonder where that mistrust would come from. Mr. Chairman. The surcharge disaster isn't on its own. Unfortunately, the implementation practice in the Netherlands is a spectacle of such disasters. Groningen, surcharges, youth care, Limburg, I mention a few, but the question arises whether this is the responsibility of the performers or those who have burdened the performers with an impossible task. The combination of years of budget cuts on implementation, together with the increasing complexity of laws and regulations, is a recipe for disasters. That is exactly what has happened over the past decade. And what remains after a decade of cuts is a government that is structurally underhumanized on many fronts. Besides, strikingly, my spelling control doesn't want to take the word underhuman. I had to add it myself. The spell check only wants to put me on undermanned, but that aside. In addition, the government is largely unprepared, because there are no lessons learned from past mistakes: no time for; too much busy with the here and now. The reduction in public administration was an end in itself for the short term and more important than investing in a government prepared for its tasks for the future. Thus reign has become forwards instead of looking forwards. If something goes wrong in an already overasked organisation, then there is no saving anymore and it turns out that recovery is not possible or hardly possible. The risk-control reflex is common in the case of Not first investigate why the implementation has failed and how the existing one can be improved, but immediately flee into the administrative pavlov reaction: we are going to do it completely differently. How many times have I seen that? Supposedly decisiveness and distraction from the real problem in one piece. The Minister of Justice and Security announced last week that the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team will stop in the announced form. My group believes that this is a very good signal, apart from the content, but above all because it indicates that this risk-regulation reflex can also be stopped. In response to the horrendous murder of Derk Wiersum, a MIT was an example of feigned activity as far as my group is concerned. An intervention team, which I quote from the press release "Thanks to the investments of this cabinet, why should that be the first; that already disturbs me greatly to become an internationally operating team dedicated to exposing and frustrating criminal structures and their illegal income models that threaten to corrupt our society. How much action do you want to radiate with that? That's not how you win back the trust of the citizens. The Minister for Legal Protection is now coming up with an introduction test. I read the letter from April which deals with that. Over time, it has changed from "one year" to "when there's something useful to say about it," I understood from the letter "We're going to see if that law does what it's supposed to do and how it's supposed to do it." I'm gonna make this quick. I understand the intention, but I still see it as a kind of risk-regulation reflex, because what is such a test going to do if there are no consequences? Or does the Minister have the power of perseverance to simply repeal and stop such a law in the event of a negative outcome? What happens then? Is this introduction test going to lead to more than interdepartmental working groups that are going to look again at how it might be better? If there is no decisiveness, this will remain a measure in the risk-regulation reflex. I therefore reiterate my call very concretely, which I made on 10 March 2020 in our previous debate on the state of the rule of law: pull the dust comb through actions over the past decade. What works and has proven itself may remain; what does not work or no longer works as it should: stop. Look at that list of the Council of Justice. What are those headache files? What's not working anymore? Let the legal system clean up and get rid of all the feigned action, toughness and windowdressing. In addition, you could argue that some measures have been taken with good intentions, but that certainly does not apply to all measures. Many measures feigned force, politically motivated, without actually adding anything in practice. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the example of MIT deserves to be followed, I say to the Minister for Justice and Security. The dust comb through. What still works may remain; what does not or no longer works: away with it. I would like a response from the ministers. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the question of how it could have happened in our rule of law that so many people have been wronged, all the authorities involved must also look at themselves, with respect for all the High Colleges of State, I would like to add the authorities and how we deal with each other. The image that has formed with me in the preparations and in the conversations is especially that of the hedgehogs: be careful, moderate your tone, stay out of each other, be firm in the doctrine of the trias politician, be careful. Looking back it was an important factor that might have been decisive for the continuation of situations of unprecedented injustice, which became and is still being done to people. There was a single shouting in the desert, but those sounds did not change the behavior. Fortunately, we now see the recognition and recognition that the hedgehogs are best able to approach each other, without causing accidents. The Council for Justice will, in advance, make more emphasis to Parliament on the implications for the implementation of certain policies and certain political choices. Politically, the Council of State points out that in practice the government very often chooses the way of the administrative judge rather than seeking a solution out of court. That government often manages to get its rights in a very formal way, which is also a reason to get to that administrative judge in particular. The implementing authorities shall point to the complexity of the implementation of political compromises or rules resulting from the risk rule reflex. The question is whether we dare, within the margins of the trias politician, to give each other signals of imminent disaster. I hope so. I think we should do it, too. I also hope that the old reflexes will wear off. Mr. Chairman. The basis of our rule of law must be in order. The foundation needs to be reinforced, the leaking roof needs to be repaired. Understandable and manageable legislation leads to predictability and a predictable government that shows that it is reliable and can work mercifully to restore confidence where necessary. Thank you to the National Ombudsman for this terminology. Institutions which form the basis of the rule of law should be allowed to play their role. Continuing on the current path with ill-thought-out laws and rules that predictably lead to legalization means more of the same for the future. With a leaky roof, the solution is not to buy more buckets, but to repair the roof. However, while the roof is still leaking, it is counterproductive to buy less buckets. That's only gonna make it leak harder. There will therefore have to be sufficient funding available for the current situation to deal with the problems. The sooner we put the basis of our rule of law back in order with understandable and manageable legislation, the faster the pressure on our rule of law will decrease and the more room is created for confidence to grow in our rule of law. It also affects the quality of legislation. How often do we not hear in this Chamber that the law may not be entirely perfect, but that it is a good idea what is regulated in the law? We need to be sharper on that ourselves. Whether it is in a coalition agreement or not, we need to be more involved in the assessment of legislative proposals that reach us. Let me give you a good example. Last week there was a good example in this Chamber about the adjustment of ballots, with the Minister of the Interior. It was an exchange of substantive arguments. A chamber and a minister who were willing to listen to each other. A law that didn't turn into concrete. The minister, who might have been able to reach more than 38 seats with the present bill, was convinced that it could be done better and went looking for a solution. And MPs were convinced of that again, because it could be a good legislative proposal in adapted form. Maybe it could have been better, but it was gonna do. I do not know what happened to the others who followed the debate, but I was pleased by that debate. That's how it's gonna be. This contributes to confidence in the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. A decade of political choices for austerity on the foundations of our rule of law has left its mark everywhere. Generic targets and discounts have been implemented without looking at the consequences for our rule of law. They did not ask themselves whether they could, but they persisted from financial dogmatism in austerity, despite the fact that it affected the foundations and that the recovery would cost disproportionately much more in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr President, may I take a look back at the previous issue? I wasn't at that ballot debate. I've read it and I can totally endorse it. We still have to vote on it later. I just wanted to get back to another point. We're talking a lot about self-reflection here. I always hear Mr Rombouts talking about this. In all those institutions that look at each other I don't get popular with this on the other side, but we're already not.Of course, the House of Representatives is one of the important factors. I do not know whether you will ever take a look at the motions that are adopted there every week. There's hundreds of them. They all call for all sorts of things. Self-reflection on that behavior, on that line reflex might help. That's an observation. My question is: should we not be more alert to the architecture of certain legislation? Take the surcharges. We're talking about 6 million households. I believe that the Court of Auditors has calculated that 26 million refunds were made in the period 2014-2017. That's actually en-and. Turns out it's almost unrecoverable right now. Shouldn't we be extra alert about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u49	In fact, the SP has always made proposals for this. We find it absurd that so many people have to live with a supplement. Make sure you pay a decent wage so people can pay their rent on their income and just get food on the table. You take care of that, you don't need those supplements. And don't put it in a service that's meant and designed to raise money instead of spending money, because then you're sure it'll go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr. Backer, a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u51	That is a politically understandable answer, but I was actually more concerned with the institution. You could, of course, process it differently in taxation. Anyway, I made that point, I guess. I think we agree on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u52	If D66 agrees with the SP that we should strive for a society in which we do not need surcharges because people themselves can provide for their maintenance, then we fully agree. I heard Mr Backer say that, although his choice of words might have been a little different and more cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr Janssen continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u54	The current state in which the foundations of our rule of law lie has not happened to us; it has been a result of political choices. But it is also a choice to do things differently now, to rebuild that confidence-building government together, and to build, to speak with the National Ombudsman, a government that is honest, simple and understanding. We must return to a legislative, controlling and judicial rule of law that has regained citizens' trust, not through words but through actions. We must return to a rule of law in which the free press also has an important control and information role, in which journalists can work and publish without fear and are protected, without getting inappropriate accusations that they are poor of trust. Mr. Chairman. We will not be able to take away the years of suspicion and suspicion in one go. Too many people have been wronged in our rule of law. Too little has been done for this. I mentioned the allowances, Groningen, Limburg and youth care as examples. Those people are still waiting for recovery, while the suffering continues. But it must be possible to remove suspicion and suspicion as a qualified form of lack of trust, if we are willing to listen instead of just sending. This can be done mainly by being honest and open, and also, if we look at ourselves, by stopping making laws and rules that are not understandable and unmanageable, by stopping short-sighted cuts on the foundations of the rule of law, which is also a form of undermining, and by stopping it from making it impossible for judges to make an optimal assessment. They have to weigh that up, not us for them. Mr. Chairman. Rounding up. Mr Backer mentioned a political answer, but this is also a debate on the foundations of our own thinking on the rule of law. As far as the SP is concerned, therefore, we will also have to say goodbye to the economic one-dimensional focus on liberalism, individualism and selfishness, for in our view, looking deeper, lies the cause of the degradation of trust as the basis of our living together. I'm not saying "society," I'm saying "living together," because it's a verb and not something that happens to us. Instead of social trust in each other and in ourselves, institutional suspicion and suspicion has become more and more in control of relations between citizens and the State. That's what we need to stop each other. Anyone who really wants institutional suspicion and suspicion to give way to social trust must therefore also deal with the structures that we have built over the past 25 years, which make it all possible. As SP, we use human dignity, equality and solidarity as core values in living together. If we really want to go there with each other, it requires no less than a social revolution, not only in thinking but above all in doing so within us. Mr President, I look forward to the exchange of views with the Ministers and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you. You, too, have remained within the speaking time indicated. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good practice in our house to wish people who still have to make a maiden speech good luck in advance. That is what I am doing to Mr Hiddema. I understand there was another reason for his absence yesterday than I understood. Mr. Chairman. It is the third time that I have participated in a policy debate on the state of the rule of law. The fact that the First Chamber members hold this debate every two years should surely lead to some improvement and progress in the state of the rule of law compared with previous years. But is that right? I would like to mention a number of worrying points. The last two years have been dominated by the corona crisis that caused a very unwanted division in society. Citizens were often opposed to each other. The childcare allowance affair required the necessary reflection of all the actors who were co-responsible for this, because parents were not given the legal protection they could count on. International drug crime seriously undermines the rule of law and causes serious social unrest. The excesses have long ceased to occur in the underworld, but also hit the upper world hard. In my 2020 contribution on the state of the rule of law, I referred to the lethal attack on lawyer Wiersum in September 2019. And again in June 2021 we were confronted with the horrific murder of Peter R. de Vries, which gave the concept of "shocked rule of law" a new dimension. The increase in the number of declarations of online crime and cybercrime increased by 21% in one year. If cybercrime is not adequately dealt with in criminal law, it will reduce citizens' confidence in the digital infrastructure and in the democratic rule of law, as lecturer Van der Burg warns in the annual report of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Chairman. My group fears that improving the state of our rule of law will still have to involve a great deal of commitment and work, apart from the complicating factor of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It will be a challenging period for these ministers. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's Annual Report 2021 includes a reflection on citizens in the international legal order, addressing further globalisation. It states that the European Member States have bundled their sovereignty rather than out of their hands. However, ever more internationalisation can give rise to concern about its own national position and be perceived as a threat to national sovereignty. The above-mentioned consideration rightly points out that more attention should be paid to the fact that many citizens feel lost in the international legal order. They see it as a threat from the outside. Dutch citizens are subject to regulations from Brussels as something they have no control over, in which they are not known, while those rules do intervene in their daily lives. Let me give you an example of this. The anti-corruption EC Directive led in the Netherlands to the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. This law introduced the PEP, a Political Exposed Person: a politically prominent person. This includes not only those who belong to that target group but also their family members. The implementation of this arrangement resulted in the fact that my son could not open a bank account for his own company as a start-up, because his mother is a PEP. Bank accounts for PEPs and their family members entail huge screening costs for financial institutions and risk high fines if they do not act according to the letter of the law. Elsevier Weekblad also addressed this issue in the article on PEP, a runaway fight against fraud leading to ridiculous consequences. Without any suspicion or evidence of money laundering or terrorist financing, the opening of a bank account for a PEP-related person shall be refused. That cannot be the intention of this legislation. Does the Minister for Justice and Security agree with my group that implementation of this law is now being applied disproportionately with unacceptable consequences? I'd like a response. What does it intend to do about this? Similar incomprehension also exists in the enforcement of the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation which protects citizens' privacy and data, but whose impact in practice can lead to very undesirable results. The ban on the processing of data and the exchange of information between organisations can work to the detriment of a citizen, so that, for example, they do not receive the additional benefit to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mrs Karimi, I suspect on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u58	I have to say, I have a bit of a feeling of discomfort. I would like to say that I find it uncomfortable when this debate talks about certain inconveniences of members of the families of speakers. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u59	If there's anything that makes Mrs. Karimi uncomfortable, it's unfortunate. By the way, this is often cited, also by people who, from their profession, sometimes cite an example or mention their position in a debate. Personally, it never makes me uncomfortable. Besides, this isn't just about my son. This is also, as I have indicated, widely elaborated in an article in Elsevier Weekblad. So, so be it. I went into the ban on the exchange of data based on the GDPR. It is clear that the complications associated with the exchange of medical data in the areas of care also encounter a great deal of incomprehension. This kind of undesirable side-effects of legislation is caused by overly strict application of regulation, ignoring the original intention, the spirit of the law. I would like a reflection from both ministers on how they intend to deal with this. Mr. Chairman. It is not for nothing that the Council, in its annual plan 2022, focuses on the human dimension, creating scope to balance interests and to deviate from regulation on the basis of personal circumstances. The call for tailor-made work was also reflected in the interviews that we, as members of the POC, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Effectiveness in Anti-Discrimination Legislation, reduced. This may also be a personal touch, but the report will be presented to this Chamber next week. The chairman of the council, Henk Naves, states: "Hard laws that cut the way to customization are a guarantee of injustice." A statement that my group broadly endorses. Naves refers, among other things, to two so-called abdominal pain files: the compulsory suspension of the driving licence during a fitness test and the further extension of the public service ban laid down in Article 22b of the Criminal Code, which further restricts the scope for the criminal court to impose a penalty. What are the ministers' views on tailor-made work? Do they also believe that there should be more room for this? If so, will this be taken into account in new legislation, for example through hardness clauses? What's the status of customization in court? During the corona crisis, online sessions were introduced via Teams of Skype to allow hearings to take place. In the context of security and efficiency, there is now a preference to allow criminal proceedings, in particular, to take place online rather than physically, but what are the dangers? The average Dutchman is not trained to present himself during an online session. The timely shut-off and turn on of microphones is a challenge in itself. That's what's bothering us in this room. This is certainly not feasible for the still large group of digibetes. All kinds of signals, including the non-verbal, that are visible during a physical session, fall away. My group from the Minister of JenV would like to hear how she sees the development of online court hearings in criminal law. Mr. Chairman. For years, the workload of judges has been high and the deficits are high. The considerable delays, particularly in the criminal justice chain, which had been caused by the use of retired judges, including 70-plussers, which allowed for additional hearings, have been somewhat reduced. The Temporary Law COVID-19 Justice and Security allowed the legal age limit of 70 years to be set aside for judges, but this measure only applies until 1 September 2023. As far as I know, there are several senators in this Chamber who are over 70 years of age. No one wonders whether they are still able to carry out their work properly. We should have the same confidence in judges who celebrated their 70th anniversary. Age discrimination in the labour market and in society is still a common problem with persistent prejudices, according to 50PLUS. Mr. Chairman. Due to an ageing population, the outflow of judges will be greater than the influx in the coming years. Timely justice with shorter lead times, enabling citizens to know where they stand, is an essential part of the state in which there is a democratic rule of law. That is why my group urges the Minister to extend for at least two years the measure which will enable retired judges to be deployed and which will expire in September 2023 in order to promote the further elimination of backlogs in the criminal justice chain. My group understood that the judiciary itself is also sympathetic to this. Of course, this should never become an obligation. Mr. Chairman. More and more political groups have tabled a motion in debates in the first term. I do so too, but on the understanding that if the Minister were to make an explicit commitment on the extension of the deadline, I would then withdraw the motion. The: Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas existing delays in criminal law were such that the criminal justice chain ceased to function as it should;]] [[Whereas a plan has been drawn up for this purpose, including the possibility of attracting retired judges, including 70-plus-year-olds, to hold additional hearings in order to catch up;]] [[Whereas this measure is based on the Temporary Law COVID-19 Justice and Security, which entered into force on 1 July 2020 and expires on 1 September 2023;]] [[Whereas, today, there is still a considerable lack of experienced and sufficient judges in the criminal justice chain, while in the coming years a greater outflow than is expected from judges;]] [[Whereas, in view of the above, it is important that retired judges who are willing to do so and who can contribute to the elimination of backlogs should retain criminal law for temporary use in the chain of law;]] [[calls on the Minister to consider whether the temporary measure to employ retired judges in supplementary criminal proceedings can also be regarded as an applicable measure if there is a need to do so at the end of the period referred to above by extending that period by at least two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u60	A brief procedural question. We were just talking about self-reflection and behavior. Well, I hear Mr Baay say that everyone will table a motion in the first term, so I'll do it. Isn't that a shame? Could you not simply rely on your own powers of persuasion to ensure that the cabinet responds positively to your questions? In the theoretical case that would not be the case, there may be the possibility to table a motion in second term. Wouldn't that be better for the manners?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u61	The motion has been filed. Mrs. Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you for this question to Mr Backer. I also say very explicitly that I will withdraw the motion immediately if I get the commitment. I actually assume that the motion is superfluous, given the conviction it expresses, but my contribution to motions is already very limited. And yes, if a custom changes and everyone does it in the first term, then I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u63	One comment. I don't think the usage has changed. However, it is a consistent line of PVV in both chambers to do so. I just wouldn't want to take that as an example. That's an observation, Chairman. No question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mrs. Bayj continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u65	Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the wise opinion of College President Van der Burg, expressed at the expert meeting on careful legislation, whereby the Vice-President of the Council of State, Mr De Graaf, responded to a question from me: be careful with legislation, look before you come up with new legislation, first what is already there, and only in exceptional cases introduce new legislation. We, as First Members of Parliament, should take this opinion to heart in the assessment of the legislative proposals before us. My group is looking forward to answering the questions put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you. Let me look at Mr Otten and see if he is ready to speak on behalf of the Otten Group. That's the case. He had apologized for a moment; therefore Mrs Baay led him as a speaker. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had also indicated to the executives that I needed a break from the consultation with KLM's state agent in connection with the emergency legislation on the financing of KLM. Thank you for your understanding. Mr. Chairman. Monday 30 May 2022. That was not only my birthday, but also the day when this First Chamber could not meet for the first time in its existence because of the lack of the necessary minimum number of members. The Otten Group was 100% present yesterday. Unfortunately, the absence of these senators illustrates the state of our rule of law. Today, Mr Hiddema of the Frentrop Group will also give his maiden speech. We wish him much strength at his first performance after a year and a half. We hope it is worth the wait and that Mr Hiddema will present us as the last speaker innovative legal insights. Mr. Chairman. The state of the rule of law, how does that stand? Not good. The danger is real that the enormous distrust in Dutch politics will soon pass to the Dutch rule of law. Conscienceless gangsters are becoming increasingly violent and have now found their own home country in the midst of our rule of law. This has resulted, among other things, in the horrific liquidations of lawyer Derk Wiersum and crime reporter Peter R. de Vries. Where does this end? Will we soon see members of the judiciary blow up on the A4 as in Italy in the 1990s? We must, of course, avoid this doom scenario at all costs. But our rule of law seems to slip out of our fingers. With a typical Dutch form of ostrich politics, the authorities try to reassure us that it is all very well and that we live in a cool country, a cool country where everything ends up on its feet. I wish. The Netherlands is in danger of becoming the rotten heart of Europe. That's what the Italian mafia expert Roberto Saviano said on 29 August last year in Buitenhof. And he's right. How did this happen? A lot of people wonder. I'll explain that to you. This is the result of a toxic cocktail of opportunism and indifference, a perfide blend that has penetrated into the heart and the capillaries of our political system. The Dutch political system has changed over the past decade into a kind of caste system with a true caste spirit, a sigh to be confined to one's own stand, sung away from the rest of society, often blinded by opportunism or foreign idealism and a one-dimensional focus on gaining prominent positions. In the gift of the Netherlands all this can be done, because settlementability, accountability, is often lacking and the bad example is given from the cabinet, where excuses and excuses say all problems have been waving away for years. Mr. Chairman. We must prevent this political rot from affecting our rule of law as well. We believe that a number of structural institutional changes are needed in our rule of law to prevent this. I'll treat them all. Especially for the cabinet I have divided that into six clear blocks. I shall begin with the constitutional review. The Constitution is a rather dead letter in the Netherlands that does not really live with the population as opposed to many other countries. This is largely due to the fact that, unlike the rest of the world, the judiciary in the Netherlands is not allowed to review our Constitution. Our group wants the Netherlands to step out of this international legal backlash and modernise in this area too. We have studied with great interest the view of the Supreme Court on constitutional review. It is good to note that there has been a broader support for the introduction of constitutional review, including at the Supreme Court. Of course, the way in which this is carried out in practice is very important. It is understandable in itself that the Supreme Court would prefer to incorporate this within the existing structures. Our group also understands this. Now that the judiciary and, in particular, the Supreme Court are given an even more prominent role in the rule of law in the introduction of constitutional review, it is essential that, as the reverse of the currency, a more transparent process of appointment of members of the judiciary and, in particular, of the High Council's advisers is introduced, now that they finally have the final say on the interpretation of our Constitution. This includes, for example, public hearings of prospective members of the Supreme Court in parliament. There they could well be questioned about their various positions by the parliament, somewhat similar to the appointment of members of the Supreme Court in the United States or with appointment procedures in other European countries. For more powers must also increase the transparency of the appointment process. Mr. Chairman. If all this is well arranged, as far as our group is concerned, we can abolish this First Chamber. Our great registry with excellent lawyers and state lawyers can then undoubtedly play an important role in carrying out the constitutional review, so that the existing knowledge that has been built up here in the First Chamber is put to best use. So much for the "Constitutional Review" section.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u68	I was aware of the position on the abolition of the First Chamber. I come back to the point before that, which is about hearing potential judges before the Supreme Court by the Chamber. That is already happening in private. You're telling me the public has to do it. Are you not afraid that this will bring much closer to a political appointment and that the political influence will be much closer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u69	Yes, but now the Constitution is interpreted by the Second and First Chambers, at least that's the theory. In practice, this can sometimes be noticed. You yourself investigated it during the supplement affair, for the purposes of the lessons to be learned from it. We believe that a constitutional court is a better solution, but it must be done openly. That will indeed be different than it is now. As far as the United States is concerned, I do not think we should allow it to happen, because it involves all kinds of private aspects. Of course, they are people who decide on important interpretations of the Constitution, so I do believe that a careful, transparent and public hearing should be organised there. This is also in order to increase the legitimacy of legal proceedings among the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u70	On what criteria should this be done? What makes a good supreme judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u71	Of course, the legal knowledge. There's no question about that. But if you transfer some of these powers to a constitutional court, it is inevitable that you want to know what political views or important views that judge has. I call abortion, which, of course, is a major recurring theme in the Supreme Court in America. That's why you're having more discussion about who the judges are going to be, because they have greater jurisdiction there. I imagine you would like to know what he or she thinks on a number of political issues. But you are free to ask the candidate in question. That is the whole idea of this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u72	Finally, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u73	Finally, I conclude that it is therefore a much more politically coloured Supreme Court than is currently the case with the Supreme Court. The way you stand in the abortion debate is an excellent political and not a legal discussion. That is a view that my group does not share. Mr Otten is, of course, free to stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u74	Moreover, we are in favour of wide-ranging legislation on abortion to avoid misunderstandings. We will also support the PvdA's initiative proposal. The alternative is to introduce that constitutional review with judges, no one knows who they are. It's either one or the other. You can say we're doing an anonymous judge and we can't know what he thinks about anything at all, but we're giving him the powers. I think that's a step in the dark. I'd rather know what kind of meat we have in the cockpit. I think it's in the interests of all parties. In the interests of the legitimacy of justice, too, the public must be able to know that. It is the last station for the interpretation of our Constitution. It is now done by the First and Second Chambers. I think that is even more political in practice, when I see how things are sometimes done here. Take the Temporary Law measures covid-19. We have said from day one that this was not legally a good law, but for political reasons it was adopted. The law was also contrary to the Constitution. At the time, the Minister of Health admitted that in the Wob documents, but he talked himself out of it. The First Chamber did agree to it anyway. Perhaps a constitutional court could have intervened much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you. I call Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr President, is the Schiphol approach still valid here? So step on the foot pedal and push a button? I don't come here much. Yes. Mr Otten takes our group a bit of interest in thinking about a step towards a constitutional court by the consequence he makes, namely that we need to hear judges here before they can be appointed. Does he really think that we in the Netherlands should take a step forward in terms of the appointment procedure for judges rather than what I would advocate, rather a step back so that we do not interfere too much so that they remain independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u77	From the background of the questioner, who obviously has a more administrative background, I can understand this somewhat regentous position, but of course the times have changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u78	What the hell is going on here? I would therefore suggest this for a self-reflection debate. How do we talk about this? Am I being addressed to the fact that I've been mayor for a lifetime and that if you're wearing a necklace, you're by definition a regent? Mr. Otten, watch your mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u79	At least not elected...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mr President, let Mr Otten just answer the serious question I am asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u81	I note that mayors in the Netherlands are not elected as one of the few countries in the world, but that aside. I think that times have changed and that there is much more need for transparency, I say to you. The Dutch government sometimes has a kind of paternalistic attitude: we will decide what is good for you and sign with the cross. Those times are over as far as our group is concerned. We are in favour of modernising the whole country. That starts with the political system. You can also think about whether provinces are of this time, but well, that's all going too far now. But this fits as far as we're concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr President, I leave it to you to guard the order here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u84	I don't hear a question, so I'll continue my argument. The next point is the democratic rule of law. An important gap in the Dutch rule of law, as we have seen, is to invest responsibility for ensuring the democratic rule of law. Our democratic rule of law is no longer as self-evident as it has been in the past. Our group has raised this on several occasions. Unfortunately, it appears that ensuring the democratic order of law in the current Dutch system is too often a matter for discussion. The Ministry of Justice and Security often refers to the Ministry of the Interior, and vice versa. But there is also a lack in the Netherlands of an authority such as the Bundesverfassungsschutz in Germany, which can act effectively and decisively if the democratic rule of law is compromised, for example by acting against radical political groups. The Verfassungsschutz can then act actively and also has a legal toolbox to do so. Mr. Chairman. Our group is also very concerned about the increase in openly anti-Semitic expressions in Dutch society. The Dutch rule of law is currently not sufficiently equipped to effectively combat this rapidly changing situation, which is now in progress. That's what worries us. We would therefore like to hear from the directors and also from the Minister for Justice and Security how they intend to deal with these worrying developments. Then I come to the next point, Mr President. This relates to the increasing threats and intimidations. Since the corona pandemic, something fundamental has changed in Dutch society. Not only on the labour market, as we can see on a daily basis, including at Schiphol Airport, but our social cohesion is also under great pressure. This was partly caused by two years of inimitable corona policy of the Rutte cabinet, which, as a matter of fact, split society into all kinds of camps. Whatever your opinion on corona is, the fact is that tensions in Dutch society have risen high and that this has unfortunately created a climate in which threats and intimidations are the order of the day. Intimidations by scientists, journalists, medics, but also politicians have taken a huge flight, reinforced by conspiracy thinkers and hitters. In 2022, many people are no longer able to express their opinions openly, for fear of being denounced by all kinds of anonymous Internet users and Twitter users. We now live in a post-truth society in which the truth and the facts no longer matter, but the one with the biggest mouth and the grimest story prevails, in public opinion and in the media. The facts have become secondary. This is beginning to pose a serious threat to freedom of expression in the Netherlands. What the cabinet is going to do about this is to ask the rulers. As far as we are concerned, priority should be given to tackling the possibility of anonymous response and anonymous troll forces on the Internet should be restricted. We have raised this issue on a number of occasions. This was also discussed extensively in the preparatory discussion of this debate with representatives from journalism and the media. Where is the legislation of the cabinet, our question? Then I come to my next point, Mr President. That's IT. Legislation alone is not enough. We are getting very alarming reports, particularly from the Public Prosecutor's Office, about the very poor and unsustainable state of ICT systems. Think of requests from prosecutors who disappear from the so-called P-disk and other ICT issues just before the session. But there are also major problems with the GPS system. I do not mean the handy satellite navigation that is currently on every iPhone and is present in the car by default, but the Integrated Criminal Procedure System. Pieces are missing from the assembly line and prosecutors sometimes have to ask judges during the hearing for access to files. This is unacceptable. Also, the Dutch Association for Justice, the NVvR, the association of judges and prosecutors, not to be confused with the Council for Justice, the Rvdr, has spoken extensively about this. Mr. Chairman. I will not go back to the failed KEI automation fiasco of more than EUR 200 million, because we have already dealt with this extensively in the past. But what are the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection going to do to finally resolve this? If this requires urgent legislation, make it, make sure you get the best ICT specialists to solve it as soon as possible and stop using the usual polder approach, which has proven not to work. The KEI fiasco has shown that. If there is a need for good people who are more expensive than they are used to paying by the government, then so be it. Solve it and make it a top priority! While organized crime is ripping around in formula 1-bolides, the Dutch state must try to pursue it in an old Saab from the nineties. That can't happen anymore in 2022. We would like to hear from the ministers how they are going to modernise this in the short term. You will notice that I am getting emotional about it, because this is essential for the functioning of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my next point, the Council of State. An important aspect of modernising our rule of law is the way in which our administrative justice is organised. Legal protection in administrative law is now not properly regulated. The Parliamentary Committee on Childcare Allowance concluded in the report Unfamiliar injustice that the administrative justice system has made a substantial contribution for many years to the maintenance of a non-mandatory implementation of the Supplements Act following the law. This committee also noted a lack of legal protection, in which the administration of justice neglected its important function of protecting individuals' rights. "The judicial function must be removed from the Council of State." Those are not my words, but those of former President of the Supreme Court Geert Corsens. But I totally agree with these words. Efforts to bring administrative appeals to the ordinary judiciary have so far failed. Also critical rulings by the European Court of Human Rights on this lack of justice have not yet led to reflection. When I raised this issue at the beginning of this month when I discussed the state of the rule of law with the Council of State, they reacted like a wasp. It is very unfortunate that the Council of State is apparently still in denial. The case law at the Council of State is a loom error, said a very prominent judge to me the other day. I'll leave it in the middle as you'll understand, but it's a looming mistake. I am not the first to point this out; it has been going on for some time now. The case-law of the Administrative Court of the Council of State can therefore be transferred to the existing courts and to the Supreme Court of Appeal in so far as administrative matters are concerned. We are considering a second-term motion on this, but we would like to hear the government's plans on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the final point: the rot at the heart of our rule of law: the national attorney. Since 1969, Pels Rijcken has continued to be the national attorney. This office has been in dispute for two years now because of a major fraud of at least 11 million euros over two decades by the top man of this country's lawyer. Mind you, the top man, the capo di tutti capi, who, when he was still alive, was talking about integrity, but meanwhile the millions of his clients, including government money, rushed away and darkened. But also an office where, according to various media revelations, a hideous culture reigns. Where discrimination and assessment on ethnic characteristics prevail. I will not repeat the terrible statements that go around Pels Rijcken here. Mr Nicolaï has already done so in the oral discussions we had recently with the Minister of Justice. I advise the rest of the rulers to take note of this. Mr. Chairman. Now I have also started my own working life as a lawyer, and I know a lot of people in law and law. Many lawyers and lawyers have approached me actively lately and fully agree with me that the government now needs to clean up and say goodbye to Pels Rijcken as a state attorney. Pels Rijcken is a disgrace to the entire legal profession. It is a great disgrace to the functioning of our rule of law that the government is trying to massage this rot at the heart of the rule of law with all kinds of committees and procedures. It is now high time to take action. As I said at the beginning of my speech, there is a danger of distrust in politics moving towards the rule of law. This development must now be brought to a halt. But whatever you notice when you put the functioning of the national attorney on the agenda, what we have done as a group, is that suddenly all kinds of influential networks behind the scenes are taking action to keep the lid firmly on this cesspool. We are also in close contact with Mr Omtzigt in the Lower House, who has also repeatedly called on the government to end the cooperation with this country's lawyer, Pels Rijcken, in a careful manner. This is essential for the start of maintaining and restoring confidence in politics and maintaining trust in the rule of law. Last week, a motion in which Mr Omtzigt called for an end to the cooperation with this country's attorney almost reached the House of Representatives, except for a few votes. This First Chamber has an excellent function as a watchdog for the functioning of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. As is well known, there has already been extensive written and oral consultations with the Minister of Justice and Security on this issue at our request. We saw the Minister's attitude there: yes, we're actually a little hostage to Pels Rijcken, because there's still a thousand things going on, so we can't get out of there. That's bullshit, of course. The State can easily begin to phase these things out, at least stop providing new things and start a careful phasing-out. Large companies and multinationals also exchange lawyers and accountants periodically. A periodic exchange of auditors is even mandatory for certain companies. That's what they're doing to prevent them from getting these long-term practices we're seeing in the state attorney's office. So it's not that complicated. That can be arranged perfectly. Mr. Chairman. Because we have been working on this subject for a long time and we have all discussed it extensively with the Minister of Justice, I shall table the next motion in my first term, in line with a number of previous speakers. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the interests of the rule of law, it is very important for the Dutch State to work with a national lawyer who is of undisputed conduct;]] [[Considering that the current state attorney has for some time been serious in opposition and thus undermines trust in the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to end its cooperation with the country's attorney, Pels Rijcken, taking into account the orderly conclusion of current cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u85	I doubt very much whether the purpose of this debate is to discuss in detail the individual relationship between the government and an advisor. That is my first point. My second comment concerns the following. I note a huge contradiction, a fundamental contradiction, between Mr Otten's objective of strengthening the rule of law and trust in the government, and the words he uses in the discussion about this office. He uses words like "the rot" and "a kind of cesspool." This was, of course, essentially about the notary. However, I do not want to discuss the matter in detail. I would like to ask Mr Otten the following. It's a matter between the government and an advisor, and you're discussing it in a special way. How can this contribute to strengthening trust in the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u86	You should start by acting instead of setting up more whistleblower schemes and committees. We've got another commission. It's all being put off with procedures, committees and I know what it's all about. That's the Dutch approach. There's a problem. We're gonna set up a committee and we're gonna come up with more procedures. That's what we see at Schiphol. I believe that Mr Backer has worked there too. I hear the Minister of Infrastructure say: we call every day; we have good procedures to keep the finger on the wrist. But at some point, as a government, you also have to draw a line in the sand. Mr. Backer is now trying to downplay what's happened. That is not a small thing. It was the top man who happened to be a notary too. This process has been going on for 20 years. When it came to light, the top man committed suicide. You've been able to read all that in the paper. Then we also have the cultural aspects. Mr Nicolaï discussed it extensively with the Minister in the oral consultation. In fact, I did not see you and your group there. You can still take note of this via the video report. Then you can see how it all went. I'd advise you to look back on that after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u87	I don't need that advice. It was a conscious decision not to be there. You mention a number of aspects of the matter, including its tragic aspects. It seems totally inappropriate to discuss this in this way. You take the word "carefulness" in the handling of the case, but you do not use it yourself. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you. I would like to speak in particular about the national attorney as an institution. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u89	Well, what the country's attorney's top man's been up to, I'd like to mention far from being careful. I can pretty easily bounce that ball back to Mr. Backer. It's not a small thing that's happened there. This country's attorney is supposed to run the Wob procedures for the government. How can you be credible when you're a state attorney and you've been through all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u90	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u91	I regret once again that I have interrupted Mr Otten on this point. I didn't say the country's attorney acted carefully. I ask you to act carefully in the discussion of a case in a debate on the rule of law in a broad sense. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u92	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u93	I choose my own words, I say to Mr Backer. I think it is essential for the maintenance of our rule of law that this firm should now be said goodbye. I haven't made a secret of that either. Mr Backer knows that, because I have said and said this before. Hence the motion. I believe they had 70 votes in the Lower House. Here the proportions are slightly different. I therefore call on all the parties who voted in the Lower House for this motion-Omtzigt... The wording of our motion is also based on that. I also discussed this with Mr Omtzigt. He also says it should work in the First Chamber. That is why I am trying to maintain the rule of law here, and I will carefully choose to keep my words, I say to Mr Backer. Apart from everything that's happened, after 50 or 55 years, I think it would be a good time to switch attorneys. I think that's very healthy. There are all kinds of other options. You can also hire an employed lawyer. You can also spread the work. But at least start tearing it down. Don't let the argument take you hostage: we've got so many cases going on, we can't leave. That is what I said in the oral consultation. What's the top man supposed to do? Does he have to kill someone? When will you be leaving? At some point, it's badass and you have to say, it's done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u94	I think your response to Mr Backer's interruption is sufficient. I would ask you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. I was pretty much at the end of my speech. As I said, I have put that into cubes for the cabinet. I often notice that people do like that. You can all find those cubes in my speech. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is not good with the state of our rule of law. This diagnosis has already been made by many speakers before me. Now this First Chamber is up to start the recovery process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you, Mr Nicolaï of the Party for Animals has the floor. I would point out to Members that the lunch break is scheduled at 12.30 p.m. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr President. My speech will also be a bit historical and philosophical. As a result, it is also one completed story in which different topics are interrelated. That is why I would ask my colleagues to put them at the end if there are any interruptions. At least that way I can finish my finished story. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the rule of law and therefore the state of law. Law and civilisation are inextricably linked. The historian Hans Goedkoop reminded us of this in his moving lecture during the commemoration on 4 May in De Nieuwe Kerk. He brought us back to Bergen-Belsen and to Abel Herzberg. This Jewish lawyer organized a court of law in that Nazi camp that bowed to evil done by the prisoners in the camp: stealing a loaf of bread, a fight. "In their lawlessness they are going to judge," Goedkoop told us. He quoted Abel Herzberg: "The first sentence of human civilization: the recognition that there is something that is allowed and something that is not allowed." Yeah, that's right. Human civilization presupposes an ethical consciousness. It's good to keep thinking about that, even here in our work as a senator. What we call the general awareness of the law, in which we consider the general principles of law, presupposes an ethical awareness in each of our communities. This brings us to the state of law and thus to the rule of law. Our sense of justice not only came into sight on 4 May, the day we thought about what a state of lawlessness would bring about. A few weeks earlier atrocities of Russian soldiers came into view. We heard shocking stories about an evil that we hadn't felt close in so long. In the report of 18 May last, the Human Rights Watch Human Rights Organisation concluded that Russia has systematically committed war crimes. On the same day, a first trial began in Kiev against a Russian soldier who shot an innocent civilian. That 21-year-old soldier was sentenced to life imprisonment a week ago. The first sentence of human civilization will always ring in the application of law. Shooting a civilian, no matter how young the perpetrator is, however brainwashed the commanders, how deluded by disinformation: a civilized man with an ethical consciousness does not escape to count his own act to evil. Mr. Chairman. Historian Hans Goedkoop told us something important on 4 May, and I quote him: "If man does not see his own evil, how do you hold on to what is allowed and not allowed?" That is indeed a fundamental task for the guardians of the rule of law: bring your own evil, even if it was in the past, into the picture and explaining, accountability in terms of law. A right consciousness evolves. After the first sentence of civilization, many other sentences will come. This leads to constantly new moral challenges and a growing awareness of good and evil. Such a task is that in the past we must consider action by the Dutch State which we reject today from the point of view of ethics and law, in terms of law, i.e. injustice. It is precisely with this recognition that we support our present awareness of good and evil and recognise the rule of law's foundations. That is why, in the previous debate on the rule of law, I also suggested that a law should be introduced in which the past of slavery should still be regarded as a crime against humanity. The setting-up of the working party on self-evaluation in connection with the premium case, a subject which is the subject of today's debate, also reflects the recognition of the moral duty to examine the extent to which earlier action had lost sight of the ethical compass. Mr. Chairman. A rule of law that develops as a state of law needs not only lawyers, but also the knowledge, skill and commitment of historians who expose evil. On 17 February of this year, the evil that we have done in Indonesia was prominently depicted. On that day, researchers from the NIOD and the other institutions involved presented the report Over the Border, a report on extreme violence in the Indonesian Independence War, from '45 to '49. That publication and the broadcast of the presentation of the report were a historic event, a step that says something about the development of our current Dutch rule of law. A few years earlier, on 1 October 2019, the judiciary also demonstrated the strength of our general awareness of the law. In the civil cases of the victims of the crimes of Captain Westerling's special forces, the State relied on the civil limitation period. The Hague Court found this unacceptable in law, but the court went even further. It also made a trip to the criminal statute of limitations. By law of 8 April 1971, which ruled out an action for limitation of crimes against humanity, fear was not made an explicit exception for the crimes committed by the Dutch military during the period '45-'50. The Court noted with interest that that decision had been based on political considerations, considerations which should no longer be accepted according to the state of the current general awareness of the law, as laid down in international agreements. Another expression of civilisation, courtesy of the judge, who here corrected an unethical political decision. This left the question open as to whether the rejection by the judiciary in 2012 of a request for criminal prosecution of the military would have been legally correct. That rejection was based on the law of 8 April 1971 which was contrary to the general principles of law and treaties. Mr. Chairman. Historians and lawyers therefore endorsed the responsibility of our current rule of law for the evil that has been committed in the past, as revealed in the Cross-border report. That was about evil that was going on about 70 years earlier, so quite recently. Mr. Chairman. Exactly 100 years ago, Hendrikus Colijn took over the leadership of the Anti-Revolutionary Party. Soon after, he became Minister of Finance and then led four Cabinets as Prime Minister. That was from 1933 to 1939. 40 years earlier, this politician had started a military career in Indonesia. He played an important role in the Aceh War and during the so-called Lombok expedition. He was later even rewarded with the Military Willems-Orde. It is bestowed on excellent deeds of courage, policy and loyalty. A young lieutenant participating in that Lombok expedition wrote a letter to his loved one. This was about the battle he fought as commanding officer on Lombok at that time with a rebellious population, men and women who resisted the Dutch army armed with spears and cheeks. Mr. Chairman. I quote from his letter. "I have seen one who with a child of about six months on the left arm and a long lance in the right hand came at us. A bullet from us killed mother and child. We were no longer allowed to give mercy. I had to put nine women and three children who asked for mercy on a pile and leave them to die like that. It was unpleasant work, but it had to be done. The soldiers rain on their bayonets with pleasure." The woman to whom he had sent his letter wrote in the margin: how terrible. "How terrible": it seems that women are needed to assess events such as these from a human point of view or position. Mr. Chairman. This lieutenant, who wrote his loved one about his crimes, later became Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Yes, President, Ministers, Secretary of State and fellow senators: the letter I read was from Hendrikus Colijn. This letter is in the archive of the Historical Documentation Centre for Dutch Protestantism. I have a scan of the passage in question with me here. Mr. Chairman. Just before the outbreak of the Second World War and the extermination of innocent people that we commemorated on 4 May, our rule of law was led by a Prime Minister who had nine Balinese women and three children slaughtered for mercy. What does this say about our rule of law? What does it say that the massacres and colonial submission of Indonesia in the last century were officially referred to as "ethical politics," as "the ethical direction in colonial politics"? Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is also about disinformation. Here we see a historical sample of that. The nothing-gentle with gruesome massacre subjects of a population was formulated as an ethical task. After all, it was about "civilizing" a population in a colony conquered by the Netherlands to raise it to a western civilization. The "how terrible" that Colijn's wife uttered when she read his letter has more to do with upliftment. That awareness of good and evil was already there and could be pronounced, but as long as it was only noted in the margin and disinformation and propaganda about government massacres were presented as "ethical necessity," civilization disappeared from the picture. Mr. Chairman. Civilisation and our concern for the rule of law require that we face the evil that Colijn participated in, even though it was more than a century ago, historical investigations and judgment in terms of law. If "the first sentence of human civilisation" is the basis for condemning crimes against humanity, as committed by the young Russian soldier, should this not apply to a condemnation of crimes committed under the guise of "ethical politics" more than a century ago in Aceh and Lombok, also led by someone who was previously honored with the Military Willems-Orde and became the Prime Minister of our country? Mr. Chairman. Half a century after Colijn's crimes, the Dutch rule of law re-established its home in Indonesia. Now it was not about colonial conquest, but about a spasmodic struggle for the preservation of the colony and the ruthless suppression of a struggle for freedom. It has taken too long for such a large group of historians, at the request of the government, to be able to deal so thoroughly with the systematic extreme violence in Indonesia. What came up with the report on crossing the border recently will have made a deep impression on all of us here. Mr. Chairman. Just before the presentation of the study of NIOD and the other institutes, a book by the lawyer Maurice Swirc was published entitled "The Indian cover-up" and entitled "Why Dutch war crimes in Indonesia have never been prosecuted." The title 'The East Indian cover-up' would have been even more appropriate, because if one thing became clear from the contents of that book, it would be that the Dutch Government knew that Westernerling, I quote from the book 'had been guilty of unacceptable action'. The latter is a literal quote by Prime Minister Drees from the Council of Ministers of 29 February 1949. In the same year 1949 a committee of inquiry was formed to investigate the crimes of the Dutch military. This led to a report by the two lawyers Van Rij and Stam that came on the table in 1954 with the Minister of Justice, Minister Donker. Now there was clearly evidence of crimes against humanity, and not just that. My teacher, Professor Guus Belinfante, who at that time was a counsellor at Justice, was asked to examine the report "on his legal merits with a view to possible criminal proceedings against the persons concerned." Belinfante's conclusions were explosive. I quote: 'The actions of Westerling and his followers, however well covered by authoritative authorities, lacked any legal basis'. Not only could persecution be brought against Westerling, but also against his superiors and against soldiers and rulers who were once again above them. Belinfante spoke of a "snowball" which then continues to roll and warned that "it will not be possible to escape the role played by the civil authorities." Mr. Chairman. In today's debate on the rule of law, we are also talking about open government. The reports of Van Rij and Stam and the findings of Council Advisor Belinfante and Council Advisor Kazemier, who shared his views, were withheld from the Chamber and filed as "very secret." The Council of Ministers chose the cover-up and voted in a majority against prosecution. What the government knew was silenced. Shouldn't the lid be completely open, as it suits a civilized rule of law? Aren't there still pieces of secret or limited access? Mr. Chairman. Back to Hans Goedkoop: "If man does not see his own evil, how do you hold on to what may and may not?" For this debate on the rule of law, I interpret this creed in this way. It is precisely in order to anchor our ethical principles and the general awareness of the law that it is necessary for legal experts to determine whether the military action of the Netherlands in Indonesia during the period covered by the report on the border was punishable. The same applies to the extent to which officials of the Dutch State have contributed to this. The historians of NIOD deliberately chose not to give a legal assessment. So there's an invitation for the lawyers. We must take them up as guardians of the rule of law. What about the so-called India-refusals, citizens who were excluded from the duty of attendance or soldiers who deserted? Were they not actually on the right side of history after the report on the border? Mr. Chairman. In the 4 May speech by Hans Goedkoop, I also feel that the question is whether we in this so-called gifted country still have the pointy compass that he talked about. We can talk about the premium affair, about losing sight of the human dimension, about an even wider "how terrible" than that of Colijn's wife. At the heart of all this is the question: has our rule of law not lost sight of man himself? Didn't the money replace our ethical compass? Do we still think only in terms of having instead of being? Has ethics disappeared in politics? Hans Goedkoop also encounters such questions at the end of his speech. In the context of sanctions against Russia, everyone with a reasonable compass for good and evil raised the question of how ethical it is that the Netherlands acts as a tax haven and facilitates financial structures for unsavory figures from equally unsavory regimes. In our so-called gift country, we were seeking, as Goedkoop puts it in relation to Russian kleptocrates, to "create a pleasant location climate for the money of that aggressor, which we already knew at that time was the thief's money." Mr. Chairman. There is a ghost throughout Europe, especially through our country: a ghost who speaks right which is crooked. Not most of the votes apply, but most of the votes apply. The rich enrich themselves, while poverty increases dramatically. Isn't it time for an ethical reveil? For some, this term has a bad smell, which is associated for them with dated Christian-democratic politics, but what is against bringing civilization closer again, rediscovering our ethical compass, throwing away the blind power of money and propaganda about that gifted country and returning to the most basic ethical principles in which our right is rooted? At the expert meeting, everyone agreed that the implementation of law in a rule of law should lead to the allocation of their own. Indeed, a fundamental principle of law. This requires a return to one's own ethical compass for anyone who participates in the rule of law. Our party also involves the position of animals in "everyone's." No one's gonna be surprised. The VOC mentality from imperialism has moved from humanity to animal kingdom. What does an ethical reveil do with the ambition of our gift country to be the biggest butcher and milkman in the world, for which 600 million animals are slaughtered every year in our country after a short and miserable life without any moral compass? Speaking of disinformation, where the current legislation talks about veterinary interventions, it appears that it is not about healing, but about mutilating animals. The articles of law are about powers to cut down tails, removing horns, filing of fangs and so on; everything to facilitate the keeping of animals in stables. As the concept of "ethical colonial politics" obscured the criminal nature of massacres among the Indonesian population, the mutilation of animals in the business-economic interest is now proposed as medicine. How awful! The "how terrible" must reconnect with our sense of justice. The task will be to identify where moral obligations should be included in the field of legal obligations. That is a difficult task when we see what is happening in the world at the moment. Mr. Chairman. The number of people affected by food shortages has increased in two years from 136 million to 276 million. The rise in food prices will benefit billionaires in the food and energy sectors. Their assets increase every day by 600 million dollars. During the pandemic 62 new billionaires joined the food sector, while 263 million people fell into poverty. And I am not even talking about the millions of climate refugees and victims of our free trade agreements, which put less developed economies at an even greater disadvantage. Mr. Chairman. In crimes against humanity, we think of shooting soldiers. But anyone who thinks in terms of an ethical reveil sees that an ethical duty to give each one their own must extend, including to those millions of victims of poverty and water and food shortages. Doing nothing feels ethically criminal. Those who turn their eyes away from obvious injustice make themselves morally guilty of such injustice. In the context of the state of law and the rule of law, the question then arises as to whether doing nothing can also be regarded as "criminal" in terms of law. That is an important question for those who uphold the rule of law, that is to say for the ministers, the rulers, and for us as senators. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a few clear questions. Does the Minister agree with me that, assuming that the facts correspond to what Hendrikus Colijn writes to his wife about his struggle at Lombok, it must be established that a future Prime Minister of the Netherlands has committed a crime against humanity? Is the government prepared to withdraw the granted Willemsorder? Are all government records relating to the Dutch acts of war in Indonesia in the period covered by the report Over de Beroep now publicly accessible? If not, is the government prepared to achieve that accessibility? Is the Minister prepared to set up a committee of authoritative lawyers to assess, on the basis of the facts available to date, whether Captain Westerling, his subordinates and his superiors were guilty of crimes during military action? Is the Minister prepared to take steps to grant legal reparations to the conscript military who were convicted of refusing service or desertion committed between 15 August 1945 and 31 December 1949? Does not the behavior of these Indians and deserters justify praise rather than punishment, because they were on the right side of history? Following a criminal complaint lodged on 12 January 2012 by Pondaag concerning crimes committed by Dutch military forces, it was then decided not to prosecute with an appeal for limitation. Does the Minister agree with me that a criminal limitation period has been wrongly invoked? Does the Minister agree with me that by keeping the report of Van Rij and Stam secret and failing to inform the Chamber of the content of Belinfante's and Kazemier's opinions on the criminality of Westerling's actions, the government has acted unlawfully against those who have committed such acts and has also violated the constitutional obligation to inform Parliament? Finally. Can the Minister reflect on the extent to which facilitating the use of Dutch legislation by a group internationally referred to as kleptocrates contributes to the undermining of the legal order? If the Minister shares that view, is the Minister prepared to make a plan of action to criminalise the opening of letterbox companies that facilitate this? All the way to the end. Can the Minister reflect on whether a duty to take measures to counter the food crisis and to tackle super rich people, not only as a moral but also as a legal obligation, should be considered? If that is the case, can the Minister reflect on the time and the way in which that could take shape? Mr. Chairman. I look forward with interest to the answers of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you. This was Mr Nicolaï's contribution. Before giving the floor to Mr Talsma, I shall suspend the sitting for a short time at the request of some of the Members present in connection with the washing of hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u99	I call Mr Talsma of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mr Hiddema that I wish you all the good things and also a great deal of joy in holding your maiden speech. We used to cross swords in the courtroom in the past. Looks like we get to do the same thing in this house. Mr. Chairman. Back to the main line of the debate. A debate like this, under the broad title of the rule of law, invites, even more than usual, this Chamber to reflect, reflect and reflect. Today we reap the fruits of that together. We are not doing this value-free and not in isolation, but from our different views on politics and society, in the midst of a topicality in which the rule of law is not quiet or self-evident in our country either. For example, the fight against organized crime is always a dilemma and the legal protection of citizens is under pressure more often than we like. We are also conducting this debate on the rule of law against the background of an increased atmosphere of mistrust. The corona pandemic, the handling of the consequences of the gas extraction in Groningen and the surcharge affair are just a few examples that have loosened much in this respect. This mistrust is not only rooting and usurping between citizens and government, but is also increasingly emerging in the state-of-the-art movement between the cabinet and parliament. My personal reflections for this debate began with a text that I read a few months ago on the wall of the centuries-old Alt-Neu-synagogue in Prague. It is a sentence from the Talmud, attributed to rabbi Jose ben Halafta. The text reads: "Bigger than the one who utters the blessing is the one who responds with "amen." Much more and deeper than sounded in our Dutch verb "beamen," it is in saying that "amen" to confirm, to underline, to agree that it is so and to convert the word into action. The great of the amenzegger is not in the person, but in the responsibility that this person takes. Mr. Chairman. That text touched me, because it appeals to me on my responsibility as a co-legislator, just like all of you, to say 'amen' or 'amen' on legislative proposals and to ensure that words are translated into deeds, into the blessing of our country. That text made me realize once again how much responsibility this is and how much the consequences will be if we fail to do so. Our rule of law is closely linked to what Jan Terlouw called "the confidence democracy." Where there is no basis of trust, the rule of law cannot thrive. Against the background of the topicality I have just outlined, my group does not primarily want to look outwards in this debate and reflect on the contribution of others to the rule of law, but this time, first and foremost, to start with ourselves. I would almost say it in the words of Belinfante: instead of axe day. This from the realization that, as Louis Asscher put it in a recent interview with Trouw so beautifully, the rule of law is fragile and that you have to take responsibility for it yourself. A starting point that should not be missed is the report of the working party on self-evaluation, of our Chamber, following the supplementing affair. And yes, I realize that at some point there will be a plenary discussion of that report, but a look in the mirror of our own constitutional responsibility is, in my group's view, so urgent and so appropriate to the nature of this debate that I am already highlighting some elements. The first element is that concerns about feasibility were given little attention by the Chamber. Questions about that weren't picked up by the Minister. The Chamber accepted that. My group's reflection is that the feasibility of legislation and planned policies deserves even more attention in the preparation process, that we should ask the cabinet more closely and in greater detail and that we should ensure that these questions are answered, even if they have been asked by someone else. I ask the cabinet whether it is also prepared to pay more attention to the question of feasibility, especially if the consultation responses on this point are not always very enthusiastic. I also ask the cabinet not to ask questions about this. I would almost say never to leave it unanswered. Second element. Despite concerns about legal inequality and poignant situations, the Court did not ask for an evaluation and the political support for a particular legislative proposal was so great that it was even adopted without a vote. My group's reflection is that an evaluation should not be a blood test or a sweetener, but an instrument to be taken seriously by the Chamber and the Cabinet, the results of which can then also claim our time and attention. Let me be honest: that is quite a struggle, because when it comes to time and attention, we need to make sharp choices now. I ask the cabinet to look into the plans for an introduction test in this light. Is it possible to set up this test in such a way that the results can be adjusted quickly and adequately? And is the Cabinet prepared to agree to make amendments faster if such a test or an evaluation so requires? A third element I would like to highlight: many far-reaching legislative proposals need to be dealt with under considerable pressure of time and in the form of a single package. It leads to a more global treatment and a feeling of swallowing or stitching. My group's reflection is that as First Chamber, part-time politicians with one day of part-session in the week but with a so-called full-time responsibility, we may well be stricter on what we accept when it comes to deadlines, quantities and packages. I also ask the cabinet to reflect on this finding and to indicate how situations like this can be avoided. Does the amount of temporary legislation perhaps play a role in this? And what about, for example, the announced revision of the budgetary cycle, which should also be more airy when it comes to packages and swallowing or choking? A fourth element which I would like to highlight: the Court was reassured by commitments which meant that implementation would not cause problems or that only fraudsters would be caught. From a more recent date, I remember the reassuring texts concerning the power of designation in the reception of refugees, which turned out not to exist afterwards. My group's reflection is that, since our 'amen' on a legislative proposal is the last and final step towards the Official Journal, at that stage reassuring generalities are no longer sufficient. Another question is the motto. The sharpness must not suffer from courtesy. I know very well in what gremium I say: the sharpness should not suffer from courtesy. I ask the cabinet to be specific and accountable in commitments. As far as I am concerned, the last element that I am highlighting for the moment is one of the most painful sentences in the report. I find it painful to read every time, and especially to read it out loud for you. I quote: 'Despite the many concerns expressed by various groups, the Chamber still accepts the proposal.' In all its simplicity a very painful observation. The reflection of my group is that, despite the political primacy of the House of Representatives, despite the political desirability of certain legislative proposals and despite all good intentions, serious concerns about essential parts of a legislative proposal should rather lead to consideration of a fit in place if those concerns cannot be adequately met. I ask the cabinet to address such serious concerns about essential elements at the final stage of the legislative process here in this House in such a way that such a pass in place in the form of a counter-vote is ultimately not necessary. Is the cabinet prepared to work on the recommendation to periodically review the state of legislation before? Mr. Chairman. Another source of self-reflection is what we were asked to receive from experts in the preparatory meetings for this debate on the state of the rule of law. These are opinions that my group would like to take on board and which we would also like to underline by mentioning some of them out loud here and now. The first opinion was discussed earlier: be economical with legislation. In my view, the chairman of the College of PGs said after it: and be economical on legislation. In any case, we would like to take that to heart. Pay attention to the feasibility, already in the design phase of legislation. Use the recommendations to promote legislative quality, as provided by the Council of State. Contribute to respect and balance between state powers. Customization doesn't have to be the rule, but the human size does. Follow up on signals issued from practice to the legislator, such as in the annual reports of the Supreme Court, the Council of State, the National Ombudsman, the Court of Justice, the Public Prosecutor, the lawyer and others. And not in the least, invest structurally and substantially in justice and legal protection. Of course, it is too far-reaching to go into all this more deeply now. On behalf of my group, however, I would like to ask the cabinet whether, like us, it wants to make progress in this direction. In particular, I would like to know from the Cabinet how the aforementioned recommendations to promote the quality of legislation from the Council of State are implemented in practice. As far as the practical signals are concerned about headache and abdominal pain dossiers, implementation problems and unfair effects are concerned, I would like to ask the Cabinet to give us an undertaking to combine these signals annually and to respond to them in a letter to both Chambers, so that the discussion on possible legislative changes can start quickly. Of course, I am prepared to table a motion on this, but having listened to Mr Backer's speech, I await with great interest the reaction of the cabinet to this point. Mr. Chairman. Incited to self-reflection by centuries-old wise words of a rabbi, assisted by self-evaluation and the encouragement of experts, I conclude with once again wise words, this time by the German theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer. He was killed by the Nazis in a society in which the rule of law seemed to have forever mined. In his well-known work, Bonhoeffer opposed the state of power and the rule of law, and passionately pleaded for the latter, for the rule of law. Essentially, for him there was that carriers of power and authority, so we too, as we are here together, have the task of being servants and seeking what is good. Or as we in the Christian Union say: seek peace, do justice. Let us be by this route a Chamber that stands for the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u101	Thank you. Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you for your kind speech. Now, in Nazi Germany, we have seen that the rule of law did not bring justice. It doesn't automatically follow one another. You can take care of horrible things in a fantastic legal-legged way. My question to Mr Talsma actually follows a little from what Mr Nicolaï said. Then how do you bring that ethics into the rule of law? What standards do you take outside the legal norm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u103	I thank Mr Recourt for this question, which in itself gives rise to a whole new debate, but we do not have time for that today, given the agenda. In essence, of course, it comes down to what I mentioned before, namely our own responsibility. The most essential element, and perhaps the most important, is the difference between the rule of law as prevailing in the views of the national socialists in the 1930s and 1940s, and the rule of law as we know it, I think, is the functioning of parliamentary democracy, the functioning of the executive and also the functioning of the judiciary. The Nazis ruled by decree, in which parliamentary democracy was completely out of operation and judges were appointed politically and had to do their work in the political direction, and the executive was also completely aligned. I think it's in there. I would like to discuss this further with Mr Recourt, but that is what we are concerned about. It is also the main reason for me to look first and foremost in the mirror today instead of reflecting on someone else's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-3.u105	I shall now suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. On the resumption of the debate on the state of the rule of law, the hammer pieces and the votes will be on the table, and the first deadline for the debate on the state of the rule of law will be resumed.
