ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Education and Vocational Training Act to improve the legal protection of MBO students. A very warm welcome to our new Minister for Education, Culture and Science. Excuse me. The "pros" and the "vans" will be changed a number of times. Eventually, you're in charge of the Ministry, which expresses the "van." Welcome for the first time in this Chamber. Welcome to my colleagues, too. We are a little behind schedule, which leads me to ask you to keep the interruptions short and concise. I would suggest doing two or three interruptions in two, so that we can do this a little bit short and concisely. Otherwise it will be difficult in the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	The first speaker to come forward is Mr El Yassini of the VVD. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I would like to welcome our new Minister for Education, Culture and Science. Welcome to The Hague, welcome to the House of Representatives and welcome to politics! I'm glad a new cabinet is getting started. We have a lot of challenges. We really need to overcome them, and that requires a strong and effective government. Many people in the Netherlands may know the new minister of De Wereld Rotert Door, where he gave DWDD University lectures on theoretical physics. He has also had various roles in education and science, both nationally and internationally. So the expectations are high and the Minister can get to work right away. I trust he'll live up to expectations. The Minister is responsible not only for the portfolios of higher education, science policy, teacher policy, DUO and the Inspectorate of Education, but also for the MBO. Congratulations, because that is a great education sector. The MBO is the backbone of Dutch society. It keeps everything going. And it's going well in this level of education. Of course, the MBO knows its challenges, but it's going well. We have great, young, talented students who are not only going to keep this country running, but are going to take it to bigger heights. We have good and passionate teachers and employees who roll up sleeves, who are committed to the future of this country and of young people and who offer young people the opportunity to get the best out of themselves. Finally, administrators and business work passionately to facilitate students, students, teachers and employees, to take care of them and to connect them to the labour market. They are actually trying to make these groups, in particular, successful. Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, MBO and MBO in the Netherlands are the backbone of this country. We can't live without them. I would like to go into more detail about this, because if MBOs were to put the work down tomorrow, the Netherlands would immediately stop working. Then there are no drivers who transport food to shops and supermarkets. In fact, we don't have open shops and supermarkets, because they lack human beings. We therefore have no caregivers and nurses who provide care, no police, no hairdressers, no service station staff, no production, no car mechanics, no service technicians, no cooks and no service staff; I can go on like this for a long time. Mbos are vital to our country, just to keep the Netherlands going. In order to solve today's problems, you need tomorrow's MBOs, for example in the field of climate transition challenges, housing shortage with housing, care, transport, catering, innovation and technology, the fourth industrial revolution and the associated digitalisation of the 21st century. All the ambitions and solutions that the Netherlands and this cabinet have, fall or stand with the presence of MBOs in this country. Because this sector is doing well despite the challenges of this education layer, it can snow alongside the other portfolios that the minister has. It's possible. The priorities then shift to portfolios that require immediate attention and focus at the expense of the MBO. I would like to stress to the Minister that this sector should be given the appreciation and attention he deserves. I will keep the Minister sharp in the field of MBO over the coming years, working together with the Minister and the rest of the Chamber is the norm. I expect the Minister's cooperation to go both ways. I'll give the Minister some tips. Be open. Be uninhibited, fearless and above all, as in science, unbiased. I would like to say to the Minister: include the Chamber in your mission and your execution. Inform us in time and fully and see the Chamber as your ally to achieve better education and greater opportunities for our children, our young people and our adults in this country. In any case, I wish the Minister a great deal of strength, wisdom, success and courage. And now my contribution, Mr. Chairman. I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	You've also signed up for ten minutes, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yeah, I've got plenty of time, so it's gonna be okay. Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants everyone to be able to make a success of their lives. Good education is crucial, as a starting point and springboard. We want students' skills and skills to flourish, so that they will have a good perspective, both in the labour market and in our society. Of course, this can only happen if students receive and are supported. Unfortunately, students miss out too often, especially when it comes to the use of the MBO schools, good guidance. They're walking with their heads against the wall. If students drop out without a diploma, the early school leavers, they will become more dependent and remain dependent on the government. The VVD wants good MBO education for students, parents, the labour market and for society as a whole. That's what we do it for. Strengthening the legal status and improving the legal protection of MBO students are a no-brainer for the VVD. That is why we are so incredibly pleased with the bill that is now in the Chamber, which allows us to take the next steps. The aim is for students to receive a good education and support, which prepares them for society, the labour market and the future. In doing so, the means must be subordinate to the purpose. With the entry into force of the Education and Vocational Education Act in 1996, the Education Agreement was introduced into the MBO. Appointments between students and institutions would be put on paper, with a signature from the student and the institution under the agreement that they would both commit to the agreements made. It sounds good: tailor-made work for the student regarding guidance and possibly additional support and clarity about the rights and duties of both the student and the MBO institution. The education agreement should ensure a good legal position. But 25 years later, unfortunately, there is little left of the legal protection of students. It has become a bureaucratic document, spit out by the school in a model agreement. In practice, there is no discussion with the student about the contract that is entered into, let alone that the contract can be modified. The document is necessary for financing, and so it is dealt with in practice, similar to the terms and conditions of many tech companies. Digging at the booth. The VVD prefers to see that the rules and general agreements are also laid down, inter alia, in an education and examination scheme of the programme and in the learning path that the student will follow. This makes room for students who may want to make additional and specific agreements with an institution in a separate agreement. The change of law obliges schools to make agreements on guidance and support with students with disabilities or chronic illness. This is a development that the VVD has been asking for for years and is really hard on, because we too want students with disabilities or chronic illness to be able to get the best out of themselves. Education is the springboard for that. We do wonder why it was only chosen to do this with students with disabilities or chronic illness. Although this is very good, we welcome this and continue to work for it..... we would also like to draw attention to excellent students. I miss it in this law amendment. Think of excellent students who, for example, want to speed up their mbo. They can count on guidance and support, can't they? For a student who wants to do a four-year course in three years, or who wants to do a three-year course in two years, there must also be room to excel, to deepen and broaden and to become a top professional on the labour market? The question to the Minister is what the balance has been in deciding not to broaden the possibility for written agreements between student and institution and to leave it alone with students with disabilities and students with chronic illness. I repeat, once again, that I think that is very good and that we should continue to do so, but I would like to see it a little wider. I also have the following question. I see in the explanatory statement that students with disabilities and students with chronic illness can enforce agreements if it turns out that agreements are not being complied with. Where can we do that? Because that's what I'm wondering. At the time when private agreements have been made and are not fulfilled by a school, you must have somewhere to do so. I see that now in the explanatory statement only the option of visiting the administrative court is given, when we have actually seen in this legislative amendment that you now have to go to the administrative court under that education agreement, and we want to change that by anchoring it in the law. So, for example, we do it for students in general, but students with chronic illness or disability still have to use that option of that administrative judge. Can the Minister explain why this was chosen? Registry rights are also an important argument for doing so in this way. Why isn't that a focus on students with disabilities or chronic illness? There is another question I have for the Minister. Decisions of the competent authority in which students have a restrictive feeling can only be addressed at the College of Human Rights. So at the moment when a decision is made by the board and a student has the feeling of being damaged because of his limitation, they can only go there. Why there, since the College of Human Rights has no perseverance and no enforceability? I'm curious about that. Finally, Mr President, in conclusion. To ensure that students are better informed about their existing and new rights and obligations, this bill requires institutions to include these rights and obligations in the student statutes. That is a really good development, but I wonder what the Minister is going to do to force school boards to make this student statute available in understandable language. It does not seem logical to me that only a master of law could read this student statute. It is precisely the intention that our top MBOs should also know what their rights and obligations are and ultimately give themselves legal protection and legal status. I know that DENK wants to come up with an amendment on this subject. I am very curious about the Minister's answers, and on that basis I will decide how to deal with that amendment. I would like to thank the Minister, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I wish him good luck, a great deal of wisdom and a great deal of courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Baarle, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mr El Yassini has just rightly spent a great deal of time welcoming this minister. That saves me a lot of time, because then I can go along with what Mr El Yassini said. They were justified. It remains for me to say that the DENK Group warmly welcomes this minister in the Hague and wishes him good luck and wisdom, and that we hope for constructive cooperation. After all, we are talking today about the MBO and Mr El Yassini also spoke fine words about it; I am very much in favour of the VVD today, so it should not get any crazier in that respect. Because, indeed, the MBO is the backbone of our labour market and our society. Studies often show that DENK has the youngest supporters of all political parties. So it seems obvious to me that DENK has a great passion for the MBO and for the young people in the MBO. It is extremely important for us that all these young people should be able to develop. This bill also affects another key mission of DENK, namely the empowerment of our young people, so that young people know what their rights are and what their duties are. And that's what today is about. Which brings me to the bill. One reason for this is that a quarter of MBO students indicate that they are poorly informed about their rights and obligations and that almost one third indicate that they are dissatisfied with the way their institution handles complaints. When a student has a problem with his school, it is too often unclear to him or her about the possibilities. When we speak from the experience of a 16-year-old MBO student, it comes down to: I have a problem with my school but I don't know what to do. DENK is therefore concerned about the legal position of our young people. Students, our young people should be carefree and able to follow their education without fear, should be able to develop themselves and know what their rights are if they have a problem or a complaint about an institution. It is therefore a good thing that motions have been tabled in the past on this subject, that an investigation has been carried out and that this legislative proposal is taking steps in the right direction to improve the legal position of our young people on the MBO. The transition from the civil procedure to the administrative procedure before the Council of State makes litigation more accessible and also more affordable. The establishment of an accessible facility ensures that students have a place for their questions and complaints. The inclusion of rights and obligations in the law provides clarity, so that everyone knows what is going on. It is also a good thing that a financial arrangement should be introduced into the law for students taking up administrative positions. It can never be the main objective, but that it leads to a reduction of EUR 3 million in administrative burdens is an additional benefit of this law. But that is never the main objective, it is about the importance of our young people. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions remain to be asked by the DENK Group on a number of issues. I'll start with the student status. For DENK, it is extremely important that this student status is made understandable and accessible to all students. It is a good thing that we have a student statute that states what everyone is ready for in terms of rights and duties, but it should not be the case that only a skilled lawyer or people who have been a hobby in the law books have been able to understand this. It is a replacement of an education agreement. I have included some of those educational agreements to see how things have gone in the past and it is almost impossible to get through them. So it is really a challenge to draw up these things as easily and as easily as possible for our young people. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this point to give educational institutions, the competent authority, an effort to make this student status comprehensible and accessible. The first version of this amendment also contained the words "for everyone." We've been thinking about that. We have doubts as to exactly what the legal implications of this are. So we have an amended amendment that we will come up with, in which we are talking about the accessibility and comprehensibility as such of that student status. We look forward to the Minister's response to this amendment. We see it as a safe step to incorporate this into the law. Mr. Chairman. The following point also seems important to us: that we should give an effort to the competent authority of an educational institution to promote the knowledge of the student status. If we see from research that a large proportion of MBO students do not know what their rights and duties are, it is not enough to say: here is the student status. Then we must also give the task to educational institutions to bring it to students and to inform students in order to ensure that we empower young people. We have tabled an amendment on this point too, and we look forward to the Minister's response. My next question, Madam President. The student council had a right of assent to the education agreement. In the student statute, the student council has no right of assent. I would like to ask the Minister what is the reason for this and whether it would not be good to give the student council or the student association another form of participation in the development of that student statute. I'd like a comment on that. How is he going to ensure our young people's participation in this? Mr President, then the accessible facility. It is good that an accessible facility is being set up where students can easily reach out with complaints and questions, but we have two questions for the Minister. Firstly, how is it ensured that institutions undertake the task of informing students in an understandable manner about the existence of this accessible facility? Just as it is not enough for the student status to say that there is a student status, institutions really have to take on the task of pointing this out to students. How's the secretary gonna guard that? Secondly, how is it ensured that this accessible facility is actually accessible in practice? In the explanatory memorandum we read that there is also the possibility of setting up that accessible facility digitally. How do we prevent this accessible facility from being tucked away on a back page on a school website and therefore not accessible at all in practice? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the implementation of the law. There were a number of concerns of people who responded, including in the internet consultation. I would like to ask the Minister how he is going to manage the implementation of this law. Two: how does the Minister think that MBO institutions can handle the implementation of this law, also in view of the fact that we are coming out of a corona crisis? Mbo settings are already having a hard time. Can the Minister take this care away? (NL) Mr President, a final point on the concerns of the Interurban Student Consultation and the National Student Law Office about the transition from the CBHO to the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State. Although we think this is a good step, because it ensures accessibility and lower litigation costs, these organisations have taken care of this. They indicate that they have not been sufficiently involved in the legislative proposal at all. My question to the Minister is whether that is true and, if so, why that is the case. Can the Minister indicate how he will be more involved in legislative changes of this kind in the future? Mr. Chairman. As an objection, these organisations indicate that not all the knowledge and skills currently invested in the CBHO will be retained in this transition. What is the Minister's response to this concern? The final point. How is the government going to ensure that this is another concern of these organisations.... that the lead times are not going to get out of hand? Both the Council of State and these organisations make a suggestion to the government: codify the lead times, lay down in the law what these lead times must be, so that it does not lead to them becoming too long. I would like to know from the Minister why we do not lay that down in the law and whether that will not be a good step. Thank you, Mr President. That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you to Mr Van Baarle. Mrs. Hagen, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, of course, I shall also begin by welcoming our new Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I wish him every success in the coming years in the most important ministry that the Netherlands is rich. It's not just a special day for Minister Dijkgraaf. The main reason for me to become politically active is my great heart for education. It's the first time I've been in this room as an educational spokesperson. Mr. Chairman. Eleven years ago, I started for fourth grade. Being a teacher is the most beautiful thing there is. Giving confidence, learning skills that children can build on their lives. The happiness in the eyes of a child when after a week she toiled that difficult sum herself, or he who doesn't touch a book and much rather walked his boots through the polder but after giving the right book secretly swallowed up during the lesson under the table books. I strongly believe that the place of your cradle should not determine where you end life, that life offers you plenty of opportunities and that you are able to deal with it. That always starts with the opportunities you get in and through education. But working as a teacher also made me realize that the biggest challenges, such as high workload, large classes or administrative burden, for the most beautiful profession and the best opportunities for children are not to be solved within my classroom but in politics, and in our society. As a teacher of the 8th grade I met screaming parents for me with the advice of a vmbo-base/frame, for a child who loved to learn by pulling up his sleeves. I understand these parents... apart from the manners. They didn't yell at me. It is the appreciation that this group receives from us as a society; that was why these parents raised their voices. Because although both academic education and practical education both know their role in our society, the status and appreciation are equal to the designation of primary and higher education. That is completely unjustified. Because for every crucial transition, from energy to the circular economy, we need secondary vocational education, this profession and specialist specialists. Moreover, if we missed a professional group this corona crisis or appreciated it extra, then it is the people from care to catering, from hairdressers to childcare. Therefore, it is important that the MBO is given the equivalent status it deserves. I am therefore extremely motivated to use myself as a Member of Parliament for the MBO. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has fantastic vocational education that we can be very proud of. The law before us today is therefore a very good law. It strengthens the position of students on the MBO, so that MBO students now have the same legal status and protection as all students. The information position of students is strengthened. There will be a financial fee for students with an administrative function and the suspension rights will allow students to be suspended for a maximum of two weeks. This way we protect our students, we do not lose sight of them and we offer them the opportunity to recover and develop as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. I pay special attention to a very important piece of the law. If this law is adopted, institutions will agree on support for students with disabilities or chronic illness. This creates equality of opportunity. Every student gets appropriate support, because every student is entitled to the best opportunities for a bright future. Mr. Chairman. This law therefore contains very important steps. I also have a number of questions so that we can put the points on the i. D66 fully agrees with the Minister that the written education agreement is not an appropriate instrument for informing students about their rights and obligations. This legislative proposal first of all reduces the administrative burden on the educational institution, but D66 is curious about the implementation of these objection procedures within the MBO. The obviousities of a legal approach or linguistic exercise in higher education differ substantially with the occupational impact of the MBO. Our group is therefore curious to see how the Minister looks at the JOB's proposal for an Ombudsman, an impartial person who is accessible and findable to students; a low-threshold intermediate step, a person who can show the students how to proceed and take the legal steps at hand. Has the Minister taken note of the JOB's proposal? How does he look at such an ombudsman? Mr. Chairman. Then the CBHO, the College of Appeal for Higher Education. I was just talking about making the legal protection of students as accessible as possible. Legal protection must be accessible, accessible and competent. Only then will you guarantee a good legal position. I therefore have a number of questions about the lifting of the CBHO. The CBHO now deals with the profession of students in higher education. It does that quickly and expertly. My group noted that the removal of the CBHO was only added to the legislative proposal after the Internet consultation. Student organisations are concerned that professional cases will soon disappear, that it will take longer for cases to be dealt with and that expertise will be lost. Can the Minister explain why the lifting of the CBHO was not included in the internet consultation? How does the Minister guarantee that the removal of CBHO will not result in the loss of expertise, capacity and accessibility? How does the Minister view the inclusion of a maximum lead time, for example 20 weeks, as recommended by the Council of State? Finally. The Netherlands has a strong vocational education sector. Mbos are the foundation of our society. This law therefore receives the full support of D66, because we are taking a step towards equal appreciation and treatment of MBO, HBO and WE students. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you to Mrs Hagen. Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On my side, too, a warm welcome to the Minister. It is symbolic somewhere that the first debate is about the MBO. I hope that this issue will remain high on the list of priorities and that we can achieve good things together. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the substance of the bill, I have something to say. This change of law has been a long time overdue, really too long. As early as 2017, my group opposed the education agreement, which was introduced only in the MBO. The investigation thus shows that the conclusion of this agreement does not involve equivalent interlocutors. Signing at the cross was the norm. That's bad anyway, but it's also unfair. Part of the legislative amendment involves harmonization with students at the university or at the university, so things that were much better regulated for them before. There is something very fundamental about this in the explanatory statement: there is no reason why a student from the MBO should have other, less accessible legal protection options. That sounds like an open door, but it's kind of bizarre that we're just about to talk about it this way. I also have to think of all the MBO students who have not been able to make use of this improvement, because they have been waiting so long. Maybe it's even been crucial in some cases. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this point and more generally. How is he going to ensure that MBO students no longer join behind when it comes to different topics? Then, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to move on to the content of the bill. My group welcomes the proposal before us. There are some very good improvements, especially for students with disabilities or chronic illness. We are also satisfied with the reduction of the burden for the MBO institutions themselves. I would therefore like to congratulate the institutions which have worked very hard over the last two years specifically to ensure that education continues as far as possible. Then I would like to ask a few questions to clarify the legislative proposal itself. A first question concerns the new dispute advisory committee for MBO students. This is an important tool for aligning the legal protection of MBO students with that of students at HBO or university. Can the Minister explain by whom the members of this committee will be appointed? Is this comparable to higher education and will it be done by the board of directors? If so, I still have questions about that. How, then, does the Minister intend to prevent the impartiality of the Committee on Disputes from being compromised? It deals with students' objections to decisions taken by the same board of directors. It seems to us to be a good solution to ensure a better balance and to have a student member on the dispute advisory committee by default, as is currently the case at Utrecht University. Can the Minister encourage this, in conversation with MBO institutions? Then I have a question about the lifting of the CBHO. Like our colleagues from DENK and D66, we are also concerned about this. We have also talked to students about this particular point; part is repetition. The college will be dissolved. It is assigned to the Administrative Court of the Council of State. We also find it remarkable that students were informed about this so late. For example, they also have concerns about the lead times, as more students will have access to this form of legal protection. It is, of course, very good that this is becoming more low-threshold, but we are wondering: should the same number of people do more work, or will additional resources be available? It has now also been agreed that the department will maintain an average lead time of 95 days when dealing with the professions. That's average. Does this also mean that a student may have to wait more than three months for a ruling? This can be very problematic if such a statement is important for the further progress of a student's learning time. Does the Minister understand that this is annoying when, for example, a ruling is also important for the registration of a follow-up study, especially if it is with another institution? How does he intend to prevent this from happening too often? As far as I'm concerned, one too many times! Then: how are students in higher education informed about the abolition of the CBHO? Like my colleague earlier, we are concerned about the different communication flows that will have to be set in motion; this is one of them. How are students at the MBO informed about this? Is that gonna happen in time? That seems to us to be extremely important. Then there's a point about low-threshold legal aid. I'm concerned about the experienced accessibility among students. I can also imagine that it could be a high threshold to knock on the door to the Council of State. That is why my group is asking whether existing, more accessible forms of legal aid, such as the National Student Law Office, can be strengthened. I understand that at the moment, four board members work for 16 hours a week at the Law Department. Those are actually absurd numbers, I notice when I think about how many students it is in the end. These are sometimes people who sometimes make weeks from 30 to 40 hours instead of 16 hours a week. They do this on the basis of a fixed grant of about €450 per board member per month. This is similar to the Student Line of the LSVb. For MBO students, there is no such form of legal aid. Can the Minister talk to the National Student Law Office, the Student Line and the JOB about such a provision also for MBO students? Is he prepared to make funds available for this purpose too? I'm considering a motion on this point. I think it is very good that we are going to amend the law, but I would also like to see all kinds of resources made available to increase accessibility for different layers. We think this could be a way to solve this. Then there's the cultural change, Mr. Chairman. The Council of State points out the need for a cultural change. We're all putting things on paper here, but they need to be executed now. It is, of course, very important that this can land in a good way, also to ensure that students really get used to these new circumstances and start using all the new instruments. For example, I have to think of confidants. They already exist, and educational institutions already have them, but too few students know how to find them at all, so let alone if something completely new is being set up. I read in the government's response that the Ministry, together with the MBO Council, will support institutions in the transition that the bill requires. That's very good. We still wonder whether the Minister can explain what this support will look like and what he expects to mean for the cultural change which the Council of State points out. We also wonder whether it is possible to carry out a mid-term evaluation of this. In my mind, there will be an overall assessment in five years' time. It would be good if we could take a look at whether things are going well with the institutions themselves and with the implementation. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of non-cost education. That is beyond the scope of this proposal at present, but access to justice is, of course, also extremely important for those people. Isn't there any way to encourage non-cost education in this improvement? And does the Minister have an idea of the legal status and protection of MBO students in private education? Is that better arranged, or less good? Is the Minister prepared to investigate that? Then we'll know if we need to look at that a little bit more, or maybe not at all. The latter would be very nice, of course. Finally, I come to the ombuds officer. This was also mentioned in the previous contribution. The ombuds officer has recently been arranged at universities. Recently we received a letter from JOB, the youth organisation for the MBO. They also want an ombudsperson per MBO institution, so students can raise problems in an easily accessible way. My group is concerned about the independence of an ombudsperson as there is now at universities. However, we do think it could be an important addition, and that is why we are wondering: how does the Minister look at an ombudsperson on the MBO? That may be beyond the scope of this particular debate, but it is ultimately about this set of measures. We believe that ombudsperson is extremely important in this regard. That was the substantive part. Finally, I would like to say and emphasise that hopefully we will not harmonise more often, but start treating students equally from the outset, as I said earlier. We must do our best to rectify this where necessary. Hopefully that will be unnecessary in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his wonderful portfolio and job. I look forward to working together from this position towards you. Many fine words have already been spoken today about the importance of the MBO and the students we all do for and we need so much. We all want to take good care of that. I agree with that. But today we are discussing a law with three objectives: improving the legal protection of students, improving access to justice and reducing bureaucracy for the institutions. Who could be against that? I don't. I must say that the questions we had in advance have all been answered in writing. I have nothing to add to that. Then you can ask, why is that good man standing here? Well, that's to thank you for your cooperation. As of today, Mr Harry van der Molen is MBO spokesperson. Thank you very much. I'm just gonna do p.o., vo and social services again. So good luck and thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you to Mr Peters for his words. Fortunately, we retain you as spokesperson for Education, but in a number of other areas. I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	We're gonna miss you, Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	If everyone had such a short contribution as Mr Peters just did...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mine's a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'll try to cut him down a little bit. Mr. Chairman. This is the debut of the minister of OCW. We therefore warmly welcome him to this Chamber and to that beautiful, important permanent Committee on Education. "The mother of all committees" has been mentioned. As a scientist on a mission and as an educator pur sang, I wish the Minister all the best. When it comes to the politician Dijkgraaf, I am in a different position as opposition leader. D66, whose minister, as I have heard from the media, only recently became a member, is ideologically our most armed opponent. It is the party that has been leading the way for 11 years to exclude and discriminate against us and our more than a million voters with a cordon of sanitation. As a result, these voters are not only excluded from power, but are not even heard or seen with incomprehensible self-evidentness. D66 is for the winners of globalisation, the people who are extremely satisfied with their lives and live in the white bicycle clubs, as I call them. There the houses are priceless and the people have no idea of the parallel world of our people. In the U.S. you trust these people are called deflorables. One has no idea of their needs, disappointments and distrust of the government. Politically speaking, no love is lost between us. We will be able to find each other when it comes to details in laws or regulations. But as soon as it comes to major themes such as internationalisation, englishing, the advancing wokism in higher education, the monoculture of left-wing opinions, censorship and even worse, the self-censorship that marches on at universities, the unscientific notion that gender, and even gender, is not biology, but a social construct... Yes, then separate our ways, to express the kaagian. But unlike the leader of this minister's party, our paths really separate. As far as we are concerned, therefore, your presidency cannot be short enough, but until then I wish you a great deal of pleasure. Mr. Chairman. This law deals with the legal accountability of the legal status of the MBOs as applicable to students in basic education and students in higher education. It's gonna be leveled. The current agreement in the MBO has already been mentioned, which dates back to 1996. It's been a long time. It hasn't been enough for years. It's kind of a cold contract between what we used to call "participants" and the relevant training. This is a cold approach that does not do justice to the MBO student and has not been able to raise enough awareness among MBOs about their rights and duties. It is therefore also a good thing that this education agreement will be abolished and replaced by a student status. We also consider it desirable to align the legal status of MBO students with that of students in basic education and students in higher education. The law ensures that the complaint handling becomes more insightful. For example, the suspension and removal rights of the institution are included in the WEB, the Education and Vocational Education Act. A few things. A lot has already been said about this, so a few specific things on our side. For example, we wonder why a maximum suspension period of two weeks is chosen. Is there any particular reason for that? Can the Minister respond to that? We would also like to know if the deadline of up to four weeks is four weeks! In which schools have to deal with objections to disposal, it is not a much too long period. That must be faster and more efficient. Why do I say that? This is about a school. If there is a conflict, there is daily talk of it; I know that from a long experience, the teacher must intervene immediately. If that doesn't work, the mentor will come in. And if that doesn't work, the department leader. That should ideally be solved the same day. This also fits in with the educational climate of the MBO. What seems to us, above all, inappropriate is the method of reflection, uncertainty and doubt, in which a student has to dangle for four weeks. A roc is primarily a pedagogic community that does not want to compare itself with a public prosecutor's office or something, where suspects are sent to find out weeks later whether or not a suspension has been justified. Will you stop it? We are talking about a school in which education, pedagogy and dealing with each other should be central. We get the impression that the centre of gravity is still with the institution, especially given the fact that these schools think they need four weeks for such a case. Is that in the best interest of the student or of the school? Are the student/student's cognitive skills sufficiently developed to say "student"? Is there sufficient parental involvement in any unjustified suspension or removal to deal with an MBO student, especially at starting levels 1 and 2? We have serious doubts about this. What we also find strange is the discrepancy between the suspension period in the MBO and the FVO. Why has it doubled in relation to vo? This gives the impression that mbo'ers can spend an extra week without education, should they be suspended. That's impossible, isn't it? I'd like a reaction to that, too. As for other forms of education, we also see nothing for the MBO in broadening that national financial support for student board members who are active in vocational education or for a political youth organisation. We are very consistent in this. In most cases we talk about organisations such as DWARS, the Young Democrats, RADICAAL and the Young Socialists. We find that undesirable. Also about extracurricular activities in MBO we say that this is a personal choice of students in MBO and also of students in higher education. Our position will therefore not be surprised if you know that teachers who come on a list of candidates as PVVs, for example, are either dismissed or called to the full board of such a rock, where they are chosen to either disappear from that list or be put on the street. We say: let D66, GroenLinks, BET1 and the PvdA themselves go into the pouch to financially support those young people. Mr. Chairman. We are therefore in principle in favour of the creation of a student status, but why did not a teacher's statute be included? We see that freedom of expression for teachers is not yet guaranteed, quite the contrary. I refer to the case-Paula van Moen. The teacher Van Manen wrote an extremely discreet and balanced book entitled "When do we get lessons again?" It is a brilliant title, moreover, about its experiences with nonsensical educational renewals. She did that as a teacher attached to ROC Nijmegen. She wasn't thanked by that authoritarian school leadership. She was suspended and fired. After a long legal battle, she was also unsuccessful by the judge. The judge then referred to the collective agreement, which offers little, or no, freedom to bring out work-related abuses. I will not, of course, ask the Minister to sit on the judge's seat or to interfere in collective agreements, but does the Minister at least share our view that a teacher's statute would not be an unnecessary luxury for the MBO, with this case in mind? Surely it is a shame that teachers with a large, warm, hard education, like Mrs Van Manen, are being driven out of education by long-toed drivers and are even being banned in practice? Especially in a time of a whining shortage of teachers, we have to prevent that. This is yet another sign for us that administrators seem to forget that teachers and students should be at the heart of education. I would like a reflection, and I would like an assurance, that the Minister will announce an investigation into how the freedom of expression of teachers and teachers could be guaranteed. Mr President, concluding. Following the example of the Council of State, much has already been said about this, and we also call for attention to be paid to the necessary cultural change which must go hand in hand with the strengthening of the legal status and protection of students in the MBO. That requires great commitment from teachers. Students should be actively involved in raising this awareness. There is also a need to explain clearly within the schools themselves what is useful and necessary, but above all what the practical significance of the student status is. That will determine the success of this law. How's the Minister gonna do that? Mr Van Baarle's amendment also looks very good, as far as I am concerned. We will therefore be able to count on our support. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you to Mr Beertema. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr President, thank you very much. The Minister is making a flying start with this bill. With this he also strengthens his words, the words of appreciation towards the MBO. This way for these students to jump into the breach, I think it's classy. This tastes like more. We also warmly wish the Minister wisdom, strength and blessing in carrying out his mission. Mr. Chairman. The legal protection of citizens has received a great deal of attention in recent years. We hear a lot about fees, whistleblowers and benefit recipients. So far, the MBO student has not come into this picture. However, as a SGP, we have the impression that in some cases this would be the case. In the Chamber a few years ago attention was asked for the MBO student who had been written out behind her back and who was then saddled with a huge student debt. We also hear of tough procedures to fix, for example, a lack of support. This also has to do with the fact that schemes in MBO are less extensive than in higher education, whereas the target group is often more vulnerable. That wrings. So this bill certainly provides for a need. For starters, just a concrete example as a question. We hear from practice that students are enrolled for months or even years without following the training. Eventually, the student will have to pay the tuition fees for those years. In theory, that is fair, but in practice a great tragedy may have arisen in this way, partly due to negligence on the part of the institution itself. Can the Minister explain what this bill is going to do about such a situation, because these are concrete situations that are going to improve? How is the role of the institutions taken into account in situations like this? Madam President. The SGP welcomes the abolition of the Education Agreement. We have been calling for this for years. The education agreement actually combined the worst of two worlds: false security for students and burdens on schools. But the alternative doesn't reassure us directly. The bill only requires the school to make appointments with the student. There is a real risk that the practice of the agreements may fail in the same way as that of the education agreement: the institution offers a standard package and the student signs at the cross. That is why I am preparing an amendment to clarify the process that goes with it, precisely because we often talk about vulnerable students. The institution will have to clearly examine how to take into account the student's support needs, circumstances and possibilities. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Not only at the front of the agreements but also at the back of the procedures must the position of the student be in order. It is important that students also receive one window in the MBO where they can contact with all their objections, complaints and questions. At the same time, you become a bit despondent when you see the overview of all options and read the explanatory notes. This calls for some kind of higher math of students. On one specific point, the SGP sees the need for a supplement which significantly enhances legal protection. Let me explain. According to the government, what institutions do in the context of carrying out agreements with students are not decisions under the law and the rule based on it. Therefore, students still have to go to civil courts, which in practice hardly happens. The SGP finds this distinction artificial. It is certainly not in the interest of vulnerable students that they should still have to go to civil courts on this very point. Will the Minister also respond to the jurists' claim that the rulings of the College of Appeal show that all decisions resulting from the education laws are indeed public decisions which can only be decided by the College? For the MBO, this would mean that disputes about agreements would eventually end up with the Council of State. I agree with Professor Van Schoonhoven that the lack of clarity on this point is unsatisfactory. She says: "Without amendment, education and legal practice will soon have to decide on this." Does the Minister also think that this perspective is undesirable, especially when we see how many years in higher education have been unclear about this? As an aid measure, I would like to table an amendment to involve the Disputes Committee in appropriate education in the MBO as well. For this specific category we have an appropriate solution. Madam President. Replacing the College of Appeal for Higher Education by the Council of State requires great care. As colleagues from D66 and GroenLinks have already discussed this in detail, I will conclude my story with this. I agree with the questions that have been asked in this respect. Finally, a question about reporting to parents and students on the progress of students. The bill doesn't say anything about the frequency. My question is specific: what measure does the Minister use? Why wouldn't it be good to say something about that in the bill? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you to Mr Bishop. Finally, Mr De Hoop of the PvdA has the floor. Maybe it's okay to tell you that we'll suspend for half an hour after this. Then the Minister can prepare himself for his reply and we can eat a sandwich. So after you, I'll suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	Very good, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister once again on his appointment. I wish him every happiness and, above all, the inspiration that this group of young people needs and deserves. Good luck. Mr. Chairman. The legal protection of MBOs is a matter which concerns the members of the PvdA Group. In the past, Tanja Jadnansing defended an initiative paper on the final responsibility of educational institutions for the internship offer. Mohammed Mohandis, together with colleague Van Meenen of D66, argued for student guidance in MBO institutions and for approval in the field of school fees. That is, of course, also very important. Kirsten van den Hul, together with colleague Kwint of the SP, tabled a motion on additional support for pregnant MBO students. There are many good reasons for defending the legal protection of MBOs. After all, the MBO is an educational sector where educational institutions and business rightly have a strong finger on it. But the students who need to gain knowledge, insight and skills are the weakest party in this respect. In this situation, there is a risk that all parties will point to each other if things go wrong. The students whose perspective is to do it face problems that they cannot solve themselves. When in the past the written education agreement was introduced to ensure legal status, this became a document with one large inscrutable legal disclaimer. The CDA also mentioned the bureaucracy that ended up there. It was precisely the educational institutions that were exempt from any liability for things that went wrong. You shouldn't want something like that. That is why it is right that we should abolish these compulsory agreements now. This bill regulates even more valuable matters. Consider the extension of the rules of the education and examination scheme and the student status. Think of the guarantees for careful suspension and removal procedures and an accessible facility that students can go to with all their questions. These are all things that we could have handled better yesterday than today. In her note following the report, the Minister responded to important points and to our critical notes and those of student organisation JOB. As early as 3 June 2021, this bill had been notified for plenary consideration. However, at the procedural meeting, it was decided to postpone the procedure. The proposed date of adoption of the legislative proposal, 1 August 2022, is not likely to be met. It's a real shame that we're not treating it until now in the House of Representatives. The introduction of the system of legal protection in the MBO would be postponed for a year, until 1 August 2023. Thus the previous minister, Van Engelshoven. Will 2022 indeed be a lost year in terms of improving the legal protection of MBOs? I'd like to hear a reflection from the Minister on that. We appreciate Mrs Van Engelshoven's commitment. It has made every effort to ensure that the law is implemented by 1 August 2022. The former Minister's willingness to take critical notes from the opposition seriously in her note of the report is also commendable. We hope that this Minister will continue to do so. Mr. Chairman. We have rightly heard warm words about the MBO today. My party feels the same way. We need young people's craftsmanship to shape the green economy. We need them as much as we can to keep the vulnerable care alive. They are all crucial professions to which we train them. That deserves more appreciation. We often talk about equal treatment for MBO, HBO and wo in this Chamber, but perhaps we should talk about unequal treatment for those MBOs. They may deserve more investment, just when we need them extra. I find it self-explanatory that for each portfolio it was clear who would become minister, while for the MBO it became clear later. That bothers my party, especially for those young people we really need. It is precisely because it is so crucial that I should like to hear from the Minister how it is possible that we did not know it until so late. How can we prevent this from happening in the future and how will you, with your great love for science, ensure that the MBO is not snowed under? Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hope. I really thought we would get through this first period without interruptions, but Mr El Yassini still has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	A quick question. I am disappointed in what Mr De Hoop said about the lack of clarity about the MBO portfolio. I shared it, until I heard behind the scenes that the MBO had not so much forgotten, but that this minister and the other minister were fighting about who would get the MBO portfolio. Do you therefore agree with me that we should actually be proud that, despite the lack of clarity, behind the scenes it turned out that both ministers were dying to have this wonderful layer of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	Well, it's something new you're about to put on the table. If that were really the case, if the Minister managed to do it, then I assume that MBOs can expect a lot. Of course, I'd like to hear it from the Minister himself in a moment. I hope that Mr El Yassini is right, but I think he is saying, like me, that the image created by it is annoying and that these young people cannot use it and do not deserve it. So if this is the case again next time, let us make sure that the image that Mr El Yassini paints, and sounds very nice to me, comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	I agree with that. Again, you hear something. It's not that I know, but you hear it. At least it gives me hope. In any case, I am pleased that we are all taking the lead in giving the appreciation to the MBO. I would just like to thank Mr De Hoop for these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you. I'm suspending until 12:35.
