ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.1.0	It's part of the session. In accordance with Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, the proposals of the 9th and 10th of November took place the presentation before the House of Commons of the government program of the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality... (Founding voice) Mr. García Albiol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.2.0	Yes, Madam President. On a point of order and in accordance with Rule 88, we wanted to make it a pre-emption before we started this plenary, which relates to the judgment... no, to the resolution issued yesterday by the Constitutional Court leaving the resolution that was approved in the past when it was manifested..., where this plenary was in favour of initiating the process of rupture between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. We wanted to ask you, Madam President, that you, therefore, as the President, make a public demonstration in accordance with this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.3.0	Mr. García Albiol, this is not a point of order. I think they don't match, because you have nothing to do with today's plethora. In any case, we'll deal with it at the table. Thank you. [[Agenda debate and investiture vote by Mr Arthur Mas and Mr Gavarró, candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat (continuation)]] [[201-00001/11]] I'll start again, huh? According to Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and of the Government, the proposed November 9 and 10 took place before the plenary of the House of Commons of the government program of the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality, and since it did not fulfil the majority required to be invested, in compliment of this same law it is now appropriate to initiate a _second debate and a _second vote in which the simple majority will be sufficient. The candidate proposed is the very honorable Mr.Artur Mas and Gavarró, who has the word now. The candidate for the presidency of the Generality (Artur Mas and Gavarró ) Thank you very much, Madam President. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. Certainly, it was said two days ago: "Turnin said you. So, well, it's said today and we'll be back exactly here, in this second part of the investiture. It means that, as you will understand very well, I am, in addition, convinced that you will accept this explanation that I will now give them. Not to reproduce, of course, the debate of the other day, which was very long, was very extensive. My initial intervention, I am aware that it was very long, also, the replicas also, was able to talk about everything, quite, deeply. Therefore, they will understand that I, therefore, do not recover what has already been said two days ago, among other things because this first vote has already taken place and now we are just in the opportunity to know if we can finally unlock this investment today, so that we can form a definite government in Catalonia. I am recovering, like at least, a concept of the other day, in the sense that Catalonia is under a definite and untried government, so it is under our control. It has not felt that Parliament is constituted in the way it is, it has not felt that Parliament has begun its work – and it has begun it – but that it cannot do it fully, nor is it alone the Parliament, because it turns out that we still have a government in place, which, as I said the other day, is a government that derives from the previous legislature and we are no longer, in the drawing legislature, that was the previous one, we are at the eleventh. Therefore, I insist on this reflection because it seems to me that it is important that we share it, in fact, all folds, because the Parliament finally composes it among all and it is work of all that this Parliament, therefore, works and pulls forward. This reflection and even more insistent, if you want, after some decisions that are being taken, this time, accelerated in Madrid, contrasts the ability of these days to decide in Madrid, which is very quick, with this slowness that we are having in Catalonia to do the dues that we have to do. We have another opportunity to finish these duets and to do them well, and I hope, therefore, that, as a minimum, there is some kind of advance from the point of view of the not only explanations, but from the point of view of the positions, in order to be able to complete what gives them, the duty we have to do the work, to make it well done and to have a government in Catalonia that can begin to function and that, moreover, therefore, in parallel to the work of Parliament, is beginning to make the first passes of all this eleven legislature. What happened two days ago today that I can add to it? Certainly, there are some things that can be added to it. What I commented two days ago is commented, is written, is debated, but as you know – the communication media were left alone today – you know that yesterday there was a finding, a meeting of work between Junts for the Yes, representatives of the CUP and myself to try to find solutions or, at least, to establish some kind of approximation to resolve this issue of the investment and, therefore, of the government defined in Catalonia. I think I have an obligation to inform the room on time of the contents of yesterday's find, because you still know not through the communication media, which, obviously, can't explain everything because you weren't present. Today I will explain everything to you, and you will appreciate what this step is about, that I understand that it was done yesterday, concretely, therefore, by Juntes per el Si and also by me to try to find this point, this point, let's say, of course, this point that makes it possible to descale the investiture, if it can be today itself. In fact, yesterday, to the finding that it was produced, and this I understand complementing my speech two days ago and so, it forms part of the government program that I present to this chamber, that's what I wanted to comment on today... yesterday's finding was put on the table two proposals that are translated because you can value them. One of them is to do something that had already been done on some other occasion, at very specific moments of the past thirty-five years by different governments, which was to exercise the presidency of the Generality in a way, so let's say it, more shared with other members of the Government or, let's say it more precisely, to share the function of the Government between the President and other members of the Government. This had occurred on time in the later two, three years of the Jordi Pujol government, but he also had a place in the early years of the Pasqual Maragall government. In those two moments, one at the end of his political trajectory, the other at the getaway as President of the Generality, he laid on the table and it was approved and thus worked out a model of functioning through which the President, obviously, had all his attributes, which are most significant – you know them very well, I can't repeat them – but the Government and the President can delegate functions without losing political capacity, but share it and share it on the ground, for all that. So it happened in those two different stages, as you see, more and more, with governments, so also with different types and compositions. I've put it back on the table, because I understand that we're also at a time, so different from what's usual. We are in a moment of transition, we are not fooled, we are passing from autonomy– or this is what the absolute majority of this chamber claim–, we are passing from the autonomy that we have known for thirty-five years, roughly, to the constitution of a state, and this is the sense of this legislature. And to move from autonomy to the constitution of a state, so it's obvious that we're in a transition legislature. It is not the legislature through which everything has been done, because it will still be warm – and we commented on it the other day – a democratic screen through the vote of the people of Catalonia to confirm this proposal of the Catalan state, a democratic screen that goes up to 50_percent of the votes cast, that is not done yet, but it is clear that we have an absolute majority in this Parliament to reach that point and to hold it all at once to form a state in Catalonia. And that means a transition legislature. And to address this transition legislature, so there's a lot of work for a lot of people, too, between the government. And in concrete terms, what was proposed yesterday, and today we have moved them, is that there are three areas of government, shared with the Presidency of the Generalitat, one of them because of the economic and occupation issues, therefore, the central theme, how the country's economy works, how we prepare it for the future, how we call this economic function and the economic progress with the creation of jobs, with the occupation, with work, this would be one of the areas where the government would be structured; of this area there would be, therefore, five departments that would be associated with this very area of government. Then, in the course of the debate, if I call, then I will specify this content. There would be another, which would be an area of external, institutional and transparency, on which, therefore, four government departments would also depend directly. And finally there would be an area, which we proposed to be'said of the welfare state, on which would depend four more departments of the government. In total, therefore, we would be talking about thirteen departments grouped in this way: five in the area of economy and occupation; four in the area of external institutional matters and transparency; four more in the area of the welfare state. All this, obviously, coordinated by the President of the Government, by the President of the Generality, but with officials, each of these areas. Delegation functions mean, in short, therefore, to share the direction of the Government. And at the front of each of these areas there would be, effectively and obviously, a person who would occupy an area of a department, concrete, but more grouped areas, as I have explained. So, in fact, it would be a presidency with all its functions, but partly shared with these three people who would preside over each of these three areas. This we understand is in line, therefore, with some desires and reflections that have been expressed in these years. It is, as you can understand, an attempt to approximate the positions defended by Junts for the Yes and the CUP, etc., to try to reach, in this sense, an agreement. He gave them that day, in response to the resolution passed by this Parliament and to which he referred before Mr García Albiol, right? that resolution, therefore, like all agreements, was the object of a dialogue, was the object of negotiation and was finally the object of a pact. And when that happens, then, it's logical that all positions move in some sense to get to this point, because everything ends up being more important than every part, this is a negotiation that ends up successfully, right? We understand that this proposal, therefore, is in line with the synthesis of proposals that have already been expressed and that the Government could operate without any problem. I insist, at other times this had already worked this way, even though it was punctual moments. And now we are at a clear moment, so, different from what normality would be, because, I insist, we are at a point in a legislature that must serve what it is to serve, that is to pass from this autonomy to what the future Catalan State must be. This is one of the proposals that was put on the table yesterday and that goes in this line of a shared political direction, shared at the top of the Government, with full involvement of all its members, with assigned responsibilities, with delegation – from the point of view of the proposal – of deliberation, but also even approval of certain things. That's how it worked at other times, too. There are things that are delegated by the Government to these areas of government, to these delegated commissions, can be delegated even to all regulated issues, to all topics, therefore, of concrete approval of concrete issues that have an execution character; all this is perfectly possible. Therefore, if this was finally a possible way to reach agreement in the face of the investiture, it would be explored in such a way that this could be done in all its details. In the band of this, another proposal was put on the table, which also wanted to comment on why you, therefore, have it presented and why you can be object of the debate. And the other proposal is the following. You know that in a parliament – in our own, too – there is always the possibility of making motions of censure, but in our legal order, the motions of censure are constructive, in the sense that it is to be presented by a candidate to replace a president; hence the construction character of the motions of censure. These, obviously, agree with the Rules, are at the forefront, therefore, of parliamentary groups, they can use them as they like, etc. But, at the expense of the motion of censure, there have also been questions of confidence. The questions of trust are not presented to you by the parliamentary groups, presented by the Government – presented by the Government. And, in short, for the people, therefore, not expert, that it is certainly the majority of our country in this sense, a question of trust, finally, a government can present by substantiating its management to the approval of Parliament at a certain time of its management, in such a way that the Parliament can assess, in the middle of a legislature, for example, whether that management, according to the criteria of Parliament, is correct or not; whether the government still deserves confidence or not; whether the Parliament considers that the government that has been constituted can follow or hold it up and, therefore, replace it. As you see, this, therefore, is a great force from the point of view of who can exercise it, but it is the power of the Government to present a question of trust – the power of the Government. And what was offered yesterday concretely, in this negotiation, with the intention of unsettling things and, therefore, the investiture and, therefore, the legislature and, therefore, that there is a definite government and, therefore, that we are able to function quickly now, that is what the people finally ask us, the one that was put on the table is that, after the first session, that would end, as you know, certainly at the end of July, from here and before the general policy debate that normally takes place at the end of September, the Government would voluntarily present a question of confidence before this House, because, after the end of its term of office, after the end of its term of office – after the end of its term of office, the Government would voluntarily present a matter of confidence that would end, as you know, as you know, after the end of its term of office – after the end of September, after the end of its term of office, the term of office, after the end of office of the government, after the end of the term of office. And, that, voluntarily on the part of the government. It is fixed that we are talking about strictly legal issues; I mean, we do not deviate from the norm. I am saying this because now, as there are so many debates about this, etcetera, this is perfectly from the norm, it is perfectly legal, and therefore there is no problem doing it this way. But it's not just a legal issue, it's also a political issue; I mean that what you claim is, before the difficulty at this time of forming a government – that it's an objective difficulty, that we can't keep it –, say to Parliament, that it's ultimately to solve this investiture of a president and to form a government: "Espite, we are aware of the structure, the composition of Parliament at this time, as a result of the votes of 27 September. So, we do this voluntarily as a government if, finally, we can form the government, right? And this means, therefore, that, I insist, spent the summer, spent the first session period, we would voluntarily appear in this chamber because all of you can appreciate the management of the Government, not only with a debate of ordinary general policy, but with a question of confidence, which, as you know, has a decisive character, because, if the government that presents the question of trust does not exceed it, then I can invest another president of the Generality. Check if you're strong, that's what. If the government does not overcome the question of confidence that it presents voluntarily, automatically the president ceases and can invest a new president. This isn't just legal and it doesn't just agree with the norm, it's deeply democratic – deeply democratic – among this democratic pulcrum that you know is inspiring all this process and that it must also inspire the functioning of the Government. And let us think, from our point of view, that this, therefore, gives to the whole chamber – let us not deceive ourselves, to the whole chamber – to all the groups in the chamber, and therefore, through you, to all the representation of the Catalan citizenry, after the vote of 27 September, this enormous power to be able to decide, in a few months' time, whether the Government has done a good job in this struggle to continue or, if it is, at that time, to interrupt the continuity of that Government. We think that these are offers, they are proposals that clearly have an intention, that is to unlock this blocking situation in which we find ourselves and that we believe that it is not good for anyone: it is not good either for what they can be in the government or for what they are in opposition. Because this, let's not fool ourselves, this, then, or paralyzes or mig paralyzes what this beginning of the legislature is. And this isn't the warrant we got out of the city on 27 September. There are so many people and so many people, with the vote that was made: "You, from this result, solve things and pull them forward, and do the work; that's what they said to us. Of this "doing the work", the Catalan citizen told us: "And, moreover, those who defend the yes to the project because Catalonia has a state, and an independent state, have an absolute majority in this Parliament, to which they say some times: "We are seventy-two. Well, then, we have to prove it, but not just with speeches, we have to prove it because of the facts. And because in the end the themes are solved, so positions have to move. If no one moves, the fears are not resolved. It's what's been going on with Madrid these last few days, it's always been not everything, there's never been a little movement of anything. As far as I'm concerned, since I see that Mr. García Albiol says that he doesn't have a face, I'll make one thing clear to him that maybe he didn't come out the other day: nothing to say or anything else that you don't have to see with the subject of the consultation. Because I still want to remind them that I went to La Moncloa on July 2014, more than a year ago, a year and a half ago, I went to La Moncloa, I saw the president of the Spanish Government, I left them twenty-three points above the table, with reference to the consultation, and, of all these twenty-three, there is only one that has been unlocked. One, one. Imagine the ability of movement that has occurred in Madrid in anything. Clearly, on the basis of pure and harsh immobilism, things are deteriorating and, even so, they are rotten, and then they are very complicated. If this has happened to us in the Catalonia-Spanish State relationship, let's make sure that we don't pass between Catalonia, that here we do have to do our best because this immobilism is not present in Catalan politics. From here precisely this will, both on the part of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes as well as my own, to try to move some positions, which, I say again, are in line, perfectly, with our standards – we do not depart from them – and in strictly democratic hope – in strictly democratic experience. And voluntarily, as the government – if we are – giving Parliament this great strength to the head of de_mesos to say: « Continue or « Do not continue. We understand that these are significant, salient gestures, that I mean clearly that they do not denaturalize in absolute terms what is the Presidency of the Generality – in absolute terms, and that is important for the country, the occupation that occupies it, the exercise that exercises it – do not denaturalize in absolute terms; and all this, in a legislature as we are, they can strengthen, through this multiplication of functions and this co-responsibility to the whole, what is the political action of the Government, clearly, and of the same President of the Generality. And that, therefore, I believe, modestly, and we do it with the best possible, that it can be a way of finding – let's hope so – to take the final decisions that we believe this Parliament should take, if it can be, today; and if it can't be today, then we won't cheat, because the days have gone by, certainly there is still a time margin, but the margins are not only legal, but they are also of political opportunity, and it is clear that time has passed and that we understand that Parliament, this issue of the investiture, should resolve it, in one sense or another, in a more definitive way. We, with this offer that I wanted to move them, this double offer, we do not just want to leave the door open, not only that, but that we want, therefore, that it is clear that on the other side of the door, in ours, there is a willingness to dial through the facts, there is a willingness to approach through the facts, there is a willingness to negotiate through the facts and it is possible to agree if, at the end of the day, this Parliament has achieved a majority enough to unlock this situation in which we find ourselves. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.4.0	After the candidate's intervention, we suspended the session for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.5.0	It's part of the session. We shall then proceed to the statements of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. First of all, there is the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.6.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Mas, today you have not again defrauded. The other day, I told him that, to you who talks so much about disconnecting with Spain, to you, what had happened to him was that he had disconnected from reality. And just as the other day was an hour and a half, in his speech, and he did not utter the word "corruption" which has merit, he has merit with which he is falling in Catalonia, an hour and a half speaking of politics and not naming the word "corruption", today he has forgotten to speak of a small detail – of a small detail – and that is that his plan, that his project, that his offer to Catalans has been suspended by the Constitutional Court. It is no surprise, all must be said, because in any democratic country the courts would act before a resolution which says that you are going to jump over the laws and courts of justice. I mean, it's no surprise. But yesterday we already had confirmation that the Constitutional Court has suspended that fantastic plan that you have for the Catalans. And it is also that yesterday she was asked by the Counsellor, the Vice-President..., she was also introduced..., she was asked by other members of the Government: "What are you going to do? Are they going to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling like any neighbor's child? They said, "No, we are going to do the will of Parliament." You are being tremendously irresponsible, tremendously unconscious of what this can cause Catalonia. You are endangering self-government and this Parliament. And I tell you one thing: what are you going to do, Mr. Mas? Because you, as you did not refer to the Constitutional Court's ruling, as if it did not exist, like children, huh? They cover and say: "Ah! You don't see me... well, the suspension is there, Mr. Mas. Aim there. Look at the reality because it's there. What are you going to do? Are they going to pull forward? Will they fail to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling? Do you know that this is endangering this camera? Do you know that this puts officials and citizens on foot in Catalonia at risk? What are you going to do? Are you going to force the citizens of Catalonia to pay instead of the tax they have to pay what you make up? What, are you going to force the officials of Catalonia to do the laws and procedures that you say and that are absolutely outside the legal system? Look, Mr. Mas, the citizens and the officials want to sleep quiet, and have their salary at the end of the month, and pay the mortgage and the letter of the car, and the food and clothes of their children. If you need strong emotions because you have done everything in life and now you want to be a martyr, perfect. But what we are not going to allow you is that you force the officials and citizens of Catalonia to accompany you in martyrdom. You do whatever you want but leave the officials and citizens of Catalonia alone, because your decisions – your decisions, Mr. Mas – affect 7_million_and_half Catalans, and affect us in everything. Because I know that the other day we were talking about the international impact that was having everything that is happening in Catalonia. The world looks at us, and so much it looks at us. Do you know what the newspaper, the Financial Times, has said? What's happening in Catalonia is crazy. And do you know how he qualifies you? Sucking. As President Tarradellas rightly said, in politics you can do anything but ridicule. And if you want to make a fool of yourself, perfect. But you have to understand that, for the time being, you are the President-in-Office; that you are the President of the Generalitat, malauradament, but you are. Therefore, when you speak, when you act, when you aspire to achieve some goal, you have to think that you have behind you 7_million_and_half Catalans, 7_million_and_half Catalans that what you need is a salary, and quiet, and living quiet, and being happy. You may have exits, you may possibly go abroad, you may register with a multinational; you may have a lot of savings, but people who have to pay the mortgage and who depend on an official salary, I assure you that you are not as quiet as you may be. Therefore, this legal uncertainty, this uncertainty, this madness – which even the Financial Times recognizes – really saves it. If you want to book it for your person, perfect, you can freely do it, but do not drag 7_million_and_average Catalans. With what has been Catalonia, with the admiration that has always generated Catalonia, not only in the rest of Spain, but in the rest of the world. A reference of wisdom, economic dynamism, entrepreneurship, openness... The image of Catalonia is being loaded into the rest of Spain and the rest of the world, and we cannot afford it. Catalonia is much more than you, Mr. Mas. You are not the first person to confuse Catalonia with yourself or to confuse Catalonia with a match. Catalonia is 7_million_and_average of people. Therefore, the institutional blockade that you are causing, the situation of uncertainty, legal insecurity, is bad for Catalonia. Besides, they're out of plans. The resolution they adopted the other day – no surprises – is suspended because it is crazy and because it is out of the law. So what do you offer the Catalans? How long, how much more money is going to cost Catalans their inventions? And today it comes with an artifact, doesn't it? With another invention. You're the strange president, the strange candidate, the strange president. You're number four on the list. No one has done it – no one has done it. To be president and to be president again he presents number 4. You put on your own list those who were supposed to be the opposition. Because it's opposition, it's opposition leader we've had in the last legislature, who's going with you on the list. What an opposition leader we've had. (Whispering) You hand over Catalonia's governability to the CUPs – to the CUPs – which are a party that enjoys failing to comply with the law; if it goes to them, it goes to that roll, but to you not(remor de veus), to you, not. It may be your M.O., but not yours. We are not deceived, Mr. Mas; you, if I told you the other day, if we have known you for thirty years, and we know what you have said, and we know what you have done, and we know how you have managed. This invention of jumping is the law and saying that you are above the courts. But if no one believes it. And now that you're making up that saying that, well, you're the president but you have no idea how many vice presidents. So what? The president would remain you. You can make it up..., you may fool those of the CUP, that I don't know, because here we don't know if you're going to cheat or not, if you're going to fail the only electoral promise I've heard you, that is that you're not going to do it to you president, I don't know if you're going to fail, but Catalans don't fool us: you would still be president, because president there is one, vice president I don't know if there can be twenty-five, but president of the Generalitat, or president, there is one. And you're willing to do anything to remain president. But we're already going through some lines that, really, this is intolerable – it's intolerable. I tell you one thing, Mr.Mas: if you were an observer of all this, if the barbarities that you are doing were another, you would be the first critic, the first to criticize. If we just have to recover debates from when you were the leader of the opposition against the tripartite... my God! , what I used to say to those gentlemen – often with good reason, by the way. But you're making the tripartite an example of wisdom, of management, of legality. It's doing good to the tripartite that ruined Catalonia. You're overtaking all the lines, all the red lines. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Mas... [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't be nervous, gentlemen of the tripartite, who will understand that we can't be the most..., those who defend their management, because there are things that can't be done. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, let's see, Mr. Mas, you don't have a project; you, what do you offer Catalans? , install us all in the illegality? , to make a banana republic outside the law and outside the law and out of the European Union? Is that really what you, after thirty years of politics, are able to offer Catalans? In Catalonia we need a president who manages, who solves problems that defend our interests. Who is currently negotiating with the Government of Spain improvements for Catalonia? Who is calling for a better funding model? Who is asking for the Mediterranean Corridor to be boosted? Who is asking for more resources and ensuring basic health and education services? Who? If you're not in reality. You're not even expected anymore. In fact, I tell you one thing: what you are doing is counterproductive to our interests. The madness you are doing is counterproductive for Catalans, not only because it installs us, let's say, in disgovernment, in illegality, but who is now the handsome one who goes to the Spanish government to ask for a better system of financing? Are you going to ask for a better funding system for Catalans? Obviously not. You've lost all legitimacy, and I'm telling you, really, with sadness, because you have to see the one that's binding you to be president. We must see the situation in which the Catalans are taking us, which we have always been an economic, political and sensible reference. He's throwing all that baggage we have in Catalonia by the edge for an occurrence, for a personal interest, because he has to face justice. That, really, Mr. Mas, is intolerable, because in politics you can do everything but you can't do the ridiculous. And you can't divide Catalans and you can't scare thousands of officials, who don't sleep quiet at night right now, to know if you... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.7.0	Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.8.0	Many officials, who do not know if they are going to see themselves in the thesis of obeying the Home Secretary or the Minister. And they don't know if they're going to be in the middle without knowing what legality to apply, not knowing if they're going to fine him on both sides, because this is another. The same is true of citizens who are now complying with the law of truth and you are fined for not complying with what you have invented. Or vice versa: either the one you invent is fulfilled and you are not fulfilling the real one. Are you aware that you are affecting 7_million_and_average people? I tell you one thing, Mr. Mas, we're still in time, we're still in time for you to stop thinking about your person and think about the 7_million_and_average of Catalans. We are still in time to put this situation back on track. We are still in time to seek a political majority in this Parliament and begin to govern, and improve public services, and manage our finances, and prioritize and solve people's problems, and go to the Spanish government and negotiate, and legitimately ask for things that are beneficial to Catalans. We're still on time. If you take one more step, Mr. Mas, you will not only become a martyr, but you will be dragging seven million and a half Catalans, and I assure you that no one will forgive you. You'll want to go into history, but, as I was telling you the other day, in history many characters have gone through that have not passed by precisely to help people and to be good people, or to manage well. Don't try to get into history at any price, Mr. Mas. We are 7_million_and_half Catalans, different, we think in a different way, but all – we all – have one thing in common, and we want to live in peace; we want our problems to be solved; we want our children to go to good schools; we want to be able to pay our mortgage or our rent; our elders, if they are sick, to go to health care; we want their pensions to be covered; we want to have trains. That's what people want, Mr. Mas, not your inventions, not that you go into history, not that you're able to do anything because you're president, not that you hand Catalonia over to the CUPs. Do not give Catalonia to the CUPs, Mr. Mas, because they will not forgive you either your own, or those who have voted for you, or those who have trusted you, or those who have broken their faces to defend you. No one's going to forgive you that, Mr. Mas. And you have a lot of power; you are President of the Generalitat, no more or less, in office. He is president of 7_million_and_average of people. Be aware of what it means. You were telling me the other day that if I was aware of what I was assuming and of the effort. Of course I am aware of what it means to be president of the Generalitat: small responsibility, small responsibility on a person's back. So, Mr. Mas, don't drive us crazy, don't generate any more covers from the Financial Times saying this is crazy and that you're a pain in the ass. I don't like being insulted by the president of my autonomous community, I don't like [[strong remorse of the eyes]] But you're looking for him, Mr. Mas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.9.0	Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.10.0	...is that he's looking for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.11.0	...respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.12.0	Do you think that ordinary people on the street enjoy being told that they are scumbags? What are we talking about in these terms at international level? Do you think we enjoy it because you are accused of disobedience, because you skip the laws? Do you think that we are a scenario that we like? Well, I'm sorry to say no. What we would like is to sit at a table and start negotiating and dialogue and agree on measures of health, education, SMEs, self-reliant and infrastructure. Are you forgetting that Catalonia must be managed? Do you forget that we are 7 million and a half people? , that we have a budget of more than €35,000_million to manage? Mr. Mas, I told you the other day, neither you nor any invention I can make can get us out of this situation. It doesn't matter if you're the president, or if you put another one, or if twenty-five vice-presidents are invented. The resolution you raised the other day will not be able to implement it; it has been suspended by the Constitutional Court, and it is logical that it would have happened in any democratic country. So don't take another step, rectify, we're on time. Let's look for an alternative majority, let's rule Catalonia, let's think about citizens, let's give back to Catalonia the name that has always been deserved; the essence of Catalonia, wisdom, entrepreneurship, economic dynamism, economic, cultural openness... Please, Mr. Mas, come back to reality – come back to reality – stop thinking about yourself, stop thinking about your party and think of 7_million_and_average Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.13.0	The parable is given by Mr Miquel Iceta, President of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Tuesdays, Mr. Mas, I often referred to you as "Mr. candidate– seemed to me to be the most appropriate–, I will also do so today, but I wanted to start my intervention by addressing, briefly, both the candidate and the very honourable President of the Generality in office, Arthur Mas and Gavarró, invested President of the Generality on 21 September 2012. The Catalonian Parliament invested him as president, on that very long date, and that's why – and because of his bad habit of advancing elections whenever he could – you are now President of the Generality in office. His term of office was extended to 2012, when he formally requested that, as President of the Generality in office, he did not perform any action related to the resolution adopted by this Parliament and was late for the Constitutional Court. A resolution that we have not doubted to qualify as the most important error made by a Catalan institution since 1977. A fearsome and highly hurt error for the Catalans and for our self-government. The institutions represent us all, and therefore no one, under any circumstances, can water our institutions out of the law, for many Members or citizens who ask for it, precisely because the institutions are of all and the only way to ensure that the institutions are of all – and must represent us all – is to respect the democratic legality from which their authority derives. Criticism of the resolution adopted by some of them is not a criticism that comes only from outside Catalonia: we are many of the Catalan voices that we have criticized and many of the voices that we have made from a deeply Catalanist feeling. It is a resolution that Enric Juliana described as "written with press for two students of COU between assembly and assembly – it is no longer the COU, I think, in fi. The editorial of La Vanguardia de dimarts spoke, I quote literally, of "unilateral declaration of hidden independence, and denounced that the text, and I quote literally, "is not just scoca with the Constitution in force, but situated on the margin of the European order, and qualified the day of dilluns to, again, open comets, "little, sad and unmanaged simulation of October 6, 1934. In coherence with this analysis, the first daily in Catalonia called for an urgent correction. The country's second daily newspaper, El Periodico de Catalunya, also added to its concern in its editorial dimarts stating that, and I quote literally, "the Parliament stands on the margin of any rule of the democratic game and cannot find any understanding of anyone in the joint venture of Spain, the European Union or the rest of the international community, tanco comets. No media caverns, no state locksmiths : La Vanguardia and El Periódico de Catalunya. I want to focus on this because no one can present the institutional conflict that we are experiencing as a new episode."Spain against Catalonia, second part. Many Catalans do not share what has been done. Three Catalan parliamentary groups were to appeal to the Emperor to the Constitutional Court before the Government of Spain did, and still much more citizens of Catalonia do not want the Catalan institutions to be outside the law, in rebellion, before the suspension agreed yesterday for unanimity by the Constitutional Court; a constitutional court that integrates, we recall, various ideological sensitivities, two Catalan magistrates – one of them, certainly, proposed for this Parliament on the proposal of the Convergence and Union Group. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, I urge you to be faithful to the mandate that came into effect on 21 September 2012 and to submeter 'his decision of the Constitutional Court, an institution before which you, as President of the Government, have submitted drawings of constitutional remedies and conflicts of jurisdiction since 2010 - I am telling you as President-in-Office, logically I am also telling you as a candidate. And now I'm strictly entering the investiture debate. Reiterating necessary – and I will be excused – some of the arguments I have already used in the Tuesday morning session. Nor is it that your intervention today, Mr. candidate, allows us to extend 'no other considerations, but some will. Mr. candidate, I told you on Tuesday, and I repeat today our three negatives: no independence, no illegality, and no investiture. Mr. Candidate, you haven't earned our trust, years on the contrary, you've lost it since 2010 when we were going to promote your first investiture through our abstention. First of all, you will not get our trust because you have explicitly given up making a government for all Catalans and Catalans. That statement is long overdue when I quote literally: "The government that I aspire to preside will be the government of Catalonia, with no more element than the adjective or the definition, a government for all, whether we have voted or not. Now you want to form an independentist government, integrated by independentists and thinking only of the independentists, and you say it often and proudly. It will allow me to subtract this fact to justify our negative vote. He won't get our confidence because his management in the last five years has been a broken round. Five years lost: no advent, no new project, no new big investment, no new competition, a disparate debt and, above all, important social details. Even so, at this time of government in office they are not willing to talk about how the purchasing power of public office workers was regained; but, in change, they do remain trusted personal contractors. He won't get our confidence because his only objective is independence, and he's unable to recognize that, even though he won the election, he lost the plebiscite in the words that you yourself had raised. Can't stop the country from independence with less than 50 percent of the votes. He will not gain our confidence in the illegal way he wants to take; to do so would cause the most serious damage to the self-government of Catalans and Catalans since 1977. His statement of the 2010 investment debate was also long overdue, when he said: "The government that I aspire to preside will have a high institutional sense. The government that you aspire to preside is instrumental in breaking with the first of all governing obligations, which is nothing other than to respect and enforce laws. He will not get our confidence because you, who are seeking support for his investment at any price, do so without the slightest guarantees of stability and coherence for government action, which is an absolute disarray in the current circumstances. Maybe I'll say again that it's unfair that we're talking about looking for support at any price, but the last few hours, and, after all, part of his intervention this morning, he showed us how far this is true. And now I'm gonna try to justify it, like everything I say is questionable. For the joint list, you accepted that a whole president of the Generality was presenting himself to the re-election of a quarter on a list. Now, to stay in charge, he's willing to have a diminished presidency. He goes on to say to us: "Do not suffer, it will last a little. No ducks, which are surrounded by vice presidents and commission delegates. It'll be a decorative, coral, polyphonic presidency, the one you want, and if I don't like, I'll be out in July. This is today's new one. I... don't worry, because I won't ask you to change our vote and do a question of monthly trust, no. Somehow, you're addressing a group in the chamber and you're saying, "You're going to be the ones you're running, even though you're out of government. You still have a limit to life, Mr. Candidate. Institutions are all citizens and the Presidency of the Generality is an institution itself. Jordi Pujol had it intact by Josep Tarradellas, who had kept it with honor and dignity long years from exile, who had rejected the hands of Josep Irla, successor to Lluís Companies, successor to Francesc Macià. We do not want to see how it is placed under the presidency, it is not the object of a raffle, it cannot be degraded or diminished. It does not deserve our history, it does not deserve our country, it does not deserve Catalans and Catalans, it does not deserve you, Mr. candidate, who is the hundred and twenty-nine president of the Generality of Catalonia. You, Mr. candidate, have divided Convergence and Union, have divided Catalonia and now want to divide with others the presidency. It's time to say something. See if to build a state they'll end up destroying the nation. If he is invested today, the price will have been too onerous; if he is not invested today, he asks him not to extend two more months above it. His obligation, as President-in-Office, is to preserve the character and institutional sense of the presidency, we ask him not to forget it. And, President, I also told you on Tuesdays – I forgive, yes, on Tuesdays in the mornings – that separating the investment of the majority of government operations is a risk that we cannot afford. You're right – you know I'm trying to find points of coincidence in all my interventions – when you say that provisionality is not good – it's not good – because of the problems the country has, not because of the need to set aside a suspended resolution for the Constitutional Court, but because of the problems that SEAT workers have, the more than half a million people still looking for employment, families who don't arrive at the end of the month, who can't cope with the costs of lighting, water and gas in winter... And it's true that you said, "It's that we've tried to do it sometimes and we didn't get out because they didn't leave us. But does that enable us to stop trying? Can we leave the great moment, the great day – the great day, they say to France – that everything will be all right with this happy archadia that promises us – and that it will never tell us how it is up there, or what is the cost – or should we be working, already, from now on, for the better of the concrete living conditions of Catalans and Catalans? And I also told him that there are things we can't solve for ourselves. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to share thoughts with the SEAT business committee. The problem they have cannot solve the Government of Catalonia alone, sense doubt; it must be done in close connection with the Government of Spain. This has to be done. Now, the Government of Catalonia can do a little more, it could do as the Government of Navarre did, which has moved to Germany to be interested in the continuity of investments. It is true that you could say to me: "We are in a functioning government, and this limits our ability to act. But much more limited will remain, do'much, if you persist with a path of lawlessness and total and absolute incapacity to negotiate with the Government of Spain. There's a lot of trouble they don't admit to waiting. There are problems related to the effort, which should be everyone's, to promote economic recovery and job creation. There are problems that they have to do with the sustainability of our public social protection systems of the health system and the education system. There are problems they have to see, yes, with concern about corruption, about tax fraud. The other day, therefore, we read with interest a news that stated that the objectives of the Catalan tax agency for the prosecution of tax fraud had not been fulfilled. It's a date we're worried about. To us, we would like to stand by and talk about these things and see if, among all of us, we are able to give them a better answer than the one they have rejected from their government. And, therefore, Mr President, we ask you: Please, this thought, this reflection, address it to the assembly of citizens and citizens of Catalonia, not only to whom you may have been deluded by a concrete political project, but to all those who are concerned about your personal, family or collective situation. We are not in the position to undertake a returnless path from which only problems can arise for our country, for our fellow citizens and for our civil servants. It is for all this, Mr. candidate, that our group will not hold his trust. We think you don't deserve it, and we think the path you're pointing at will be highly damaging to the country's future, if you pull forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.15.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell, president of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.16.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to everyone and everyone. Well, all the more so, let me mention the first words, also, to illustrate the event of the day: the decision, the resolution of the Constitutional Court reacting to the statement voted on by a few, not by any chance, less problematic. And I refer to it in the sense that confirms one of our main concerns, and it is that because of an institutional shock we will not solve the situation that we have raised. We are in these particularly proud and proud circumstances that our partners and friends in the State are holding back, just when there is an extraordinary criticism around this situation and it is demanding hard hand, so that with insistence and courage in front of a public opinion, better said, published, that the only way out is the dialog and that the most appropriate way out is to give the word to the citizenry of Catalonia. I'll talk more about it later, but go ahead, so say hello to our friends in the state who can handle what's not easy to hold. Well, to come to the investiture debate, the Tuesday debates were enlightening in many respects, but they confirmed to us, as today confirms to us the presentation made by the Lord But, once again, our decision, as you know, not to support the investiture that he proposes to us. I will not repeat, because they do not go up, the arguments that they have to see, that we have already exposed enough, with our vision deeply critical about the trajectory of the successful governments of Democratic Convergence and that somehow they weigh in this debate, and in what way. But I would like to go back on the main condition that continues to weigh on this debate and that, somehow, rares it and the condition, the one that determines, that this famous resolution of disconnection voted on the diluns – that, as our company Gemma Lienas says very well, that disconnection is a euphemism, not to say neolingua, and that it makes her think more quickly about the disconnection of a terminal illness – and that it is a way to avoid talking frankly about what is on the side of the table. Is there a democratic mandate to set up a unilateral break-up process with Spain? That's the real question we've raised. And we have two clear things from the debate of the sun. The first, that the full route that marks this resolution and the government that commits to it, and if it's that eventually some of this room, we can go through a lot of places – we can go through a lot of places. And we don't like to go into catastrophic debates or terrible scenes, we don't like to do political-fiction, but one thing is clear: that the only place where we won't last this full road is to a Catalan republic – the only place where we won't last this full road is to a Catalan republic, neither with Captain Mas, nor with the countermasters' equipment and heads of understanding that he has proposed to us. In fact, with this full road we are already entering a paralysis, an institutional shock and a difficulty in confecting a government; a difficulty that you have to see, beyond parliamentary peripheries or, even so, through these parliamentary peripheries, with a reality: if there is no government of disconnection it is because in the background in Catalonia there is no social majority for disconnection. In the background, this is the real political problem. And if there is any disobedience in the way– I also remembered yesterday our company Joan Coscubiela on television–, if there is an act of disobedience that is practiced by the current government in function, is the disobedience to the resolution of the payment pending when you will function of the Generality of Catalonia, pays that still..., that you are already charging other functions and that here, those of our house, do not. Well, before this situation, the Spanish state's hands are screwed by Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Rivera, because finally this debate and this government are working and this way they are turning into the best campaign committee of Mr. Rajoy – the best campaign committee. They don't need and above all they didn't really explain what their government's balance is, to Mr. Rajoy..., and to Mr. Rivera exactly not explaining what his social program is with all the details. They are ready to comment on the Catalan ordago day. And it was to be hoped that until the 20th of September, for this powerless line of statements, but unable to pull them out and realize them, we have, day by day, a growing number of measures, threats, dispositions, legal initiatives, today, one, tomorrow, the answer, the reaction... and, thus, this can replace the political campaign of the general elections. As I say, luckily there have been, there have been progressives of the Spanish society – the companies of Podemos, but many other formations: Commitment to the Valencia Country, the Aragonese Chunta, United Left, the companies of Galicia -, which, despite all this situation, are appealing to the democratic consciousness of the Spanish citizenry, which, this yes, has already begun to feel the cry of the Catalan citizenry. And indeed, the fact that hundreds and millions of people have gone to the street to claim rights for Catalonia has had its impacts and has begun to have effects on the democratic consciousness of Spanish citizens. But just this runaway in the first place, along with weaving links and links with this hopeful reaction, what it does is to stop them – stop them – from the right Spanish nationalist more quickly. That's the political problem we have. Look, we are convinced that there will be no democratic breakthrough in this country without the building of a broad consensus, a broad and solid social majority in Catalonia. Just so, the resolution that was proposed to us diluns and the government that would come out of it with this majority. First, because those who have led the social impoverishment policies of these last years lack credibility and capacity to water and unify the people, but neither have credibility for what it does to corruption, nor, as I said, because there is no city mandate for unilateral rupture. And above all, I insist on this aspect, because they are not seeking and they are not seeking complicity and alliances. Look, those of us who come from an experience or experience of social movements, of labor movements, of venous movements, we're after a few things at the back of a bunch of ticks, many of them, huh? [[Rialles.]] And it is that to lead a struggle, to lead a conflict, to lead a claim, first to formulate objectives that unify; second, to keep your people united; third, to wrap it up with solidarity, with complicity in its professional, venenal, civic, people's environment; third, to seek alliances, and fourth, to soften and divide the adversary, instead of strengthening him. Exactly the opposite of what they're proposing to us here, exactly the opposite. [[Some applause.]] The other day, after all, it seemed that he wanted to make a dissolution of Parliament and to replace it almost by an assembly of the seventy-two independenceists, with which we joked and said: "We don't know if they will do it to Can Vies or to the Majestic, the assembly. [[Rialles.]] But the reality is that the political problem that is arising in this debate is the disconnection with the complex and varied reality of Catalan society. It's a little something Enric Juliana, quoted earlier, said in an article "the petty-bourgeois radicalization. A little, the program you're proposing is a little Mr. Esteve's program, huh? , of the botiga de La Puntual : « Slow in the words, impotent in the fets. And here I would remind them, with less grandioseness than quoting Kennedy or Thomas Jefferson or Lincoln, or even Augustine, so, something that appears in the culture of Barrel Cinema, when we were little ones, to what John Wayne said, right? , to the movies, always, when he was getting a mastgot on the cow, a little bonfire, and said to him, "Nano, don't pass the revamp if you're not willing to use it. So one thing is what you do: threaten, store, but don't donate. And when you threaten and don't give, what sees you is an impressive mastegot. Allow me to end with two reflections according to what has been said before, on the right to decide and on the famous subject of disobedience. Mr. Turull told us on Tuesday: "Some talk about the right to decide – and he looked at us – "but we exercise it. Home, maybe they don't exercise it on us. The right to decide is a right to collect, maybe we all participate in this right to decide. And that's the problem we have raised. The other day she was also in this debate, and I think she was Mrs. Arrimadas, who was making a little joke about this right to decide, she says, "What do you mean? That with this they can decide what they want to do, and those of Sant Cugat? No, the Hospitallet and the Sant Cugat and the Cascajos de la Sierra, if you want, or the Villa Arriba, are very well appointed people and will want to decide about the things that affect them. These will be followed by the proclamation of a republic of the Hospitallet, or of Sant Cugat del Vallès, or of Badia. What has been raised is an undeniable political fact, that there is a national reality that is calling for a democratic exit. And that's the problem we have raised. And the problem we have dealt with cannot be solved only with legal invocations. The ancient Roman jurists say that without justice there is no right, which means that because there is a right, a legal order that works it is necessary to listen to the democratic pulse and the company's advent. And that's what we have right now. Can I disobey everything? Look, our laws believe that they are, in principle, actually to obey them, but also to interpret them, to modulate their application, to reform them, and sometimes also to disobey them. You think that, if you are sitting here, if Mrs. Arrimadas is sitting here, it is because she is sitting in an institution conquered by disobedience – conquered by disobedience – that she does not emanate from the Spanish Constitution; she is one of the few institutions in this country that emanates from a republican legitimacy, conquered by mobilization, by the people of Catalonia, and, singularly, by such powerful venous movements that three Franco-mayor mayors were killed in the middle of the dictatorship and that they were needed to turn Tarradellas, which is a very important, democratic concession to the city of Catalonia. Disobedience bears its fruits and is the mother of democracy. Naturally, disobedience and the limits of disobedience are where you are willing to assume all the consequences. When we go to stop denunciations, we assume the consequences of our disobedience. And here's the political problem: is he willing to assume what and to what extent? This is the problem we have raised. Therefore, we do not believe absolutely in the capabilities of a government of disconnection. Part of his strength was to show a lot of decisions – from this government, from disconnection – to stay away when we disobey. I remember, for example, at the time that Mr. Felipe Puig was at the head of the Interior Council, when we were at Plaza Catalunya, the 15-M, huh? Then let's just say that the disobedients were in another band, huh? And it is not clear that these very people are willing to keep the same heart in another paper. But above all – above all – these policies, these political forces, these quads, these leaders, are unable to arouse popular adherence and the necessary complicity. I have just said that what we need now is a government that is sarge of the country, that recomposes the social majority in favor of the referendum and that it knows how to attract the sympathies of the Spanish democratic public opinion, instead of putting it in the arms of the right hand. That is why, for all these reasons, and with this perspective and with the hope that, in effect, we will be able to arouse and generate this democratic majority, we will vote 'no to the investiture of Artur Mas'. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.17.0	The parable is given by the illustrious Mr Xavier García Albiol, president of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.18.0	Madam President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr President in office of the Generalitat and candidate, Councillors, Councillors..., I would like to start my speech today by reiterating the request we made from the Group of the People's Party of Catalonia to the President of Parliament, which is nothing other than in relation to the resolution adopted yesterday by the Constitutional Court, on the basis of the adoption of the agreement that was made last Monday in this Parliament of Catalonia, in which clearly an agreement was approved which aims to break Catalonia with the rest of Spain, and on the basis of that resolution of yesterday afternoon of the Constitutional Court we believe everything necessary, in order to guarantee the stability of this Parliament and to give tranquillity to all the men and women of Catalonia, which both the President of Parliament and the President in office of the Generalitat publicly comply with the resolution that the Constitutional Court stated yesterday. I therefore ask you to comply with this resolution before the end of this session. From here, Mr. candidate, ladies and gentlemen, I want you to make a series of reflections. Some, surely, can be shared by Members who do not defend a rupturist project, do not defend an independence project... but who have an important content. And I'm specifically referring to the events that happened, and I said that a moment ago, yesterday late with the resolution of the Constitutional Court. To me, Mr. President, Mr. Candidate in this case, I am surprised. I'm surprised that you, who are vested with this authority as President of the Generality, haven't even had a few words to value what happened... Now, tell me you'll do it now. Well, he'll do it now. So I'm black, which I've decided to do now. But it seems to me that it is of such magnitude, that yesterday decided the Constitutional, as because the first words of his intervention anessin in the direction of putting light in this situation of institutional and legal insecurity that is seen in Catalonia at these times. Yesterday we were going to be able to listen, Mr. candidate, to the vice president; we were going to be able to listen to Mrs. Munté. And Mrs. Munté said, well, with a little bit of a scare, huh? Tremulous, so a mike... that, well, he only obeyed the laws of Parliament. Yes, I saw her – I saw her –, Mrs. Munté, huh? I didn't know how to get out of it. And you answered in a question of a means of communication that only obeyed the laws emanating from the Parliament of Catalonia. Does that mean, Mrs. Munté, that from this government that we already have Catalans at this time do not comply with the criteria set by the directives of the European Union? You mean the Civil Code doesn't apply here in Catalonia? You mean the Penal Code won't apply? You're telling us that? Because if we have to make reference to what you said yesterday, that only and exclusively we are dealing with a legal framework that is the property of Catalonia, as if the rest, the one that passes around us, do not affect us, it seems to me that we go hard..., and put in coherence..., and lay on the table that we are in front of a government that, speaking in nautical terms, has lost the north. At the length of the first investiture day it became quite clear that the president in office and the candidate, Mr. Mas, did not have a majority in the chamber at these times. On Tuesday, the CUP told him for the first time that I would not support him. I also have to tell you that after listening to your intervention, and one who knows how to read between lines, I honestly believe that this agreement with the UPC, with the most radical left-wing party in Europe, is very close. I'm sure it won't be today. But on the basis of his intervention... and that he came here to explain a conversation and some negotiations, to give us an explanation of private negotiations between two political parties, without anyone asking him for it at the moment, and you go here to give us an explanation... surely it's not a free event. Surely he obeys one of the impossions, of the very many impossions, that with which you were gathered yesterday they put him on the table. But, at times, Mr. But, more than it already seems that they have enough on their way, he would have to ask himself how it is possible that the rest of the political formations, with the placements that you put on the table at these times, would not want to give him support. Did he start thinking about it? How is that possible? I would like to remind you, Mr Mas, that both Citizens and the Socialist Party, if you change approaches, if you abandon the independence drift, have offered to give stability in this Parliament. And I repeat what I told you on Tuesday: I already understand that with us you don't want to know anything. I don't share it, but I understand. But it was offered by Citizens if he changed his mind; the Socialist Party, by active and passive. And you continue with the will to try to govern only for a part of the Catalans, those who defend their postulates, those who defend their runaway project of Catalonia with the rest of Spain, leaving aside the rest, that we feel deeply Catalan and deeply Spanish. The one we could see, and I have to say it with a lot of pain, huh? Mr. But, it's... we see that you, in a change from being President of the Generality, to getting the support of the extreme radical left, are able to devalue the institution of the Presidency of the Generality absolutely by converting it almost into a symbolic presidency. You said the other day, and I return to give the reason: "We live a historical moment, a moment that will be remembered by many years. That's right. And you're going to go to history for devaluing and getting to humiliate the institution of the presidency with what you set us up with today. Up to what point, Mr. More, are you willing to regale the value of the presidency of the Generality, including to empty it of contents? It doesn't matter, the party you're president of, the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, was..., was the party of the system in Catalonia for thirty years. Today, what has been the system's party in Catalonia for thirty years is what calls for an agreement with the anti-systems that we have at these times in Catalonia, and certainly the most contained in its ideology of the European joint. It seems deeply regrettable to me, this situation. And it seems to me regrettable to see how you came here to explain how the conversation went yesterday with the members, with the deputies, or with the leaders, of the CUP. That we are told that the important thing is to withdraw the legislature, and he has said it twice, "the important thing is to withdraw the legislature. But the next day, Mr. Mas, what's going to happen? Your thoughts... When you said to us on Tuesday: "No, look, listen, we're leaving the legislature with the CUP, and then, well, the People's Party, or the Socialist Party, or Ciutadans, will already vote for us every day. It seems to you, Mr. But, what is this responsible for? You did say that, Mr. More. Yes, he did – yes, he did. And he said to us, "What you can't do with the People's Party, or the rest of the political parties, is ask us to give up our break-up project, our independence project. Do you think this is presentable? Do you believe that Catalonia, so long as you are president, can be in the hands, at the investiture, of a party, in this case of the CUP, without being able to guarantee day to day from that moment on? No way we can guarantee social policies? Can't we guarantee industrial policies to create jobs? No way we can guarantee the health services? Does it seem to you that this is reasonable and that this is going to be? Honestly, I have to say no. Because the only one we've listened to in these days, Mr. candidate, Mr. Mas, the majority of the Democratic Convergence, and also of the Republican Left, is that the answer to the problems of the waiting list to public health is 'independence; the answer to the lack of places, for example, to residences for the great people of the Catalan Republic; the answer to the fact that at these times thousands of students are studying in barracks is 'trench with Spain'. Is this a country project? This is a project that needs Catalonia by the year 2015, in a European Union where the regions, where the countries, work intensively to get out of the economic crisis that has punished us in the past seven, eight, years? Do you think this is the alternative of government that Catalonia needs at these times? Honestly, I have to say no. And what I'm sorry for is seeing the inconsistency of your words so that it's what you want: President of the Generality. Even though this means that the CUPs every six months have to examine it through a trusted motion. As far as we can get, Mr.Artur Mas, that the institution of the Presidency of the Generality is to lend itself to these papers? As far as we can get, is the institution of the President of the Generalitat going to lend itself to these papers? Because, look, here's a question. If you continue on this path, if you and your travel companies continue on this path... When some speak of whether the Government of Spain, or determined court..., will suspend Catalan autonomy, because the Government of Spain has an obsession, according to you, with suspending Catalan autonomy, I want to tell you, Mr. Mas, that here the only one who has decided to suspend Catalan autonomy, by placing himself outside the Statute and by placing himself outside the Spanish Constitution, is you. Because the legal framework that in this country ensures that Catalonia can enjoy the most important autonomy that any region in the European Union currently enjoys are our main laws, which are the Spanish Constitution and the Statue of Autonomy, those that you, with your attitude and with your fellow travellers, want to fly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.19.0	The words of Mr. Antonio Baños, president of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.20.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. García Albiol, we're very upset. All the morning you're asking us to tell you whether or not we're happy with the Constitutional Court's ruling, and no one's made any case. Well, we'll give him fish: we, the deputates of the CUP - Creed Constituent, not the acatamo. It's here. That's what we've got. And he also told this bench that "they don't go on this path–" they don't go on this path. We also gave it to him: we'll go this way. See, some unexpected allies, sometimes, have, no, Mr. Albiol? We've done it for you. Well, we're short, in this intervention, since our vote is decided, and we think we all have a lot of work to do; if everyone does, I think this is the task they've asked us to do. The CUP - Crida Constituent will vote that "no to the candidacy of Artur Mas. It's a "no," but it's a "not quiet." Today we do not have the certainty that the 'yes, the 'yes important, the 'yes to the republic, neither is it debated, nor is it finished or exhausted this morning. It is a ‘not quiet, fruit of the coherence of our promises. Electoral promises, too. That's right. But not just that. It's a ‘no that doesn't lock the door, but it stimulates you to go further, to be more people and to be more people in a firmer and more solid way. It's not a "no wrinkle." The underlying arguments of this "we didn't expose them the past Tuesday, and I don't think we need to say them again. But today we don't have any arguments either, which are the offer you put on the table today and which we want to value, even though it's still short. It's a move, I'm sure. It's the first move you make and you make us together for the Yes. As such, we value it; we value that the thing is mogui. And this is always interesting in a negotiation and in a dynamic in which we have to find agreements. And that's what we all agree with. But it does not respond to our greatest concern, which is to exaggerate the social majority in defense and construction of the new country. We believe that this aspect, that it is central and basic and that it is for which we are moving, this offer not the solution. It is a proposal that we believe is nothing more than a reworking – a more creative elaboration, that is true – of the government agreements that they already had with Esquerra, and that is why we do not find it as an offer or a consensus, or an offer that we can use to expand this social base. It's an offer that, of all kinds, we find things that are interesting. To us the idea of the motion of trust is close to an idea – the idea of debate, of taxation and of collectivity, and so on – which we find very necessary and which we have always laid on the table. I mean, we think it's an insufficient offer, but it's a first offer and it has aspects that we would like to keep to value them and to leave them on the table in future offers that you, I hope, make to the country. We have the compromise, which we want to make clear right now, that we don't fall into paramies that often pose to us or, better said, that we often pose to ourselves always in an unnecessary way and always without sightings. There are no good and painful independenceists – for one part of the chamber we are all suffering, that is clear – but there are no facilitators and entrepreneurs independenceists either. We don't fall into the danger of dividing – we don't fall into this danger of dividing or dividing – because the object is common, the object is irreversible, it's indispensable and, besides, we have to touch it. And we say it now and here, that we have voted not to, yes, Mr. Rull, we have to touch it, even though we give ‘not to this proposal and ‘not to this investiture' – to touch. We're missing work and we're missing agreement, but we have to touch it, and we won't let it go, that's for sure. Today's "uneasy" is also a "not to enter unnecessary bars, counter-declarations, two pits and scenes that do not carry us in place. We know perfectly – perfectly – that the historical fever of the struggle for the freedom of our people has been discord at key moments. We know that and we also know that because we come from the left and we know that this lack of unity has been absolutely lethal for the popular classes of this country; so no one gives us any lessons about what unity and its value is. Creating sound doesn't help – as the saying goes: "Our evil doesn't want to sound; to point out guilt in a little rational way isn't one: public gestures, accusations between us – we all know very well – please Madrid very much, but we love it. Witch hunts have never served as nothing. Things aren't like that. Or, at least, the CUP and the political culture of which we are proud heretics, we do not do so. We believe in loyalty in negotiations, we believe in the gifted word, and we believe, above all, to return there, to return there and to return there. And, certainly, a little more respect for the CUP - Constituent Creed, which we are the only strength of the hemicicle that is not judged by corruption, that we have not... [[Greetings, remorse of voices.]] Mr. Jordi Cañas...? It's not... well, and Republican Left. [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, of course. Well... an organization... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.21.0	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.22.0	Forgive the pests... – Forgive the pests...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.23.0	Respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.24.0	I see that some raise their hands and others do not raise their hands. So we could have a very interesting debate about who uses politics to do business and who to transform the country. Let us say that we come from a political culture where we have never had any time or gain to be victims; let us not complain, let us explain. We don't cry, and in dark or complicated times, like this, we bet to talk and work. It's a tough time because, we don't forget, the Spanish State has chosen, and it's no surprise, to deploy what the "Aranzadi Brigade" says and which will lead us to a very unpleasant pulse, but that we will win, between democracy and our legitimacy and an absolutely democratic State. During the campaign we meant... we said a lot of things, but one thing we insisted on is that we didn't go into parliamentary politics to be no-one's cross-border. We must confess, with all the evil of our heart, that we still ask ourselves to be cross-border when we believe – we sincerely believe – that we can have a much more constructive, much more active role in this historical process. To the campaign we said that what we wanted to be is a spring, a guarantee that this, that the republic and the process would arrive more far, more solidly and stronger at its destination. The soft ones are tense, it's true, but we're tense to move forward, not to break. We're afraid to do things well, not to do tactical and spurious victories. Tension to escape a lethal political culture that does not help us: that of victories and defeats in party clau. Here we won't win or lose each other, we'll win all or the end will be all. We have to strictly carry out the democratic mandate of this legislature, which was not the name of a person – we have always said this – but had an unequivocal word: independence, republic. We're not immobilizers, Mr. President. What we don't want is to move 'in a predetermined sense, we don't want to move 'in places we don't see as solid or as convincing, that's legitimate. The CUP has not stopped moving's, Mr President, the CUP is always soft. Looking for solutions, we propose and offer proposals and understandings, as always, and they have all our time and all our will to seek these agreements. "By the way of the facts it's like we're moving us, too," you said. Facts, decisions are important at this time, it's true, but moving forward through facts consumed or donating for girls things that aren't solid enough or compact enough, I think it makes us happy and separates us. We reject, from this moment on, the dialectic of victory and defeat in party clau. The victory, we insist, is all, and the defeat will also be. Deia la senyora Arrimadas: "Don't hand Catalonia over to the CUP! Mr. But, no, you don't, you don't have to hand us Catalonia or give us any prizes. The Catalonia for which we fight, we win it a little bit, with ant work, from the joints and from the streets; we do not want a gift and, Mrs. Arrimadas, calm, because Catalonia we will transform it a little bit and in the streets, not by granting a political party. Faced with this situation, which we see as complex but in no final case, we, and so on, are glued to the negotiating table. We wanted to say to the press during the campaign: the CUP has always been and will be the last to rise from the table. It is our political culture, often ridiculed and constantly banalized by so many people, the political culture of assembly, agreement, debate, respect for dissent in the search for consensus. So we have always understood politics: listening, reasoning, but not obeying. You... – and now to end, for sure, we will make you an offer, not a specific offer, but an offer of more expanse, of those we like to make – you are the majority group and unequivocally have won the elections, and you have the responsibility to form government, no one is arguing about this. But, we are surprised, and wanted to make them reflect on what they are looking for, they are evil for a temporary, weak majority – we believe – of sixty-four Members because they have sixty-two, when the real need for this country, the real need for this process is, has been and still is, a majority of seventy-two. We, he was pale the other day, we believe, in this majority of seventy-two. Stable, firm and that allows us, therefore, to save – I feel it, I can't dodge the marine half-hours because I have much to do with, Mr President – to save with the Catalan Republic at a time. We have all our time to reach a solid agreement to form governments, and in this work we are totally compromised because we believe – and we say it seriously – that early elections are reactionary, not revolutionary. The anticipations will never be our option or our proposal, we will never put them on the table as a plausible scene. Glues to the negotiating table, that's how we are and how we tend. And tell the country that has, besides, the body, the color, the pit and the head of the CUP to defend the Catalan institutions and the republic are born before the attack of this Spanish demophobic state and guided exclusively for the defense of interests over the defense of the rights and freedoms of people, whether or not they are Catalan. "Let's govern ourselves together, we demand the ANC. So, let's do it, but let's do it with laziness and open-mindedness. Seventy-two of us will be disobedient together, and we'll get out of here folded. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.25.0	Next, there is the illustrious lady Marta Rovira, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.26.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, I will begin my intervention aimed at putting into value the majority democratic mandate of the past elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, obviously passing on some obviations, but I think they are necessary today. Because I made it clear, but very clear, that before you were independent we were democrats. On 27 September, Catalonia held democratic and legal elections and no one – anyone – questioned the outcome of these elections. In fact, the constitution of this Parliament is its main validation and acceptance of the result. From elections held according to law and legitimacy from a democratic point of view, different democratic mandates can emerge – different – depending on sums, majorities and parliamentary arithmetic, the sum of escons, obviously. On 9 November Parliament adopted a resolution which noted one of these arithmetical sums: the majority democratic mandate in favour of independence, an absolute majority of escons. He'd been through before. Another obvious feature is the democratic mandate of the ballot box, the support of the majority of citizens in favour of an electoral programme, political objectives: this is the democratic contract. No one ever challenged the electoral program with which we presented Junts for the Yes or the CUP – a clearly independent electoral program –: no one ever challenged it. On 27 September, this election program made it clear that it wanted to get the support in escons in this Parliament and, if that were to happen, we would start a path to an independent state, to a republic. Another obvious thing, the valid program, the legal and legitimate elections, a parliamentary majority of escons, a democratic contract, that's what popular sovereignty is called. Accept the rules of the democratic game, accept them, accept the parliamentary sums that derive from this rules of the democratic game. We have assumed this legal and legitimate contract, it is our duty, we must. And that's why the deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes and the CUP, between this democratic contract that we have hired the deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes and the CUP can't stand up to any court or one. If a court were to make a judgment on the political content of a resolution of this Parliament for which we have a legal and legitimate mandate – a judgment that would be extemporary, because in no case did the electoral program question – it would be making an improper judgment of the democratic principle. With the suspension of a resolution that notes a democratic mandate; we understand that what is suspended here is democracy: a suspension in democracy. If you call on Article 1.2 of the Spanish Constitution, as you felt in this debate at the previous session, to say that sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, we call on Article 1.2 of the Charter of United Nations, which universally proclaims the right of self-determination of all peoples in terms of equality. You, Article 1.2 of the Spanish Constitution; we, Article 1.2 of the Charter of United Nations: all people have the right to decide the political framework that corresponds to them, all people have the right to establish freely their political condition and their economic, social and cultural development. The Spanish Constitution does not prohibit it nor can it prohibit it, the right to self-determination of peoples, nor can it prohibit a government, nor you with an interested interpretation of the Constitution. The democratic principle has no Spanish patent, it has universal patent. In the name of freedom we cannot feel... (Applause), in the name of freedom we cannot feel that the democratic principle is contrary to the constitutional mark, we cannot feel it, this form part of a past, already. Western states have evolved and resolved their conflicts, all by democratic means. And we've tried everything because here you're settling with an agreement and by democratic means. But this is how we got the democratic mandate with which we are compromised by the deputies and deputies of Juntes for the Yes, through democratic, legal and legitimate elections. And I think I can say that, together with other Members and Members of this House, the mandate is a majority. We don't do anything extraordinary that we haven't done before other states, it's true – it's true – even though every independence process is a world. Each is conditioned by an institutional and political framework in which the International Court of Justice has recently defined the following way, and read it literally: "During the second half of the 20th century, there have been cases of us who have exercised the right to self-determination in the sense that the exercise of the right of revenge motivated by decolonization or by the nature of imperialism, and read it literally; the opinion continues to say that the right to self-determination of peoples has evolved, and that against this evolution there has been no rule or custom in the international order that has prohibited these new practices. Therefore, the international order is in favour of a majority will of a people, who decides to overcome a legal and political _framework through a radically democratic process. And to us who do not come to us with any lessons of legality, when here we have a state that repeatedly incompletes it with feelings and reads to the hand. Sentences on university scholarships, on transposition, that would allow you to be in a better position; Sentences of transpositions of 0.7 of the IRPF; the Law of Dependence; failure of all and each of the financing pacts, all, of the third additional provision of the Statute, flagrant failure of that law that fits with the State, the Statute of Autonomy. Who can give us lessons in democracy and legality? Once you clarify the foundations of the mandate to which some owe us, I don't want to miss the opportunity to explain why some think independence is the only viable option. The Spanish State, in fact, does not offer us any more. There are many citizens in our country who have become independent after asking themselves a question and seeing the answer. And the question is, what is the project that the Spanish State is offering to the citizens of Catalonia? What's that? - What's that? The answer is long and, yes, it is full of prejudices, complaints, deficiencies and inequalities, and it must be critical and valid to explain it. A very different attitude from victimism that some sometimes blame us for. Denouncing a state and defending independence is not the easy way, it is the difficult way, quite different from the unionist parties of this chamber that these days, in these investment debates, have preferred to criticize and oppose independence for the easy way, with many disarrays, that do not explain to us what the objective is, what is the project they offer for Catalonia in the State. They haven't explained it to us – they haven't explained it to us. What's that? - What's that? Some have come to say that we are already politically, even at the level of economic resources; but that we are socially patented, without making any kind of relationship of this social suffering to the patience and institutional, political, economic or financial scanning caused by the fiscal deficit, tax fraud or growing inequalities. What political project do they offer from the State to Catalonia? I'll tell you what. We live in a state that every time there is a political debate that affects the interests of the great oligopólicas, both the PP, as well as the PSOE, as Ciutadans turn their eyes to another side. A state that signs a minor contract that covers the risk of inversion to a Florentino Pérez company and ends up paying 1,350_million euros for Castor's tank ; while the PP, the PSOE and Ciutadans looking to another side. A Spanish government... (Applause.) A Spanish government that brings forward legislation that imposes on solar energy producers, when the rest of Europe is forcing electricity to pay for private producers. Why do the PSOE, the PP or Citizens defend systematically Endesa? Why is the Spanish Government, with its political courts, obsessed with forbidding the Catalonian Parliament to take steps to put the poor at risk? Why? Who can hear a court suspend democratic instruments to help those who suffer the most in our country? And we could talk about the tariff deficit... (Applause), the deficit of the high-speed train network, and to whom they have ended up benefiting, the rescue of Bankia, or the Spanish ministries in Education and Greetings who do not have competence, but a cart of supposition, you know why. And the PSOE, the PP and Citizens say, practically every day, that independence is a smokescreen. This speech is easy, and it takes pages and paper pages. And I think that the PSOE and the PP, and Ciutadans, are constantly talking about nationalism, precisely because we don't have to talk about the Castor, because we don't have to talk about energy self-consumption, because we don't have to talk about Endesa, because we don't have to talk about the decree on energy poverty... [[Greetings.]] Are you sure that someone can come to the conclusion that the Spanish State will change thanks to the PSOE, the PP or Citizens? Really? - Really? But if what they are is the same state. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.27.0	Ladies and gentlemen, respect the order of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.28.0	That said, that none of us who defend that here is built a Catalan republic among all of us, and for all of us, evade our responsibility. Don't do it. We are well aware that putting institutions in the service of the citizens will not be easy. And it is true that there will also be many actors in Catalonia who will do their best to make it difficult. But I am convinced that, despite all the tensions that the process has, we will prevail over the general interest. That's why we're fighting for: a Catalan republic or an independent state or continuing within a Spanish state that seems irreformable to us. Without a doubt, we will fight because here an independent state, because this mandate that we have rejected from the ballot boxes is better for the benefit of everyone and for everyone. Today we attended the second session of the investiture panel. A second session at which President Mas, the candidate of all the deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes, made a concrete proposal to us. A concrete proposal after listening to all of us, talking. A concrete proposal that goes beyond just putting in value this majority of seventy-two Members of Parliament. It is very good that we have a majority in Parliament here, it is a brutal step, we have never had it before, and we have to put it in value and we have to exercise it, and we have to approve as many resolutions as it takes to defend this democratic and legal mandate that we have on the table. But we don't do enough with this. We are not here to make statements, we are here to implement this democratic mandate, and that is why we also need to take our own steps. And to take our own steps, we need a plural, strong, solid government that takes a clear objective, that we are here to make the democratic transition more important than the history of Europe these last few years, and that we are here to make it very important who are the social priorities in the first place in our country. We don't do enough just with a majority of Parliamentarians, even though we're also very aware that we all need each other, all of us, all of us – all of us. And for us, it is a privilege that this "all keep that one day we can gather the Majestic, the Palau de la Generalitat, Can Vies, passing through their unions, going through popular, social, or republican athenaeums, or, finally, some of their organization that in this country has led the independence movement. For us, this is a fate and it is a privilege, and we know, Mr. Rabell, that for you too, because we come from the street, we come from the same place, we come from the fights... [[remorse of the voice]] , of the normal and peaceful people of this country; we know for you the richness, [[applause]] plurality is also a value – it is also a value – as well. That's why..., that's why you're independent or we don't always value diversity, plurality as the main construction of social cohesion. And Mr. Rabell explained it very well at the first session of this parliamentary debate: social cohesion is what we want the construction of this process to be, not subordinated, that our citizens have decided that it begins now, today, here, for which we have this mandate; it is now that we have it, today that we have it. And that's why we, today, value the words Antonio Baños made, on behalf of the CUP, value them; we value that you say that "they are stuck in the negotiating table, too. Because that's what we have in our hands never had before, ever. And we need to work hard and talk and keep talking to find a good deal. It seems to us that what the President has presented today is a good agreement; that he is already going to have assured us, to have spoken and to have dialogue. It is a proposal that will put back some of the applications already made on this negotiating table. It is a proposal that points out what can be a future government, what can be, at last, a future model of governance in our country, a plural government, a transversal government, a broad government, with a president who shares responsibility and delegate responsibility to four or three more presidents. A more economic and social president; a president dedicated to the welfare state; a president dedicated to external action, at the institutional level, to transparency. A less presidential government, a government with a clearly matrix organization, more solidarity. It's an innovation and it points to a future model. We believe that we must continue to explore in our discussions this proposal we have on the table. We understand that the CUP and we celebrate that the CUP also sees it so and, at the same time, we value it very positively that we say that it also values the possibility of reaching an agreement on parliamentary stability, because if we do not do enough with a statement, if we do not only do enough with the majority in Parliament, if we need a strong government, it is also certain that this strong government needs to take its own steps, which will give in its parliament the root of the process constitute, the debate on the most important laws, legal transition, public hysteria, social security..., we would celebrate it here, all of you, and it will be impulsed from the Parliament, but also – it will – it will be possible for us to implement sufficient powers of culture. President But does not devalue anything, with this proposal. He felt it, didn't he? , many spokespersons and many group presidents said that with this new proposal that today puts us on the table devalues the institution of the Generality, it devalues itself..., does not devalue anything. The President But what he has done here is exactly what we have seen him do for the last three years: try to facilitate with innovative proposals and alternatives..., try to facilitate that, at institutional level, we can give compliment to what we have from the ballot boxes, those democratic mandates. And it's funny to hear that President Mas devalues the institution, devalues the Generality, by the mouth of those who finish his speech telling them to suspend our autonomy, as if they had to protect even more and respect this Generality or this institution even more. A contradiction in all terms. You can't accuse President Mas of devaluing the institution and, in the end, end up threatening us with a suspension of autonomy. President Mas facilitates and looks for a way to give the exit to a democratic mandate through one of the instruments we need strongly and solidly as the Government of the Generality. A democratic mandate that calls upon the President But as he asks us all and each of the deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes. A democratic mandate which we have been questioning now, which has also been questioning us for the last three years, which with a majority in Parliament we have tried, in the same way, seeking formulas, to give it a compliment. A democratic mandate that for the last three years was vast and majority also in this chamber, that was a democratic mandate in favour of the right to decide, and that we have tried to complete it with writing and in the way that the mature and democratic states complete Europe in this century that we are, that is through a political agreement. I am very much in favour of facilitating the completion of democratic mandates. The dew we have, I think, all of us here. I have a lot more to say, but I'm running out of time. And as I suppose they'd respect me... the last few minutes, I want to dedicate them to explaining to them that they come from a family that has put their children to work with fourteen years—with fourteen years—seven years and divided hours, until he erased them from the TVs, making them brush blood. I come from a family that put their daughters to study trade, because that's where the law gave the girls to study. I come from a family that... these kids and girls, they've grown up, they've been trying to get their kids, 14 years old, to never get to work, but they can study. I come from a family that has sought that their daughters should not do what they played, but that, like women, they can work, develop and choose their future. And these children of the children of the children, who are now us, here today, we have at our hands the opportunity of opportunities, which is to seek that our children, who are already fourteen years old, are more or less in shape and have the fate of forming as a minimum until they divide, when they do not have to leave. And those of us who are here today and have this opportunity in our hands, we can also make our daughters, who live in this century, in the midst of crisis, can sort out what they want to do, and not just assume the role that reserves them an economic and social crisis suffocating. This opportunity, which is the opportunity of opportunities, we have it at our hands, seventy-two Members and Members, and we must make it possible. Now. They can't let you get away. I am convinced that we will find a way to find an agreement to put into value what we all have above, that is this democratic mandate of citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.29.0	The statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups, all the while followed, to reply, has the very honorable Mr.Artur Mas and Mr. Gavarró, candidate for the presidency of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, depending on what we have heard in the interventions of the different parliamentary groups, the different spokespersons, we could almost avoid more interventions, because the vote, for which we have heard, is oriented. And it's clear that today, so it's not going to be as good as we've been working on it because it could be good. But it would seem to me, too, so... go, it would seem like a lack of correction on my part not to respond, even if it is soon, to the different interventions that have been made by all of you, and to give so also the opportunity that you yourself tank this debate before proceeding to the vote. I would like to make a reference, from the outset, to a subject which came out on the part of all the spokespersons, in different intensity and in different orientations, which is the subject of the resolution of the Constitutional Court, the ruling of the Constitutional Court of yesterday. I have to tell you that we're back in time; that's more or less the usual thing these past years, we're used to. What do you mean, that? That the Spanish Government has a great prerogative, enormous prerogative, which is to invoke an article that allows it to, when it appeals before the Constitutional Court requesting that it suspend a rule, whatever, to the Constitutional Court, if the President of the Spanish Government invokes this article – that if I do not recall badly is 161.2 of the Spanish Constitution–, automatically, remains suspended. What's up with that? There's no re, it's the usual, we know how this all works. We know perfectly well what's going on. And you know one thing perfectly well – and with that I respond to some of you. We know, for example, that the Spanish Government, in the place of political fer he, who is the one who is responsible for it, does politics through the Constitutional Court, which is not the one who is responsible for it. That's what we know, unfortunately. And of that, there is a total bust: the Constitutional Court is used to do politics, oblivioning that to whom it corresponds politics is to governments and parliaments. And this is a sign – and I said it a couple of days ago here, I repeated it today – of this absolute immobilism in which the Spanish Government is installed respecting the Catalan question and the Catalan social reality, which can please or please less, but there is, there is. And in a democratic society, when people talk to the polls, and these people are a lot of people, and they end up giving an absolute majority to a parliament, a democratic government of their own to the table, listen, negotiate and up agreements, instead of going to the Constitutional Court every day, demanding suspension of any rule. [[Greetings.]] That's what's normal. Well, you say to me: "The Constitutional Court has suspected... Listen, if you know perfectly well. What happened a year ago? What happened on November 9, 2014? We did exactly the same thing. And that's why he stopped doing it on November 9th of 14th? You challenge us and say: "What are you going to do now? I remember them. What happened last year? When the Constitutional Court said: "It is not possible to do so on November 9th or so alone in the form of participatory proceedings, it found a way to put the ballot boxes. What's wrong? And there was the way that 2,350,000 people annexed to the vote, that's not a few people. And that had a huge international impact, and not just in the Financial Times, but at all. And he talked about what? From the civic and democratic example of a people like català. He talked about it. What happens is that some of you, when you speak well of Catalonia, do not like them; they would prefer that we donessin canya always. And when you speak well of Catalonia – and you speak very well and often – then that bothers you. And I remember, when it comes to the international press – which is all of it – that have almost unanimously condemned the immobilism of the Spanish Government. There's no foreign press editorial that I don't understand how a democratic government doesn't listen to a cry and a democratic repte that sets its first productive economy, plus Catalonia. I don't understand it. I don't understand it. And that's the reality. Has the Constitutional Court therefore resolved this at the request of the Spanish Government? You know that. He also made it a year back, and the ballot boxes were put down, and a large part of the people of Catalonia went to vote. And you will say to me: "But after all this an attempt has been made to open a criminal procedure against certain people. Yeah, okay. But the polls were forty thousand people from this country volunteered to mobilize. Certainly, as long as they care about the function: many of these forty-thousand were also functioning and they didn't have it – they didn't have it. What they did was to follow, as citizens, not as if you were working, because before you were working they were citizens..., before that, what they did was to follow, first, what drove them their thoughts and sensitivities, and, secondly, to help one of the great democratic movements that at this time is in Europe and the world, as Mrs. Marta Rovira reminded us now. Of course, when you talk about what is going on, you say: "You have invented everything, you have moved everything, you do everything, etcetera, right? Quin' you despise so much respect for the people. When you identify with the accused as if the only person responsible for what is happening in Catalonia – which, by the way, is very distressing to me – was I myself, oblivion that there were 2_million people in this country, the 48_percent of the people who went to vote, who explicitly voted in favour of independence. A little respect for these two million people, please. [[Greetings.]] - No, no, no, A little respect – a little respect. Because I... [[The applause continues.]] Because, me, when I talked about the others, you always felt me talking with respect. I have said things, always; I have said things and I have said them a thousand times, and this will surely be the thousand and one. I have always said that he deserved exactly the same respect as he voted that he did that he didn't. And that he obviously had the same value as the one who votes yes as the one who votes no. And the only reason – the only reason – is that it is not easy to vote for those who vote that yes and those who vote that no. That's what I've heard a thousand times. But you speak with a total disrespect for the people who voluntarily make an option in favour of sovereignty, in favour of the right to decide, in favour of the Catalan state, or even in favour of Catalan independence, as if here there is a great manipulator – that I am, by the way – a species of demons, with banyas and with whom, which is dedicated, therefore, to fool everyone. These poor uncultivated Catalans who don't know where they're going, who are a small branch and who are allowed to carry. Quin' you despise so much! Therefore, I ask them that, even though they are against independence – that they have all the right of the world and, at last, to defend their positions with all vehemence –, to the people who are in favour of it, you give them a respect. And the first respect is to value their vote and not think they're manipulated to vote, because they're as adult as they're not. Exactly the same, grown-ups. [[applause]] Exactly the same. It's a town, the one that's mobilizing: one part in one direction and the other part in another. And I remember, to all those who make some speeches, that more than two thirds of the people of Catalonia, and, therefore, people who would vote than in a referendum, claim the right to decide of the people of Catalonia. And what have all of you done after these defenses so narrowly that they're doing us now? What have you done? Have you listened to these thirds? Did you hear they weren't escorted? He hears that they were absolutely indifferent if they were two-thirds, three-five-parts, four-five-parts? Even though it was 95_per_cent they would pass through the clatell – and excuse the colloquial expression. That's the reality. Any excuse would be good to say that not everything, that's where we are. And so, I insist, and I said a couple of days ago, things happen and we're in this moment where we are. Change of registry. I have also been told by some spokespersons, more or less used words that may or may not come together to what you have expressed, which I have translated here in Parliament, some 'conversations', as if they were almost a coffee talk or an appetizer made in the bar. So, man, I suppose the obligation of the president, go, and the candidate who is presented to the investiture, is, if there is a factor between the first vote and the one to be the second, to put it directly in knowledge of the chamber, which is who to vote for the investiture. If you hadn't, what would you have told me? That it was secretism, that we figured out, that I don't know what, that it fell, that it turned, etcetera. So, listen, the most normal thing about the world is that I come here and say to them: what difference is there between what I had to say the first day and what I can say the second, in front of the vote? I won't repeat everything I said the first day! Therefore, I add to what had not been said. And what I hadn't said was what I put them on the table. And, for that matter, they're moving. And I told them one thing, and so it's a long way from a conversation; I said to them, "What I add to it today forms part of the government program with which I present myself as a candidate. And so, if it's part of the government program, it's voting for that, too. Now you will vote that no, for what you have told us, the majority, but it forms part of the government program, the two things: the fact that there is a presidency exercised in another way, u, and, two, the fact that, according to the standards we have in this very Parliament, the government voluntarily says: "From here to two months we will come here and subdue ourselves to their trust. And it turns out that this is devaluing the presidency of the Generality? Is that charging the prestige, the credibility of the Catalan institutions? That is to say, if I propose it now, in the name of Junts for the Yes, it is devaluing the Catalan institution and the presidency. If President Maragall did it the year 2005, then it was all the opposite. A little more coherence, because if that's devalued, it always did. And I think no, that this has nothing to do with devaluing the presidency of the Generality: exercising it in a way that is legally possible and that, moreover, democraticly has its value for a moment of transition as we are perfectly coherent. And that's why we put it on the table. Fix yourself in a detail, since they're so, so, so worried about the strict compliment of the norm, right? , fix yourself in a detail: to do this you can't touch a single standard like no standard, you can do it with the current standards. One thing we can do with current standards is devalue the institution of the Generality and the Presidency? Introduce yourself in this Parliament a few months ago to say: 'Ecculti'm, let us submit to your trust; you vote, and we know that we are in a delicate period of history in Catalonia, that we have to make very complicated decisions, that obviously mean a pulse with the Spanish State, diem: 'We start to retreat as the government, we complete a whole period of sessions and, knowing that we are at such a special time, we come here and we submit to your trust. - Is that what you're talking about? Is that devaluing the presidency of the Generality? Is that charging the credibility of the Catalan institutions, coming to vote? Some, I see, have allergy, to that of voting. And it turns out that we're talking about this, we're talking about voting in the Parliament of Catalonia, which doesn't have to be so dramatic. Clearly, for a government it's more convenient not to do these things, but we're not talking about conveniences; if we're talking about conveniences, we'd be in another register! We're talking about doing quite different things, because the moment that Catalonia is living is different. And we have said it many times: we cannot act at this time only with the usual autonomous view; among other things, because we have a mandate in the ballot box very recently that tells us: "Act in another way. Certainly, returning to the appreciation that you made of what the Constitutional Court did, which surpassed what the Spanish Constitution meant to Catalonia was the people of Catalonia on 27 September. On September 27, there was a full-fledged question, on the part of the people in the ballot box, respecting what the Spanish Constitution means. You say: "The Spanish Constitution says the unit of Spain, this is an absolute fact. So the 48_percent of Spain's second most populated territory and the first productive economy has told them: "This Constitution, no longer serves us. That's what she said – that's what she said – the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Not said by the Lord But – not said by the Lord But – not said by the Lord Marta Rovira, not said by the Lord Raül Romeva, not said by the Lord Oriol Junqueras : said by the people..., a part of the people of Catalonia, significant. And he said that, exactly what I just said. Therefore, your vagina speaking of the unit of Spain in the Spanish Constitution. There is a large part of the Catalan people who no longer believe and who have overcome it, have overcome it politically. Another thing, then, will be the subject of strictly legal links; this will be faced at every moment, obviously, as always. And, by the way – I make a parenthesis – remember that you are in a room in a country, which is Catalonia, which has always had and shown love for the laws. Always – always. And don't forget another thing: it's not about jumping legalities; what's claiming a very important part of this country is replacing legalities, one of Spanish for one of Catalan [[applause]] Which is exactly the same as legality. Therefore, it is not a matter of going to lawlessness; it is a matter of adjusting to legal marks, but different legal marks. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, it is not devalued, it is honorable the trajectory of this country, also from the highest institutions of the country, which is the Generalitat de Catalunya, and, among them, the Presidency of the Generalitat. And when you say to me, "Everything has a limit, from this point of view of negotiation, so, I, whenever I have seen a parliamentary minority, have always seen it negotiate government formulas; I have always seen this. I still remember those who even ruled and learned català to speak it in intimacy; we still remember it, of that, and of many other things. And let's remember, for example, how parties that didn't get to be first in a few elections after they formed alternative majorities in Parliament to be able to rule. And now we're in a situation where there's a majority of sixty-two MPs looking for another's support. And that's doing the ridiculous, devaluing, deprecating... and everything else, in change, no. I have already seen that, in some expressions of some spokespersons, you would be very concerned that the CUP will come to vote for it. I've seen it before, haven't I? They appeal to their coherence: « Above all, members of the CUP and members of the CUP, remember their commitment, eh? Remember him well, his compromise, it was no accident that a presidency of the Generality came out that can pull all this forward and that, together with seventy-two Members and Members, can also help to pull forward this process. They do their best to load 'ho, all that, because this way they will win those who have not won the elections, and impose their criteria, and impose their program. That's what they want, and not another thing. And that should certainly be a reflection object, concretely, on the part of some. How's it going, Mr. Iceta, on the happy archadia? Defending the right to decide. Where you were and stopped being there. That's where you guys showed up. [[applause]] with an election program, defending it, and then they'll forget. It's up there this way, Mr. Iceta. And it's hard for me to know that you passed it, because it's obvious that it wasn't the same with you in favor of the right to decide that without, and it had and has a right to quality, and you defended it under certain conditions. And if they're talking about the Catalan nation – and I applaud that expression, because it's exactly in the words that we've been talking about for a long time – if we're talking about the Catalan nation we also need to talk about this substantial right that it is saying, that it's the right to decide about any birth. Or is it that the Catalan nation will be the only born of the world that cannot decide for itself its future? Then he's not born. And that's precisely why they don't want to let us decide, because they don't want to consider us a nation, they don't want to recognize us as such. Therefore, Mr. Iceta, if we are talking about the Catalan nation, we are talking about it with all the consequences. He can be a defender of the Catalan nation and opposed to independence; absolutely agreeable and perfectly respectable – perfectly respectable – as much as being in favor of the Catalan state. Now, if we're talking about the Catalan nation, we need to talk about the right to decide. And that is not indifferent, Mr. Iceta, whether you are there or not. It's not indifferent, it's very important. And, therefore, how does it get to the happy archadia? It must be very difficult to get there, but not impossible. But if you defend the right to decide, you're closer to it. And that I think is possible because at some point you have explicitly done it. On certain conditions, we also feel it from other political formations. Finally, I also wanted to make a reference to an expression that was made..., it seems to me that there was Mr.Rabell, who said: "The best campaign committee is what we are doing here, in the face of certain Spanish political formations. So, instead of saying no, say something else and the campaign committee is over, huh? [[Give me the applause.]] Because that's up to everyone. You can't accuse yourself of being a campaign committee and then rent your hands. Clearly... that's a way, so, to focus things on... how we felt. There was an expression that called my attention; you said that you used to see in us those people who are great in words and powerless in deeds. God doesn't do it. [[Rialles.]] Look, for a moment, when you said that, you were passing me the movie of a year back on November 9th of last year. Does that mean that what we weren't going to be, enough, was as consistent in words as in facts? Maybe? And don't say any more, because I obviously don't want to mention anything like that and every one, so remember the story as I can remember it. But at least – at least – Mr.Rabell, I think I have the small right, very modest, to claim that, in very complicated decisions that have come to this country in the last few days, there has been absolute coherence between the words and the facts. And that, of course, in politics is not very common, because very often it is more convenient to talk a lot, to gargle a lot, to be very great, as you said very well, in the words, and then to be very little consistent in the facts that come next to or after those words. There have been very large decisions in this country, which are perfectly in this line of coherence, and the coherence that we now have with this independence majority in this Parliament is behind us. Some spokespersons say to us: "There are other alternatives, and at the same time they say to us: "And you are delivering yourselves into the arms of the CUP; they tell us the two things. Is it not that what we're doing is being consistent with the mandate to reject the ballot box, that's the first one to do a political formation when he ran in some elections? Clearly, it would be more comfortable to ask ourselves now to look for another alternative. Changed from what? From what you would consider to be absolutely normal and coherent, what would be oblivion of the mandate rejected at the polls, with which we presented ourselves? So, look, I'll make it clear to you: we prefer to have difficulties and to be consistent and to complete the mandate rejected at the polls, democratic, we prefer this [[applause]] , even though you suppose us more difficult, that they are actually the ones we have at this time. I appreciate the words you said, in the sense of "without justice there is no right." Indeed, many times we have not spoken in these past weeks and months. Of the laws, there are not all systems, in the democracies and in those that are not; there are also laws, and they are also obligatory compliments. But in democracy the difference is that the laws must start precisely from just situations. And the right situations, where are we? To the polls. And what is the majority in this House, out of the ballot box? In favor of the independence of Catalonia. Therefore, justice, the foundation of the right – you remembered it, according to the Roman tradition – should bring someone to a table to see how the standards fit so that we can all complete them, as we want to complete them, so that these just democratic mandates that are produced at the polls can be implemented. That's what we've been claiming wrong and right, and all the ways, and all the ways possible. And finally, then, we didn't get out until we could get out. And, indeed, we had to tighten the rope, because on the other side there was no one to talk about and, on the other hand, we had an important social majority in favour of pushing forward in this sense. Well, the last thing I wanted to say, in this case more directly to the CUP spokesman, Mr. Antoni Baños, is... two or three things. The first one. You said to me: "It's a no calm... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's not cool, it's fine. Jo, look, I'd say I prefer an uneasy yes, not a calm one, huh? [[Give me the applause.]] And you, who are people who are not moved by comfort, I imagine, so, man, be a little more uneasy and not so quiet. And the more uneasy it is not that I invite them to do something special, simply to the uneasiness of yes, which is probably what would change the register of what is happening at this time in Catalonia, on the basis of a sincere offer that was made, yesterday in private, and today in public, and today is incorporated, in this candidacy, of what is the government program. So, what do I mean by that? That, if everyone kept their position unchanged and unalterable, it's obvious that there can be no agreement. For this reason, and I, in the name of this majority, have tried to take this step forward, not to embrace the UPC, to please them all, to degrade the institution of the Generality, to carry on what the Presidency of the Generality means, not: to form a parliamentary majority that allows us to invest the Presidency of the Generality, through here to have a government and, from here, to walk and to build, among all. It's about that. There's a movement, and I'm, so, I'm glad that you, as a minimum, give it a value, to this movement. I, therefore, ask them..., you said: "We are neither cross nor border; we are a spring. So, let's get rid of borders, and crosses, and springs, and let's go with a concept, maybe, a little more theoretical, which is co-responsibility. It is not a matter of someone simply doing what they want; it is a matter of acting together, in a co-responsible manner, because we are all needed to pull this path forward after the mandate has been rejected at the polls. I think it's a matter of this, of being co-responsible for all folds. And co-responsibility is common practice. I am pleased that you say: "We are stuck in the table. Therefore, I understand this, so as a willingness to have some more movement; perhaps, in this case, for you, because we have not made one and, as you will understand, we cannot make one every day – we cannot make one every day. We didn't make one and it's very meaningful. It's not the first; other things have also been moved. Not to pay any price to change the presidency. I want to remind some of the spokespersons that I am today, probably, if I had made a completely different speech, I would have attached some other majorities, if the problem is that I'm president, and you said so yourself. Therefore, if I come out of here as a candidate and not as a president, it will be because we have wanted, precisely, this consistency with the mandate rejected at the polls; nothing to see with this approach that you do, let me say, with a certain offense, when you tell me that I want to be president at any time, because if I want to be president at any time, then I will be president at any time. Precisely because I just want to be at a price, which is to be consistent with what the people said in the polls and with our program, today I won't be, precisely because of that. And they don't ask for any adherence, no recognition; they just ask for a little objectivity in the analysis of things. Tell us, Mr. Baths, there's time. There is, but few. Yes, there is, in time, but not much; not much, because although, on a regular basis, according to the standards, we have time up to the principles of generation to resolve this issue, I believe that the term should not reasonably go so far. And I think it's reasonable in the next few days that this has to be resolved, in one sense or another. And you said to us: "We do not want you to have another election in advance. Well, value it for money, because obviously it's an option, and voting again is always an option, it always is. And you and we won't denigrate her, this option, because it's giving people back their eyes. That's solid. Now, after we've given it two months ago, not even if we have a majority here to pull it forward without having to vote again, so let's get it together and get it over with quickly, because it seems to me that we all agree that the current situation does not help to maintain a Catalan position with the strength that this parliamentary majority gives us and that people gave us to the polls. And I think we need to see this. Therefore, I value that you say 'there is a movement on the part of the majority; I value that you say 'we are stuck in the table and we want to keep talking; I value that you say 'it is not the best scenario, go back to the elections' – I also agree, fully agree – the only thing that you ask is: if there are no people who are moving, you must move everyone to reach an agreement. And the second thing I'm saying to you is, let's not cheat, because every day that happens is one day against the warrant that we were sent to the polls on 27 September. Thank you for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.31.0	Further, as the response has been joint for all parliamentary groups, in accordance with Rule 146.2 of the Rules, for the reply of each parliamentary group will correspond to a time proportional to the time spent for the candidate. Since the candidate's answer was approximately thirty minutes, it corresponds to a five-minute time for each parliamentary group. The word has the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mas, you said, with regard to the Constitutional Court's decision: 'Res de nou' – nothing new. I totally share it: nothing new, expectable, absolutely normal; what has happened and the resolution of the Constitutional Court is the most normal thing in the world in a democratic country. Politicians who are created above democratic laws and justice provoke such decisions by democratic courts. Nothing new, Mr Mas, in a democratic country, no. What's new is his attitude. What has not been seen is his attitude, believing he is above all this. And I tell you more, you have come further in this country than you would have come in any other democratic country in our environment. And that's bad news – that's bad news. But I, however, believe that you have not answered today's big question, the question we have asked you, the question that all Catalans are asking. Are you going to skip the Constitutional Court ruling, yes or no? Are you going to jeopardize Catalonia's self - government and autonomy, yes or no? Are you going to compromise the officials and citizens of Catalonia and put them in a problem because of their noncompliance, yes or no? If you're so brave to jump at everything and believe above justice, why don't you answer this simple question? Are you going to skip the Constitutional Court ruling, yes or no? And speaking of the Constitutional Court, which you continue to delegitimize today and speak of being politicized... And of course it is politicized, if there are magistrates on your side, that what happens is that, as you have not listened to them, as you have not liked the unanimous adoption of these resolutions, because you no longer like them. I asked him the other day, I told him again: what have you done in the Congress of Deputies so that these courts are not politicized? Nothing, they have done nothing, because they have been delighted with life with this system. And I'm just telling you one thing: I'm not going to let you tell us that we're delighted that Catalonia is being talked about internationally. Because we are also Catalonia. Let's see if he's getting a little bit in his head. [[Greetings.]] Catalonia is all of us. Catalonia is not you, Catalonia is not Convergence and Catalonia is not independence. And I tell you more, Spain is not the People's Party, because I, every time I hear you speak, you speak and criticize the government of the People's Party and Mr. Rajoy – which I have so many things in agreement with you, very many – but it is that Spain, fortunately, is so much more than Mr. Rajoy, is so much more than the People's Party. It's just that I, when I hear you, believe that basically what you want to do is independence from the People's Party. So we're going to do it in the polls, in the next general election, and we're going to form a new alternative majority. By the way, you said: " Respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, respect, Of course. If the only one who is not respecting the social majority of Catalonia is you, they have told you a no like a house in the past autonomous elections: not independence, not to jump if legality, no, no and no. That's what the social majority of Catalonia has told you. The Catalan social majority, even after all its efforts, does not bet on independence. And I'll tell you more, let's see what the social majority is in the general elections; let's read and let's also interpret the results of the next general elections here, in Catalonia, to see what the Catalans are voting for. You do lack respect for the Catalans, the majority who do not want independence, obviously, because you are not marrying them; the large part of the population of Catalonia who want independence, because you are lying to them, you are promising them things that you know you will not be able to fulfill, and you will be able to thwart many people, many people who have legitimately trusted you and who trust in independence. But above all, you are failing to respect all Catalans equally, because to your daily problems you are not giving them a solution: unemployment, poverty, cuts, corruption. How little he likes to talk about corruption. By the way, Mrs. Rovira has not spoken at all. I guess, in your conversations, you stay like this, don't you? : "Listen, don't talk about corruption, eh? We're better off talking about other things, 'cause that's not good for us. How can we not talk about corruption in this situation in Catalonia, with the government presided over by a party that has fifteen seats seized for corruption? And again, again, for the democratic mandate. You have gone from considering that electoral programs are wet paper – because you see that you have promised things in Catalonia, every time you have run for office, and you have failed them: the single business window we are still waiting for, the tax drop, quite the contrary – you have gone from considering that the electoral program is wet paper to considering that you are the tables of the law of Moses. The electoral programme can, of course, be implemented within the democratic law, like any other electoral promise, like any other conditioning. Or do we, when it comes to helping disadvantaged families, who have been included in the election program, have a license to jump us all the laws? Or do we not have to comply with environmental regulations when changing the energy model? Of course I do, Mr. Mas. Mr. Mas, you, who are part of Junts pel Yes and the CUP, do not have a project for Catalonia; you have only one obsession, which is to stop being Spanish. But that is not a project, that does not generate companies, quite the opposite; that does not feed, quite the opposite; that does not unite citizens, quite the opposite. And, by the way, Mrs. Rovira, now that we're done, I'm going to give you a copy of our anti-corruption election program – that's what you're not talking about now – and against the capitalism of friends. Because, of course, there have been barbarities in Spain. You don't think we're ashamed of the Castor case? Shame. But how about you selling Tabasa? What do you think of Tabasa's operation, which has sold Catalan assets and, at the age of two, these private companies have had a surplus of 125_per_cent? What a ball you've hit some, huh? , thanks to decisions of the Generalitat of Catalonia. For setting an example. So, the solution, Mrs Rovira, is not to say that in Spain everything is wrong and here we do everything right, no. We will solve the problems we share, both in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole. Corruption, that you don't talk much, but what there is, here and there. By the way, don't talk to me about energy; don't talk to me about energy because its partners have passed the energy regulations, they have passed the energy regulations in the Congress of Deputies. If we had all the powers in energy here, we would have the same rules, because the lords who have ruled are Convergence i Unió. So don't close your eyes, don't sell us things that you know can't be fulfilled. We have to solve problems here, and so much. And in the whole of Spain, and so much. And that's what needs to be done: reforming Spain. And let the Catalans be the driving force behind Spain's reforms, as we have always done, as always. What you're doing is wasting time, doing us, the Catalans, wasting a lot of time and a lot of money. And I say one more thing to you, Mr. Mas: you are in time, you are still in time to return to the path of wisdom, to the path of democracy, to the path of the union of Catalans to get improvements for Catalonia within Spain. You're on time. Don't take another step, because if you don't, your people won't forgive you. And you will wish to return to this moment if you continue. And a little comment – and I finish, Madam President – from Mr Baños. We don't have a corruption case. And you know why? Because, in our statutes, any accused of political corruption would have to leave the party – would have to leave the party. There is no debate – there is no debate. We're not going to see if he's guilty, if not, if he's stolen a lot, if he's stolen a little, no, no, on the street. And that is what we have put in our statutes. And, by the way, problems of justice, better not to get out because in their political formation there are a few who have pending cases with justice. I don't say anything. And, Mr. Albiol, next time... (some applause) next time... Madam President... (Pause.) Next time, Mr Albiol, pay more attention to my remarks, because you have made a statement about the offer I made to Mr Mas that I do not think you have understood it very well. If you want later I do some private lessons(remove of veus), but don't put in my mouth offers that I... I of you and your proposal I haven't talked about, because you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.33.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.34.0	I'm done, Madam President. Therefore, Mr. Mas – Mr. Mas – return to the path of democracy, return to the path of the seny, return to the path of union, dialogue, proposal, reform. We're still on time – we're still on time. And I believe that you – you – cannot bring Catalonia to the situation to which you have brought us so far. We're still in time, you have many days to think about it, think about it, because Catalans don't deserve the political and social situation we have right now. We're still in time, Mr. But, and you've got it all on your hands. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.35.0	Illustrious Mr Miquel Iceta, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.36.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... Mr. candidate, we understand that you are growing up on one side of your intervention, as if you had to be in the absence of the confidence of the CUP, the only confidence you were looking for. Today is also a historic day: it is the first time that a candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat will not go out in the first or second ballot. I mean, the people who thought the history days were over, or not. Now, if you haven't met the CUP's confidence, don't get mad at the others, you've only been looking for the CUP. You tried to give an epic character to your intervention, but don't love a fact: if you had put together another presidential candidate, the investiture would have already occurred, and with the votes of the CUP, I mean epic, the just. I think we all agree that the room is where the different opinions are to be expressed, but its attitude, its lack of understanding of different opinions to its own is very worrying. I demand more respect for him. It's absolutely... [[applause]] , it is absolutely unworthy to attribute to any group in the chamber... – and it seems to me that he did not do it with mine, but that is why I say it – to any group in the chamber, an evil towards our country and its people. And it's especially unworthy of the President of the Generality to do so, even though it's still working. You say negotiation, and we have seen, in some respects, "below. Let me, that's a different point of view. We believe that until now and in this process the institution of the presidency has weakened. And for what you see, you haven't given up yet, Mr. Candidate. And, therefore, you will understand that we express this fear. You say: "The question of trust is perfectly legal. Hey! Now, no one has offered, until now, the investiture to change from a question of confidence to term. I mean, we don't deny the reality because in the end, we're going to lose each other. On the Constitutional Court, I do not want to extend it, because I believe that it is so obvious that this institution is actually the result of a democratic mandate from the people, but in function of an existing legality. I believe that abandoning the prospect of considering the importance that the Constitutional Court has decided unanimously is a mistake. Now, as we can't stand here, and in that we might agree, the way out of the problem is political, and we'll have to look for it through the dialog. Now, we ask you not to make the dialog impossible by taking the path of illegality, which is what we are asking of you. Remember, because even though it's working, you're the president of everyone. You ask us, we respect the right to decide. Home! But do you think you can demand the right to decide when you've already abandoned it? When do you say the Catalans have already decided? When is the final question I want to ask you is the vote on a Catalan constitution? Home! One has to have a little more authority to demand when he has already abandoned this... forgive me, position or trench, tell him as he pleases. You ask for respect to 48_per_cent. Obviously! And 52, and 100. The two, the three, "if I hurry. With respect also to the citizenry that will vote on 20 December, because here you say: "No, to you it will send them to vote. No, no, as we see it, the sooner we vote, the better; that is clear. Come on, what a mandra, boss. Now, one thing is not to have to vote, not to have it, and the other to wish that the legislatures are full. Don't sweep two things, because you have more level than all of this. Therefore, we expect, moreover, that this act of voting of 20 December opened a dialectic scene. Let's wait for him honestly. We'll work to make it possible. And that's why – and I'm sorry I repeated myself like that, but – we've seen better to wait to see if this new dial-scenario opens before rushing the election to get out for a dead end. But unfortunately, this dialist hasn't been there these four years, no; but, man, now that we have the general election to play, we might have waited. I'm done. I can't now extend'mmolt on a subject that I see they like very much. There are four or five words that go..., in other words: right, justice, democracy, legality, can be..., in any order. Miri, there can't be one without the others, trying to wing one without the others is fooling and fooling. We will ask you again, in the most emphatic way possible: you do not make the dialog impossible by the way of breaking with legality. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.37.0	Next, has the parable of the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.38.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, it seems to me that they are beginning to be esteemed. Mr. But very much appreciated the UPC, now we begin to demand that we vote and that we esteem it. Look, it would be very easy, it would be very easy if you wanted to get the investiture. Listen, better said, if you want to unravel this worrying situation, actually. If you step back, the people of the CUP seem willing to give out and solve the problem of the government today itself. I don't want to speak for them, but it looks like I do. Then you don't ask us to solve something that you could solve, huh? Another thing, the campaign committees... is that we're on another campaign committee and we're on another campaign, huh? We are in the campaign of the right to decide against whom they are forbidden, against whom no one is, against whom the gift is also amortized. And let me remind you that precisely if the Constitutional Court is playing the role, let us say, as a gendarme to the service of an instrumental policy for the policy of the PP government, it is with the contrary vote, with the firm opposition of our state referents, that they have firmly opposed it and denounced it as a perversion and as a totally negated gear, because precisely when there is a political problem, when there is a citizenry that is mobilized, a democratic government has, in fact, ensured, listened to, debated and articulated political solutions that cannot fit into the legal order, which is bulging through all the structures, literally. And this is also said by a company, an illustrious person who will accompany us in these elections, the constitutionalist Javier Pérez Royo, who explains very well that just when the Constitutional Court took its decision on the Statute of Catalonia, did much more than detail a statutory text, gave rise to the constitutional pact that allowed, therefore, that the political architecture that prevailed since the Transition was there, because it was not just a question of a text, but a pact between parliaments and the legitimacy of popular will as a source of law and guarantee and supreme decision. Therefore, we are at a political moment when we actually have to see the decision, with the discussion that we had, that we do not know, as the Lord said to us But, we do not know, he said to us: "Your friends, we do not know what the result is on 20 December. We'll try to be the best, because it's good for the Spanish democratic society and it's good for the Catalan democratic society. In any case, whatever the outcome of the 20th of December, Spain will not be what it is now, it will not be what it was, it will be a country that will assemble, I believe, much more to which it is Catalonia: a country that is difficult to govern, eh? , which will be in question and will heat up constituent processes, because it will heat up referring to pacts, referring to balances, rethinking institutions, relations between territories and between citizenship and power And to say to them, to end, that, precisely, in the discussion about Mr Esteve and the gestures sluggish and grandiloquent, and the impotent facts..., they have to see not so much with November 9th, where many we were in the street, where many we were laying ballots, where many we were collecting signatures to denounce the action of the Spanish Government – they will gather, if I do not recall badly, 1,400,000 barely in the street, explaining it to him person by person; god no, the citizen's response and the protest before the prohibition of the Spanish Government–, but precisely with a full road that the one that he poses are facts that they cannot have this social support, that they cannot bring about a support and mobilization of citizenship to be realized, and that they do not believe that they have a good part of it. I still refer to that article from La Vanguardia that explained the color cover that his governing council held when he saw what they had signed with the UPC, a perfectly understandable thing among ordinary people. What we are saying – and I finish with this – is that the democratic aspirations of Catalonia and the possibility, at last, of independence do not depend on a majority of independenceists in this chamber; they depend essentially on the fact that there is a sufficiently important social majority to make use of the democratic expression of the city council, that there is a sufficient majority to make Catalonia recognized as a political subject. And that goes through a reference; that goes through a reference. And what we are asking and asking is the need to refer, to rebuild a social majority that gives this opportunity and connects with everything that is happening in the Spanish State and that opens up a window of opportunity effectively also for the Catalan democratic society and its aspirations. That's why we're setting up the debate we're setting up, and that's why we're setting up an alternative to the full road you're clinging to and pretending to be re-elected or trying to be re-elected or appointed as President of the Generality. That's the explanation of our attitude. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.39.0	Next, there is the parable of Mr Xavier García Albiol, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.40.0	Madam President. Mrs. Rovira, if you have said that the Spanish State is interested in Spanish electricity, I suppose you must have explained this to your political group companion, Mr. Germà Bel, who is a member of Endesa's council; I suppose you must have explained this to him. Is that so? He was a member of Endesa's council. Let's be a little serious, huh? A serious mike and a little coherent. Mr President, you cannot question the catalanity of the voters of the People's Party of Catalonia. We will not accept that it casts doubt on the catalanity of the voters of the People's Party of Catalonia, because these voters together..., these voters together with the 5_million Catalans who have not voted an independent political force, deserve as much as the same respect that they deserve the 2_million Catalans who have voted in favour of independence. So, do the favor that, when you ask respect for some, have the same for those 5_millions that have not. And with your attitude, Mr. But, and with your attitude, you are lacking in respect, you are lacking in consideration and you are lacking in the origins of these 5_million Catalans that we feel Catalans but, also, we do not want to give up to continue feeling Spanish. The second question that I wanted to ask you, Mr. But, it is... you have mentioned here: "No, it is that the Government of Spain, invoking an article, already automatically suspect the laws that apply to Catalonia, as if it were an absolutely gratuitous thing. It is a lack of..., I will not say consideration, but it is a lack of institutional respect to make these statements. Listen, the resolution that he has suspected, that he has demanded the suspension of the Government of Spain, is endorsed by the Council of State. And there is a total coincidence, by unanimity, Mr. Mas, by unanimity, in the Constitutional, where there is some member who is in charge of the nationalist theses, that the proposal that was voted here is inadmissible. But it is not inadmissible exclusively because it goes against the Spanish Constitution, as you have tired of repeating; it is inadmissible and it is insurmountable because it also goes against this law that we have the Catalans that is the State of autonomy, that you are violating it and you are forcing it with your attitude. Why don't you repeat it? Why are you just talking about the Spanish Constitution? I also speak that, with his attitude, with that of his companions, what is violent is also the Statute of Autonomy, this Statute that we have voted among all Catalans and all Catalans. As you can ask, Mr. But, as you can ask that the Government of Spain does not want to go to the table? Of course you don't want to go to the table, making plans like you do. Neither the Government of Spain nor any government will be able to take the table with someone that they intend to divide, break and break the country. Of course, the Government of Spain can't take these steps. You come out here now and make plans that are consumable, make plans that are in agreement with legality, that are in agreement, Mr. Mas, with the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia; make plans that wander in this line, you will see as the president of the Government of Spain and the Government of Spain do sweat. And then they'll agree, or they won't, they'll negotiate, they'll disagree; but you can't pretend to go on a trip to what we've joined, which has cost so many seconds to pull forward, which is this country. And this country, now as it is, is a world reference thanks to the effort of millions and millions and millions of men, of generations who have worked to sum up, and not to divide, as you are doing at these times in Catalan society. And the last question. Let's see, he wanted to understand that, in fact, to vote here on a proposal, a law, therefore, must assume itself as valid. Mr. But, you, who are a trained person, know that this is not so. You know that the laws are reformed in accordance with the reform procedures provided for by the regulations in force at all times. Clearly, laws can vary, clearly, laws can reform, obviously; I would like to say that a society, if it were not so, would be anchored in history. But this change in laws has to be tough in the long run with the mechanisms provided for in a democratic state – in a democratic state – because they can produce. And what you are doing here in Catalonia, at these times, what you claim with the resolution that we were going to approve the other day and what so proud is, let me tell you, an attack on democracy and an attack on the interests of the vast majority of Catalans, which we also want to continue to feel Spanish. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.41.0	Mr. Bel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.42.0	He asks for the word because, as far as this chamber has regulatory competence over the electricity sector..., Mr. García Albiol has just questioned my ability as a legislator, because of the existence of a possible conflict...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.43.0	Is that for allusions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.44.0	For allusions – forgive inexperience.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.45.0	Okay, he's 30 seconds old.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.46.0	Yes, Mr. García Albiol said that I'm a member of the Council Counsellor of Endesa, that's not true, but I'll explain everything, because I'm a friend of transparency. I was appointed in July 2005 by Dr. Antón Costas, my thesis mentor and current president of the Circle of Economics. I entered it five months late, because I installed myself in Cornell and the next four months I was in Harvard. Well, by my knowledge of the electrical sector – my resume is public... Says Endesa that they paid us nine hundred euros per diet; in fact, they did not take into account tax withholding. And, indeed, it has placed me in a very good position to advise the spokesman of my group, because it is probably one of the deputies. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I didn't want to exceed myself – I have better electrical knowledge of this chamber. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.47.0	Mr. García Albiol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.48.0	Very short, Madam President, for allusions too. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.49.0	But it's that the allusion you made to the congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.50.0	No, I haven't done anything wrong... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.51.0	... Germà Bel. It's here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.52.0	Madam President, with fifteen_seconds– with fifteen_seconds– we give an answer, and there must be no more problem. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.53.0	Say it. Fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.54.0	[[Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Germà Bel, it was not clear to me: you were a member of the Council Counsellor of Endesa, yes or no? But, go on, and if it hasn't been, Mrs. Rovira, I can ask Mr. Madí, who has also been...]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.61.0	Thank you, thank you. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]] Next is the words of Mr Antonio Baños, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.55.0	Mr. But, let's see if we understand each other. I think... here in Rabell I was right: there's a very simple solution, huh? I mean, it's the name, and if we proposed another name, we'd agree. But to see if we understand each other... when we say we're stuck to a table, we're not stuck to a TV set. I mean, I know it's a..., I don't know if a convergent tradition or a tradition..., I don't know who to attribute it to, to what they say to Halloween, of "fright or death, of these televised peaks. We want to talk, we're stuck in jail, but we want, as we've always said... from the discretion and compliments of the words. After that, we are in this process of independence, obviously, but also for poor zero and for zero corruption, so we are the most interested in the functions of this government in function being exhausted, because, as you will understand, this government in function to us not only does not generate confidence, but we have confronted ourselves with the whole legislature, with which, when this government ended in function, better. This is also our engine, it is to impose a process of new institutions and a new public morality, so it settles in this new government. We are also concerned..., well, we are surprised and very concerned about what he said..., the use made, constantly, by the PP of the phrase "coherence and defence of democracy, when it is a party that finances with public money the mausoleum of a fascist dictator, an absolutely unusual thing in Europe. [[Greetings.]] Consistency cannot be used in a parliamentary game or in a rhetorical game. Consistency is something much more serious, and we occupy our entire life and public activity. I also said that coherence would not stretch as if it were a sciclet. We believe that the democratic mandate was one, and the democratic mandate was independence, not a name. And we want to continue trading, we don't have another way out; we agree and we said so at the beginning. But this is not about a policy of gestures, it is not a flirtation between Junts for the Yes and the CUP; this addressed the country. The proposal you made is not for us, it's for the country, I understand, isn't it? And, of course, we're in it and we're in it... I'm saying because we don't want this to end up feeling like a dance floor between two parties, because here the people who need to be involved and the people who need to see it, even though they've given it their democratic mandate, they're the people on the street. [[Another thing: we no longer ask for anything in this negotiation; for this reason I say that it does not have to be a flirtation between you and us, but that it has to be serious offers to the country that is looking at us and wants us to get out.]] [[And finally, on the issue of the rush, it's true, we don't have much time, we have to get to work, and we're in a hurry now, too; but we already had it after 9-N, when we understood that there was a warrant for clear disobedience and that we could have called the elections right away, and we had them to talk to you on September 27, the 28th in the morning, and we did, so, quite a few weeks to get these talks started. It is to say, in short, that we all have a hurry, but that we do not sit unilaterally, when I think we all have to put the batteries down.]] [[All right, all right, ……]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.56.0	Illustrious lady Marta Rovira has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.57.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, before my intervention, I will make a few brief comments on some of the remarks. In the first term, those who have made me some spokespersons, presidents, throughout the issue of corruption. If what it's about is that I verbalize the word corruption and say I'm here to end corruption, I do. And I can keep doing it for the four minutes, forty seconds that I still have until the end, if that's the most convincing. I'm here to end corruption. All– all–, absolutely all. Now, let me be told that I have not spoken of corruption in my intervention without saying the word, this is a fallacy, because when I said that certain particular interests, conflicts of interest, affect the general interest, this is talking about corruption – it is talking about corruption. Yeah, that's his point 4 of the document he handed me; so don't tell me I haven't talked about corruption. I haven't said the word, but I haven't explained one of the most common cases: those that we have to think about ending the shock, those that Mr Albiol was talking about now with so much desiccation, because I don't know what they're trying to do with this intervention that has addressed Germà Bel and some Juntes members for the Yes. What do you want? Do you intend to reprimand me? They expect me to come in for a breakup and play "and you?" Home, we're not going this way, because I think he'll lose – he'll lose. Hundreds of cases of corruption such as the European People's Party on the table; and of rotating doors not given lessons: forty-two well-retired policies at certain boards of directors of builders and, yes, of entrepreneurs also in the electrical sector. So let's not go this way. What I would like and like to see is, from certain representatives of the State, a firm fight against corruption without any other political interest that follows the fight against corruption. That's what I'd like to see there. And yes, I'm here for that, and I'll count on all the support I have in that sense. That said, I agree that we understand that the Constitutional Court has suspended a resolution adopted in this Parliament on 9 November – that is what the Constitutional Court has done, according to many speakers in this session and in the same Constitutional Court – but in any case it has suspended a democratic, legal and legitimate mandate that we understand to have in our hands and to which we owe it. A democratic and legitimate mandate that the President of the Government in office, a candidate for this investiture debate, has assumed, to be at the head of the Government, as appropriate. A mandate that says this country has to initiate a process is. We have a lot of hopes to start this process, we have a lot of hopes to debate and decide, in this Parliament and in the Government, how this new country needs to be: how it should be – and so we want to decide – a just and advanced social security; how we should and how we decide to build a public record that helps to complete obligations, instead of criminalizing and prosecuting entry; what electoral law we need to have to promote merit among political representatives; what an energetic model we adopt to deal with the peak of oil and reduce energy costs, and also what measures we have right to take to help fight the poor energy and the worst, now that you see winter, in our country. We want to walk through this process and open debates like, for example, how to organize a Catalan diploma with little structure, flexible and efficient – quite different from what we know about the Spanish model – and we have the will to debate it and decide it. We also hope to debate security and security forces: how we will make them more modern and more effective; about public administration: how we will make it more efficient and oriented to serve the citizens. We have a great deal of hope to debate and decide how we will distribute power socially so that the political community is everything – everyone–; as we guarantee that we are talking now, that the groups of interested and powerful do not come close to the general interest – for us, that is corruption. And we also want to debate and decide how we avoid economic, political or any other type of power being concentrated on a few hands, because here we don't want dominated people or secret institutions. It's all about that. If all this is not right, it is not possible, the Government does not put in enough resources or uncertainty, if this happens, if we have a government that cannot give compliments to these debates or bring forward these legislative proposals, a government that today the President But presented us in an absolutely solid, shared, open, new form, if this government does not do this, so we, all of us, all of us, together for the Yes, and our presidential candidate have committed themselves to a motion of confidence, a question of confidence. If we don't do it right, if this doesn't go as far as we've given it, then a few months from now we'll come back here and decide between all of us, and we'll make the change that's needed, because above all of us, we have this mandate, which is the mandate that they owe us. The deputies and deputies of Junts for Yes believe that as more guarantees we have of everything that we carry to the program, that we have approved in this declaration of initiators of the process of independence, as more guarantees we have, more scrupulously will complement these commitments and this mandate. And in this sense it seems to me that today the compromise presented by the President But to present a question of confidence to the head of new months, because the Parliament valid if the Government has done the job or not, to me it seems that it contributes to generating trust and that gives guarantees, gives them all, before the situation that if the Government is not fulfilling this mandate, as we have granted, with a plan of government, then there can be a change. And finally, I repeat, I repeat, I repeat, I explain that Juntes' proposal for Yes is a new government, with President Mas as a candidate, with a matrix organization chart that distributes responsibilities across the board, with three sectoral presidents, plus this question of trust. We welcome the CUP's consideration of this proposal, asking them to study it. It's the proposal we can put on the table. That we follow the negotiations, we value it positively, and it's a need for everyone. It seems to us that among all of us, we have a commitment to respect the forms, to negotiate, and I believe that we all have it, because the agreement flows in the best way possible. And I also think we need to show satisfaction because the CUP tells us that this agreement is not the flight of sixty-four Members. Neither do we; we want a vast majority of the seventy-two Members, all of us and each of us. I think it's our duty to have all and every one of the people we've been given this mandate to start the process is to make our country independent. Therefore, this, for us, is also good news, because it opens the doors to guarantee much more than the investiture of a government that has as its main objective this process constitutes; it opens the doors to seek parliamentary and political stability sufficient to enable us to implement this mandate that we have on the table. So we go on and I'm convinced that we'll find the point where you let us announce the news, agree and start working a few days from now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.58.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. According to Rule 4.4 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and Government and Rule 147.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, because the candidate was invested he has to obtain the votes of the simple majority. This choice involves, at the same time, the approval of the government program. As we were going to do in the first debate, the vote is public by vote. It is voted by alphabetical order starting for the deputy whose name you came out of by lot. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin.]] The number that came out is 25, which corresponds to the deputy Antoni Castellà. I ask the third secretary, Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, to appoint the deputies and the deputies, and these will answer "yes if they agree with the investiture, "not if they are against it or abstain. The members of the Government who are Members of Parliament and the members of the Bureau vote at the end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.59.0	Antoni Castellà and Clavé : « Yes. Carmina Castellví i Vallverdú : « Yes. Carles Castillo Rosique : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. Violating Cervera i Gódia: "Yes. Ferran Civit i Martí: "Yes. Antoni Comín Oliveres : « Yes. Joan Coscubala Conesa: "No. Jordi Cuminal i Roquet: "Yes. Julià de Jòdar and Muñoz : « No. Naomi of Sifré Street: "No. Fernando de Páramo Gómez : « No. Carmen de Rivera i Pla: "No. Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano : « No. Chakir El Homrani Lesfar : « Yes. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Antonio Espinosa Cerrato : « No. Albano Dante Fachin Pozzi : « No. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. Anna Figueras and Ibàñez: "Yes. Natalia Figueras i Pagès : « Yes. Josep Maria Forné i Febrer : « Yes. Montserrat Fornells i Sole : « Yes. Josep Lluís Franco Rabell: "No. Anna Gabriel i Sabaté: "No. Jesus Galiano Gutierrez : « No. Xavier García Albiol: "No. María José García Cuevas: "No. Esperanza García González : « No. Joan García González: "No. Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Joan Giner Miguélez: "No. Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster : « Yes. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. Hortènsia Grau Juan: "No. Lluís Guinó i Upirós : « Yes. Fran Hervías Chirosa : « No. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Miquel Iceta i Llorens: "No. Oriol Junqueras i Vies: "Yes. Andrea Levy Soler. [[The third secretary doesn't feel the deputy's answer.]] I'm sorry, can you repeat that? Andrea Levy Soler: "No. Gemma Lienas Massot: "No. Lluís Llach i Grande : « Yes. Neus Lloveras i Massana : « Yes. Angels Martínez Castells: "No. Eva Martínez Morales: "No. David Mejía Ayra: "No. Juan Milián Querol : « No. Josep Enric Millo i Rocher: "No. Raül Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Jordi Munell i Garcia: "Yes. Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Jordi Orobig i Sole: "Yes. Montserrat Palau Vergés: "Yes. Marta Pascal i Capdevila: "Yes. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Carles Puigdemont i Casamajó : « Yes. Eulàlia Reguant i Cura: "No. Eduardo Reyes i Pino : « Yes. Marta Ribas Frías : « No. Javier Rivas Escamilla: "No. David Rodríguez i González: "Yes. Santi Rodríguez i Serra : « No. Meritxell Roigé i Pedrola: "Yes. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Raül Romeva i Rueda : « Yes. Marta Rovira i Vergés: "Yes. Maria Dolors Rovirola and Coromi: "Yes. Josep Rull i Andreu: "Yes. Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Sergi Saladié Gil: "No. Benet Salellas and Vilar: "No. Josep Lluís Salvató i Tenesa : « Yes. Fernando Sánchez Costa: "No. Alfonso Sánchez Fisac: "No. Carlos Sánchez Martín: "No. Marc Sanglàs i Alcantarilla: "Yes. Sergio Sanz Jiménez: "No. Jordi-Miquel Sendra Velvè: "Yes. Maria Senserrich i Guitart: "Yes. Gabriela Serra Frediani: "No. Sonia Sierra Infante: "No. Bernat Sole i Barril: "Yes. Jorge Soler González: "No. Marc Solsona and Aixalà: "Yes. Jordi Terrades i Santacreu: "No. Roger Torrent and Ramío: "Yes. Jordi Turull i Negre: "Yes. Ramon Usall i Santa : « No. Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero : « No. Teresa Vallverdú Albornà : « Yes. Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Marc Vidal i Pou : « No. Laura Vílchez Sánchez: "No. Montserrat Vilella Quadrada : « Yes. Alberto Villagrasa Gil: "No. Marisa Xandrí Pujol: "No. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Oriol Amat i Salas: "Yes. Oriol Amorós i March : "Yes. Pere Aragonès i Garcia : « Yes. Inés Arrimadas García : « No. Antoni Balasch i Parisi : « Yes. Antoni Baños Boncompain : « No. Pain Bassa i Coll: "Yes. Albert Batalla i Siscart: "Yes. Albert Batet i Canadell: "Yes. Germà Bel Queralt: "Yes. Susana Beltrán García : « No. David Bonvehí i Torras: "Yes. Albert Botran i Pahissa: "No. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Rafael Bruguera Batalla: "No. Josep Manel Busqueta i Franco : « No. Montserrat Candini i Puig : « Yes. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Muriel Casals i Couturier: "Yes. Joan Ramon Casals i Mata: "Yes. Magda Casamitjana and Aguilà: "Yes. Jean Castel Sucarrat: "No. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] We'll go on, if it looks like... Germà Gordó and Aubarell: "Yes. Irene Rigau and Oliver: "Yes. Neus Munté and Fernández: "Yes. Artur Mas i Gavarró : « Yes. Ramona Barrufet i Santacana : « Yes. Joan Josep Nuet i Pujals: "No. [[Let's give the rialles a round of applause.]] David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Anna Simó i Castelló : « Yes. Josep Maria Espejo-Saavedra Conesa : « No. [[Rialles.]] Lluís Maria Corominas i Díaz : « Yes. Carme Forcadell Lluís : « Yes. [[It's going to the countdown.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-12-0303.60.0	The result of the vote was: 62 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. As the candidate has not obtained the required majority of votes, in accordance with Rule 4.5 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, another round of consultations with representatives of the different parliamentary groups will be initiated to process a proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality. The session's up.
