ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.1.0	The session begins. [[Condol manifestation for victims of river overflow Sió to Agramunt]] In the first place, before starting the order of today, if I may, the proposal to make a minute of silence in record of the four victims who died last November 3rd because of the overflow of the river Sió to Agramunt. So let's keep a minute of silence in your memory. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] I would like to greet, on behalf of the House, President Benach, ex-advisors, ex- MPs and authorities who are accompanying us today. Next, I would like to welcome Mrs Hortènsia Grau and Juan and Mr Fernando Sánchez Costa, who are joining us today as Members of the Eleventh Parliament. Both are Members who know Parliament very well, as they were Members of the previous legislature. [[Proposal for a resolution on the initiation of the political process in Catalonia as a result of the election results]] [[250-00001/11]] The first item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions and the motions for resolutions. As you will recall, two motions for resolutions have been tabled, a first motion for a resolution on the initiation of the political process in Catalonia as a result of the electoral results, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent; a second motion for a resolution on the prioritization of a citizen's rescue plan and the initiation of a constituent process, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. From the terms of the discussions, the parliamentary groups of Junts per el Si, the CUP - Crida Constituent, Catalunya Yes it is Pot and the People's Party have presented papers. As you know, the Spokesman's Board on 6 November agreed that the two proposals and the papers were the subject of a single debate, in which each parliamentary group will intervene for a period of fifteen minutes each. So in the first place, Mr Raül Romeva, on behalf of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, has the parable to present the motion for a resolution and to position himself on the issues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.2.0	Well, good morning, Madam President. Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Deputies, Lords, Lords, Friends, today I debut in this plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia with honor, but also with the responsibility of defending the motion for a resolution with which we solemnly begin the construction of a new state, a Catalan state, a Catalan republic. This was a compromise that we were going to acquire during the electoral campaign and that became, among other measures, an exceptional standard of character with which we wanted, with which we want to provide the present legislature. A legislature that, as we have said many times, focuses like the later autonomous character. Many people will live today with great emotion. There are many people to whom they must have come all the way here; some, sadly, are no longer there, even though they will always be present. And there are people who come from all over the world, in this trip, other people came here a little while ago, but they've all been needed to get here. The very list of Junts for the Yes, which I had the honor to encapsulate, is nothing other than the formatization of an electoral citizen's demand, a massive, transversal demand and a peaceful example. Millions of people bring years to claim from institutions and political actors that this country has the necessary tools to guarantee, among others, the state of welfare, equal opportunities, respect for diversity, social justice. In other words, there is a growing demand for this country, Catalonia, to be more than one nation, a state, with everything that entails this condition. With this statement that we are presenting and voting today, we want to mark, therefore, not only the beginning of the Eleventh Parliament, but also one before and after the political condition of this Parliament and of the Catalan institutions. We're where we are after asking and listening to the popular will. Probably two million people voted in favour of Catalonia becoming a state, and this is a figure that manifests the size of the task. Certainly, we do not forget that because of the anti-democratic attitude of the Spanish government a lot of people saw it private, a little more, of a right to a speech, the right to vote. In other words, everyone can do the numerical games he wants, which convinces him the most, so much so, but the reality, which has the virtue of being coughed up, is that on September 27th we were going to vote knowing that, for many formations, this was the way, the best way, the only way to exercise the right to decide. And it is that, after many attempts to make a legal and granted reference, on November 9, 2014, things of chance, now just a year ago, thousands of people – in fact, millions – did so to be able to place a paper in a cardboard box. We wanted to say that you participated so that we could not say otherwise; we knew that it was not the reference we wanted, nor was it the one we wanted, but then it was the only one that was allowed to do, or that we thought then. That's to say it went well, very well, because it allowed us to vote, but it ended badly, very badly, because it ended up with three people being sued for having done what the people, the people, had asked them to do, to put the ballot box. Last September 27th we were going to do it again, this time in the form of elections. Formally, it was an orderly election to elect a parliament, this Parliament, but everyone knew that, in fact, for many of the applications that we were going to present, even some who have never explicitly recognized it, were special, exceptional. It's more, since Juntes per el Yes we've always said that it was the reference that we couldn't do otherwise, and the results, it's counting as it is, whether it's counts, votes or percentages, they have a manifesto that there is a massive, clear and indisputable will in favor of making a path. After years of claiming the right to decide we simply decided to exercise it. The resolution that we are debating right now and that we will vote from here to an Estonian is nothing more than translating it into a parliamentary format of this compromise. But all folded, why? And more importantly, why? There is one who describes the current situation as if it is drawn from an aporia, a problem the solution of which presents an insurmountable logical difficulty, but this is the greatness of politics, or at least it should be. It is a question, no more or less, of finding logical answers to complex problems, precisely as years ago, in fact, decades ago, which we ask of the structures of the Spanish State, of which, tanmateix, only attacks, insults and quarrels arrive. Where is the height of sight, where is institutional responsibility, where is the common sense, where is justice, where is the separation of powers? Are we, in short, decency? Suso de Toro expressed himself clearly in an article published only a few months ago: "They do not deceive anyone, no one wants to deceive either: a goal of almost all the Spanish political forces, inside and outside Parliament, is to defeat Catalonia, to deny that is part of the psychological political war. There has been no democratic dialogue and it has come this far. What Catalan society is now facing is the conception of politics as a war by other means. But Suso de Toro went more there, when he said, with regard to the anonymous constitutional patriotism, that Carl Schmitt fit very well into the dominant political culture in Spain, militarism. And before this finding, dramatic for another band, and shared for so many people, we find the citizen's answer. The mobilizations of the later years, massive and peaceful, have agreed with people who came from different backgrounds, with different visions, divergent political positions, with multiple identities, mixed and complex, who express themselves in multiple languages, but all of them united by the same conviction: we need the tools of a state so that we can guarantee to people, to all people, come from one another and have the name they have, more and better opportunities. Why do we ask the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution that we have jointly tabled by the CUP and Juntes per el Si? Ras and short, to be able to start working, already, from today, in the construction of a state that gives answers to the enormous and urgent current challenges. We want a state because we believe in the welfare state and we want to preserve it. We want a state because we want to express ourselves and participate with one another in the main areas of concern to Europe and the world today, such as, for example, and among others, the management of mass and growing movements of people seeking refuge and shelter; and finally, we want a state because we simply need a state of right, in which the separation of powers is not permanently intertwined and crushed and guarantees everyone equal rights and opportunities. The welfare state, you see the world, rights and freedoms, institutional reform, here is the opportunity, the real revolution, the practical, real, feasible way of changing it all looking forward to it, counting on everyone and without exclosure anyone. The construction of a state stands before us, therefore, as a golden opportunity to design and build a modern state, close to the 21st century and a copy of everything you have to see, too, with prevention and fighting against practical evils or corruption. So, the resolution that we are voting on is translated into new points of enormous relevancy. First of all, we see that there is a democratic mandate, clear and legitimate, that bets for the opening of a process constitute, not subordinate. That is why, second of all, we solemnly declare the beginning of the process of creation of the independent Catalan state in the form of a republic. To do so – third point – we proclaim the opening of a process as citizenship, participation, openness, inclusiveness and action, in order to prepare the basis for the future Catalan constitution. For which thing – fourth – we urge the future government to take the necessary measures to make these declarations effective. The fifth point we are faced with, in the maximum of thirty days it will be necessary to start – I repeat, to start – the processing of the laws of process constitute, of social security and of public history. The sisè makes clear who will be the subject. And it is that, as the head of sovereignty and expression of power, this Parliament and the democratic disconnection process will not be subject to decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State, and in particular of the Constitutional Court. And the reason, which we have explained by active and passive, is nothing other than the fact that this institution has long since been delegitimized with its decisions, especially since the June 2010 judgment on the autonomous status of Catalonia, voted for the people in reference, among others. The set makes clear that who will lead this process of democratic, massive, sustained and peaceful disconnection with the Spanish State will be, once again, the popular will, through open, active and inclusive participation mechanisms. The eighth point is key, and it is a perfect synthesis of the fact that many people have long been convinced that there is no other possible action, and that independence is essentially about guaranteeing the rights of people and the fact that people can live better. That is why this point urges the future government to comply exclusively with those norms or mandates emanating from this legitimate and democratic chamber, in order to shield the fundamental rights that may be affected by decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State. And what are these rights and standards? So they want to see the fight against energy poverty and the right to universal access to housing, sanitation and education. Because a state that puts in danger the salvation and life of people with arguments of legalistic and centralistic character is, from a social point of view, a clearly failed state. But the annex also takes into account the full guarantees of public freedoms, the good functioning of local administrations, the attention to refugees, the right of women to decide on their own or the need to finance a social and debt management plan. Finally, the new and later point repeats what has been and continues to feel the attitude that we have always embraced: the willingness to start negotiations for such a democratic mandate to create a Catalan state, independent, in the form of a republic. That is why we are putting it in the knowledge of the Spanish State, the European Union and the international community. I ended the presentation of the resolution all resorting to the words of someone from outside Catalonia who has been able to copy, hear and explain the question that occupies us in clear and indisputably democratic terms, Ramón Cotarelo, who precisely this week's chapter wrote the following: "To give the independence of democratic, emancipatory and progressive content, Junts pel Si and the CUP solve an old quarrel between national liberation and social emancipation by postulating the achievement of their own state, a Catalan republic as an indispensable instrument for both purposes. Because without its own state the nation will be defenseless and social emancipation will be a chimera. It's the revolution within the revolution. That independence is directed towards equality between men and women, increasing public freedoms, social justice and the welfare of the community, starting with the weakest, and doing so peacefully and democratically, is what gives the Catalan revolution its unquestionable originality. With this statement, therefore, I would like to reiterate one more time, to compliment an electoral compromise, a democratic demand and a social and national urgency. I ended up, and I want to make so much of the motion for a resolution presented for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot as of the emena presented for the People's Party. With regard to the resolution of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, however and coincide, as I can understand from my words, with the need to give immediate response to the social urgency and to give start to a process constitute, we understand that the proposal to ask again for a reference has already been exceeded by the parties, so that we cannot vote in favour. For what it does at the point of the PP, it is obvious that it finds the diametrically opposed reading of the moment we are living, and therefore we cannot consider it to be voting in favour. I'm sure that in this case, however, it won't be a surprise either, nor will it be so alone for the same people who proposed the puzzle. I'm done. Maybe there's someone who still thinks that carrying the courts with legal artillery will stop this clam. I'm sorry to tell you that this doesn't have anything to do with it anymore. If it's not today, it'll be tomorrow. If we're not ourselves, they'll be others. But this country has been saying, loud and clear, that the time has come for everyone to go. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.3.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, Mrs. Anna Gabriel has the words to present the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.4.0	Very good morning to everyone. Men, ladies, the 27th of September, in an unusual and exceptional context, exceptional for the plebiscite character and constitute of the elections, and anomalous because we should not accept with so much normality that so many people accumulate so much patience and that we strike memories in attuned and unequal, the fruit of the policies of the different governments, also from this Generality, are to generate, however, an electoral result that are compromised in order to continue the path irrefutable towards the full political freedom of this country, political freedom for a country that must not want to see its people suffer more. Since the 27th of September, the People's Unity-Crida Constituent Candidature has given up its work in order to guarantee the compliment of the unequivocal democratic mandate that has emerged from the ballot box and to agile the process's momentum towards the Catalan Republic. Democrática rupture, anti-emergency and social urgency and the process are popular and not elitist, which cannot depend on anything that does not follow the unequivocal will of the social majority of this country: the triple strike towards a radically new future, towards social justice and towards a new configuration of power relations. I can't let Catalonia stand in the way of subordination. You're obvious. But you can also let Catalonia stand in the way of retailing, privatisation and corruption, because neither the future nor the present can be assembled in the past. Julia de Jódar said on the day of the constitution of this chamber that "the main task of this Parliament will be to resolve the conflict in the same democratic, peaceful and sustained terms of the movements that have given it the democratic majority and moral legitimacy to found a new aesthetic, legal and political model based on freedom, equality and social justice for our people. And that's exactly what we do from the same day September 28th to the first hour. And the first of the results is this statement, that it is not DUI, not yet, but it is an integral act of sovereignty, democracy and dignity, and that for us it is above all an act of rupture, a rupture with the lawfulness that denies us the possibility of being populous, before the Spanish imposition that makes it impossible to realize the most basic social rights and before the constitutionalist fundamentalism of a rule that burys our dreams; the lawfulness made usher, which imposes itself over legitimacy, our democratic raison d'être and our social hope; an autonomy that, paid financially and under conditions of usury, makes impossible the realization of the rightful, our democratic raison d'être and our social hope that allows us to face the need of a life that is the reality of a sense of reality. And, as we have never failed to do in this long way for full political freedom, we have before us all in the struggle. Because there has been a way of resistance, disobedience and mobilization, and in this way the role of anonymous people has been essential. Anonymities, sensillas, invisible. All of the letters in this statement are a recognizance of them. They are a tribute to so much perseverance, so much dignity and so much evil heritage. To the children they were working at the factory, like the Elionor, stuck in a box of skirts to be able to get to the TV, those same children who at school told them that their language was a language they didn't deserve to talk about or think about, and these children didn't understand why the language they loved their mother, so tired of so much work, could be so roused. They also heard it from the mothers and fathers of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, who demanded a public school that did not secrete their children by language of origin. To those works of metal·lurgia, many of whom came from the land of Lunyans, to whom the torturers of Via Laietana, those to whom the Transition guaranteed their impunity, will never forgive them that come here not only to work, but also to help to achieve all the freedoms denied. To the people who have suffered in silence humiliation, to those who have suffered, to those who still have to manifest themselves, to express themselves, because the anger inoculated at this people has been very great. To the people who have lauded the earth esteeming us all and each of the reasons. Those who have been deprived of freedom to fight for the defense of the rights of the collectivists. To those who have arrived in the past few years fleeing the misery of neoliberal globalization. Welcome to our home, if there are any houses. Welcome here, where diversity is rich, heritage, refuges, and in the problem, as some, for so many others, want to make them see, in their low ethical and moral. To all and every one of the people who know and feel that the time has come to write a new chapter in the history of this country, a new chapter that begins to write 'with three clear intentions: not to close it between the pairs of the institution, to add the widest possible majority and not to convert this majority into passive adherence, but into an active people, compromised with the articulation of a subject of popular descent and broad composition, which is the real protagonist of change and transformation. That's why we announce the opening of a process is not subordinate. That's why we announce the processing of three laws, the first of many that will come, that will be key to the articulation of legality that we will need to include in the new political legal order and in the nine institutions that allow us to govern. That's why we're announcing the democratic disconnection of the Spanish State. Because we're doing a democratic exercise that requires you not to support the wishes of a state that doesn't represent us. Because the future of this people corresponds to deciding it for their people and no one else. No threats, no impossions, no pores. Because democracy is the will of the people, and democracy is to ensure that the law that is in agreement with the interests of the majority cannot be revoked or prohibited by any other instance. That is why we are bringing to this chamber a first proposal for measures to protect fundamental rights; a proposal that is still limited from the majority that we have, which is not from the popular will that was expressed at the polls on 27 September; a majority that we would like more unequivocally to be independent and to win more rights, more feminist, more ecological, more solid, but that is, in any case, the majority of which we have to go to win more rights. An annex to the whole future: an energy-poor ILP for a cold, set, or dark winter; a denunciation without reallocation; a country without Wert law or bitten law; the immediate end of health apartheid; the instigation of the renegotiation of the debt that mortgages the future and engulfs voracious markets; the battle against LRSAL, in defense of the municipalism that vertebrates the country; effective solidarity and immediate humanism, and the right to aversion. Because it would not be hot today to say that habitating, water, light and energy must be considered as fundamental rights. I, in change, say it, and repeat it, and defend it, and protect it. Because universal access to sanitation can never be vetoed, and less so when health apartheid is a flagrant and tolerated violation of human rights. Because it shuts down the privatizations of the primary care centers. The right to salvation, in this new republic that will come, will have to be a foundational pillar. And that's why it needs to be shielded from all those intents that claim to make of our rights and our assets merchandise that only fall into the profit accounts of a few. Because freedom of expression, demonstration and denunciation of police excesses that cannot take place in a free and fair republic must also be done. Because this town doesn't deserve Wert law, we don't respect it, we don't respect it. Because the right to education is this: a right to education. Public education, education in catalá, education that does not segregate by genera..., and that finances the elite schools; education that today also demands to overcome the LEC and work for a new brand that responds to the will to make education not a commodity, not a balancing concert, but an active, critical teaching space and that forms free people. And because it is urgent to regain the autonomy that has been stolen from our assemblies, the strength of the political and social change that will come, the same way that it is to give it a humane response to the crises generated by these armies, to which, on the other hand and unfortunately, we still contribute to financing with resources that are so necessary to cover the fundamental rights. And because it is also urgent to recover the sovereignty of the body of women and to take a first step to recover economic sovereignty, understood as the ability to decide on everything that is essential for the reproduction of life, absolutely handed over to the financial oligarchy and, to our humble hear, to a European Union that has been conceived to deny any possibility of articulating an alternative system to the capitalist. These are essential measures, of immediate application, of exemplarity, of unquestionable need, of blunt, clear and irrefutable message, of the country we already want to be: a country of which we are not ashamed day and day. They are not hidden measures of our anti-capitalist project, nor are they just transformation; they are not program measures, they are emergency measures. They do a miracle job, too: this is the country we have. And, above all, they are not measures that can be trays, so what is the abst of the conflict with the Spanish State. We are also calling for our democratic insubordination; nothing or anyone will prevent us from fighting the poor, from being supportive, from defending schools and hospitals, or from freely determining ourselves. With this statement, therefore, we address all the nations of the world with state to tell them that we only aspire and claim what we desire and yearn for all the peoples of the world: freedom, justice, democracy; to all the nations of the world without state, because we hope that our way to freedom will also be a longing for you. We are also heading to the Spanish State, with whom we will have to do, late or late, an obvious exercise in the distribution of assets and liabilities. We go to his execution, to his army and to his courts: "Look at us in the eye, hear our boats, and you will see a joyful, living and fighting people, who are evil in order to be. You will see no strikers, no supporters of authoritarianism or impositions. You will only see someone who has decided, democratically, to exercise fully the conditions of his freedom. And we address the peoples of the Spanish State so that they see in us the brotherhood expressed in the form of a heart. Our internationalism claims sovereignty in order to be able to unfold in its fullness. We will always be on the side of those who also believe that it is a new political, economic and social rule for all and every town in the State, but we can really be there if we can be free, just to be full. And we go to the people who today bring a new world to their hearts, so that today we don't end up with the new society, we take a first step towards the Catalan Republic, a first step to combat inequalities and exclusions by reason of class, origin or gender, and thus build a society of equals. And we're addressing the whole town. We have opened the door to our social protagonists and have the opportunity that struggles, social movements, the very rich organized network of the country, make the challenge of laying new foundations for the political and social system. Never again a country without its people; the time of the elites has run out. And we do it from the Catalan countries, to which there is still no room for them to recognize who they are, our real political subject, the real transformation project. For this reason, at the same time as this declaration, we continue to work for national construction, because, in the same way that resistance has allowed us to arrive here today, the conviction that the country is sincere and does not express itself only on one of its parts will bring to a conclusion the right of any people to its full self-determination. We're Catalan Countries. In the plethora of the month of generation of 2013 we claimed our full sovereignty. The parliament then called for a binding consultation that allows you to collect the popular will to self-determine. The Spanish State, through its Constitutional Court, prevented this reference, and the reference was not finally made. But now just a year ago, two million people challenged the regime and voted in one of the most massive acts of civil disobedience in Europe's recent history; one year after the Constitutional Court, which wanted to de-authorize the democratic expression of our people, was definitively de-authorized for this very people. Today, this Parliament will declare it delegitimized and uncompetenced. Now, more than two years later and after continuing massive demonstrations of democratic demand, the Catalan chamber, again, continues to exercise our political representation under the threat of repression on the part of those who continue to control the apparatuses of this Spanish State. This chamber will do a democracy exercise today, because it will lay the foundations on which we should be able to return full sovereignty to this people. And it has the endorsement of the results of 27 September, results that we want wider in the future reference of ratification of the process constitute and proclamation of the new republic. It also has the full support of the lawfulness of international law, which recognizes the right of all peoples to self-determination, which strongly demonstrates that if a state repeatedly denies it, it only leaves the possibility of its materialization in the path of democracy. We therefore present to you the proposal for a declaration proposed jointly with Juntes per el Si, in an exercise of unity of practical action, of concrete truth. We also announced that the presentation for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that it would seem that it can incorporate some of the elements that we have made, it will not, therefore, be able to repress our support, because it does not go back to what is fundamental, the element of non-subordination essential for the materialization, now and here, of any plane of rescue city. This autonomy offered financially, politically and legally, has ceased to be a valid _marc to decide everything that affects us. The autonomy is already, in the eyes of the great majority, where the independenceist left has always denounced: an instrument subordinate to the State, completely useless to govern us as a people. State, monarchy and autonomy do not serve the popular classes. We are convinced that the path to this new country is only irreversible, and we will do so with the values of republicanism, as a new way of hearing people's relationship to power and to establish a new public ethic, based on decency. Hello and Republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.5.0	Next is the parable of the illustrious Lord Joan Coscubiela, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot... [[Proposal for a resolution on the prioritisation of a city rescue plan and the initiation of a process]] [[250-00002/11]] ...to present the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.6.0	Good morning, Madam President. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to be to denounce and reject our murders, our cases of male violence produced yesterday. There have been no Catalan women this time, but they are also our women. [[Greetings.]] If the later legislature ended badly, this cannot begin worse: a president in office who has to give political explanations and his party, Convergence Democrática de Catalunya, answer judicially to accusations that are hard to finance irregularly; a_table of the Parliament that acts absolutistly and a president who breaks the Rules that he promised to respect, and, finally, to adopt, three parliamentary groups that bring the solution of a political problem to the Constitutional Court. The perfect ingredients for a party politics of bunkers, blocks, that seek mutual feedback in conflicts, while oblivion the daily problems of the people. Together for the Yes and the UPC have all the right of the world to want to discuss their resolution, all the right to stage and stage their negotiations to invest the President, but they have no right to paralyze the Parliament and the Government, while dramatic situations are seen on the street. Citizenship expects us to focus all our efforts on a situation of social emergence that sees broad sections of the population. I know that you know this, but I think it's worth remembering today: 660,000 people in Catalonia, 275,000 of whom are more than two years old; 381,000 of these people in Catalonia do not cover any form of work; 116,000 unemployed young people, and women sentenced to part-time contracts to maintain a patriarchal society structure; the child poverty rate with 29_percent of the child population; one thousand and hundreds of jobs in the automotive sector at risk of disappearing; Solvay de Martorell's company at risk of closing its installations; Catalonia, the leader of denominations in Spain, 25_percent of the denominations produced in Spain are in Catalonia, thirty every day he skips the political government while some people can intervene; 160.percent of the denominations produced in Spain are in Catalonia. It is this, the social-emergency scenario with which we realize this Ple of Parliament, and, instead of the first initiative of this Parliament being, for example, the guaranteed income of citizenship, the only thing that happens to Joints for the Yes and the UPC is to devote all of its efforts and those of Parliament to a menu of departure, strategy or risk play. Of course, we know that in order to face this situation of social emergence, Catalonia needs more political power and more economic resources. But it's fake, it's cheating, and it's unfair for the citizenry that it's pathetic to say and it's still insisting that it can't be done unless a certain status, that of independence, is settled. From the outset, what could be done, for example, is that Catalonia's Democratic Convergence has not given support to privatising policies such as austerity saving, having not voted for laws such as labour reform, having not voted for laws such as fiscal stability or the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, which are at this time offensive to Catalonia's government and finances, and which are behind this social disaster; having not aspired, for example, to the protection of the mortgage market, as has been done, from the right to the habitation of the citizenry. Yeah, I know that's not what you think it's about today, but that's what the people that it's about, the people that are patenting these circumstances think. All this, all this has done Democratic Convergence in Spain, and now he can't come to Catalonia to complain and cry about the consequences of his votes in Spain. And above all you can't make us believe that with a little bit of varnish this furniture will be restored and suddenly and again it will be converted either as an anti-capitalist or as a social democrat. No, I'm sorry, but we're not that chubby. Catalonia Yes, I can bet clearly on a constituent process, we have always said so and we ratify it in our motion for a resolution; that is why we insist on it. But we will never tell people that this process is incompatible or that the people who suffer must wait to achieve this ideal in order to advance in their rights. We want the day-to-day utopia for children or the day-to-day utopia of guaranteeing the rights to housing and light to be perfectly possible with the advancement of the national rights of this country. Catalunya Yes, it is possible to reject the proposal presented for Junts for the Yes and the CUP, and we have presented our own alternative proposal, our full route. I want to explain why we reject it. From the outset we believe, sincerely, from respect, that it starts from a trapping interpretation of the results of September 27th. On 27 September, he did not give any legitimacy or democratic mandate to speak on behalf of all Catalonia, nor much less to make a unilateral declaration, he said of independence or of the iniquitousness of an independent state or of disconnection process. No, this requires a democratic act that can only be in the form of a reference. Certainly, and in relation to the vote, a lot of people during the election campaign, among them the CUP, made it clear that without a majority of more than 50_per_cent it was not possible to initiate a unilateral process like this one presented to us today, despite the fact that some have forgotten. How can you explain to us that for a reform of the Statute of Autonomy two thirds of the Members are needed, that is, more than ninety Members, and, in change, for the beginning of the creation of an independent State, there is no shortage of 72 out of 135 Members? There are things that don't fit. As much as they repeat it, you don't have the legitimacy to set us up with this resolution, but yes, you don't have..., to make the reading they make. Secondly, for us it is about a reading that starts and is based on a self-deception; a self-deception that some of you know is a deception, but a deception that can only bring frustration, except that someone thinks that the solution of this climate that we have at this time goes through the policy of "how worse, better, that if it causes a train crash it will promote a revolutionary dynamic, as it has been said these days. Honestly, I don't think it's like that, and it's the opposite. You are immersed in a veritable escape forward, with a proposal that is a sack ass, with the sole objective of staging the investiture of the president and, some, saving the chair of the president of Mr. Mas. In this sense, you even went against the Council's recommendations for the National Transition, which had been trying all this time to try to cover all its legal, legal, and very complex issues, but I had tried to do so. Thirdly, you are sending us a statement that it is a statement of insurgency, that it is as curious as it is inviable. Because it is true, it is a statement of insurgency that is full of rhetoric, thick words, many adjectives, very epic, but in what they forget to tell us how they intend to achieve the triumph of this insurgency that they propose to us. And you know that between the intensity of the targets and the intensity of the media there must be a certain proportion. All you have to say is institutional declarations from the Catalan Parliament and laws of disconnection. And they tell us that our reference proposal has already passed through the screen. Listen, if anything has passed the screen is that of the institutional statements of the Parliament of Catalonia, which endure the time that are revoked by the Constitutional Court. And you know it. From this point of view, the fourth element I want to raise is that the behavior of Junts for the Yes – and I mean, Junts for the Yes – in this resolution is loaded with phariseeism. On the same day that you presented it in the Parliament of Catalonia, when you disobeyed the sentences of the Constitutional Court, the Catalan Government, presided over by Mr Mas, agreed to file two appeals against two Spanish laws to the Constitutional Court. What are we staying at? Is it subtended or is it not subtended? Or apply disobedience? It's just that if you don't believe it yourself... that's why I think this is loaded with phariseeism. They plant them, more – they plant them, more – in relation to the Constitutional Court, disobedience. All right. One question: also, disobedience, disobedience to the judgment in relation to the labor reform voted by the People's Party and Convergence and Union, or does that feeling already fit them in their model of pre-charitable labor relations? What's wrong? The laws of disengagement from Spanish social security are then introduced to us as well. And the question that I and the citizens ask us is the following: and after approving this law, what? Who's gonna pay the pensions? If there's no agreement, I'm sure he'll continue to pay you the social security bill. In the last place, your resolution ends, if I may, with a clever proposal: to communicate all this to the Spanish State and to the European Union. I have doubts as to how they intend to communicate this to the European Union. What do they think they're communicating with him? , that from then on the Parliament of Catalonia will only complement the laws of the European Union that seem good and the judgments of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg that seem good? Is that what they communicated to the European Union? And then, shall we ask for support? No, no, it's not going this way. This is an insurgency statement, but it's a paper insurgency statement. That's why we're planting a full alternate route. In the first place – for the whole legislature – the approval of a city rescue plan, which must take as an epicentre the guaranteed income of citizens. And, of course, I would like to take this opportunity to greet the representatives of the ILP platform who are struggling because this issue has not been abandoned or relegated to the work of this Parliament. And we believe that we should seek resources, meaning doubt: we develop them in our resolution proposal; resources that go through the rationalization of all public spending programmes. There's a lot of... how to save or spend better. For example – for example – restructuring the government's public debt with central government. And here we find the complicity of other autonomous communities that agree with us. For example, working for a better amount of tax collection with taxes that are as good as given, reducing fraud and reforming the inheritance and donation tax. The second element of our proposal is a constituent process, which has as its main objective the return of sovereignty to the citizenry in front of economic powers and markets. Because this is the real battle of sovereignty in the 21st century; a sovereignty that for us includes the right to decide freely how Catalonia wants to organize itself politically and what relationship it wants to have with the rest of the nations of the Spanish State. A process is that of the exhaustion of the political system born of the Transition; a process is that it is to face the strengthening of forms of participatory democracy without denying representative democracy; that it is to guarantee the division of powers, avoiding abuses of the figure of the law decrees, in Spain, but also in Catalonia, because things like the famous law decrees are not happening; that it is to recognize that access to the person's phonenal rights must be based on social citizenship, not nationality; that it must contain the bases of a new electoral law that guarantees the proportionality of the vote. A process is not subordinate to any other political mark, but it is not autonomous; there is nothing autonomous in the world of interdependence: we cannot constitute ourselves as a village of Galla of the 21st century. A process is to take as a starting point the celebration of the referendum, because it is not possible to build good things and deny the word to the people of Catalonia: some who forbid it and others who already want to give it for amortization and speak on their behalf. We say it to ourselves, but he has said it every time that he has been given the opportunity Alex Salmond, Prime Minister of Scotland; he has said it repeatedly. I know that it's a process, our proposal, that it's hard, that it's slow, and, on occasion, blocked for the bunker of immobilism. By the way, speaking of the bailiff, with all due respect, Mr Albiol, this was not "xulria," this was democracy. If, in years of anger, no one has any kind of doubt that you won all the battles, but as democracy has gone, this battle has lost it. And sooner or later, Catalonia's citizens will decide in a free and democratic way how they want to organize their future. This is why we propose – we propose – a way for the reference, a way that has been endorsed at different times for people like Carles Viver or Rubio Llorente, but we are willing to accept suggestions in another way; a reference agreed, yes, and we gave it very clearly, because it is the only way that can be celebrated in conditions of legal and political effectiveness. And let's not just say it to ourselves; Alex Salmond said it, and I must insist on it. And we propose a deadline date: 2016. We plan to accompany our proposal for mobilizations, as always, and support, of close support to Spain and Europe. Some of us have done the work and present ourselves here with the support of people like Podemos, United Left, Aragonese Chunta, Commitments of the Valencia Country, the assemblies of the change, the European Greens, while others are interested to add adversaries in place of accumulating or adding allies. Supports rendezvous and mobilization in favor of the reference. All the great conquests of civilization have been achieved from mobilizations and acts, if allowed, from disobedience or disobedience, and we are aware of this: the right of vagaries, the right to vote of women; they were not recognized in the legislation of their moment and they were only conquered after decades of workers' struggles and women's struggle. But they were made to append the maximum number of people, not to divide them, but to append them, adding them, cohesiveing them. We sincerely believe that our proposals maintain the basic balance between radicality and viability: they are radically democratic because we want to start this process with an act of empowerment of the citizenry, which is the celebration of the referendum, and they are viable because they have all the strength of democracy and because they can have more support for Catalonia and more support for Spain, Europe and the world. They are viable on the condition that we do what has always been the result of Catalonia – you remember, those who have been, the time of the Assembly of Catalonia. What? Adding as many different forces as possible to Catalonia, with a shared objective, for as long as possible, and we have not yet resorted to everything, that of the reference, and for as long as possible, attached. And, in addition to being very and cohesive in Catalonia, trying to search for allies from Catalonia, from the State and Europe. What we pose is exactly the opposite of what makes the Junts resolution for the Yes and the CUP, that each time it reduces political support more, and does not seek allies, but that it manufactures adversaries rau of the world. That's why I want my last words to be to cry out all the political, social forces, which at some point have been in favour of the right to decide to regroup democratically in the defense of a process, are that I have as starting point the celebration of the referendum in 2016. This is our full route; we think it's radical and viable at the same time, and the present before what we think is a bag ass, which is Juntes' proposal for the Yes and the UPC. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.7.0	Next, for the defense of the papers presented and to express the position, has the parable of the illustrious Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.8.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during my political life I dedicated myself exclusively to the municipal world. I've had the honor of being mayor of my city, Badalona. Being mayor of your city is possibly one of the most beautiful and enriching responsibilities a politician can have. You're starting a new path as a deputy in this chamber. Representing the people of Catalonia means for many Catalans, for many men and for many women the culmination of a public vocation. For this reason, I can assure you that when, at the length of time, in multitudes – in multitudes – of occasions, I thought of the possibility of taking up this great responsibility, I never went through the idea that the day of my first intervention in this plenary would be a historic session; a historic session to defend the integrity of my land, Catalonia, and the unity of my country, Spain. The motion for a resolution presented by Juntes per el Si and la CUP, with an indissimulated will to initiate the process of breaking the constitutional and constitutional legality, as well as the standards of coexistence of what we enjoy in Catalans, intend to convert this process of breaking into a personal and collective salvation operation of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and of a president – you, Mr. Mas – immersed in an agony that is the protagonist of the leftist anti-stanza and more radical of all Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that we are debating today means bringing all Catalans to the path of uncertainty, directing them to the unknown, as well as the breach of the state of law in Catalonia, since it is overtly subversive because it attempts against the state of autonomy and the territorial integrity it represents, which solemnizes the Spanish Constitution. For the members of the People's Party of Catalonia the world is every time more open, more modern, more advanced. That's why we can't leave Catalonia's future in the hands of out-of-the-box and out-of-box projects; in a globalized world, no one is wondering where we're coming from, but where we're going. Mr Mas, Members of Catalonia's Democratic Convergence, do you really believe that the majority of Catalans are betting to follow that path? Do you believe that Catalan society is taking part in a project, in a proposal that envisages the disconnection of the Spanish State, as you say, and therefore of Spain and the European Union? Be honest, do you really believe that? We are a living, dynamic society, and we are thanks to the effort and work of the 7_million_and_half Catalans who live on this earth. But we are also thanks to the efforts of generations of men and women, some born here and others many arrived from other parts of Spain, Andalusians, extremists, Galicians, Aragons, Castilians, all from all the lands of Spain, men and women who came to Catalonia in the fifties and sixties to earn a living working 14 hours a day to raise a family, struggling to be able to take their children to school, and who, with their efforts, also put their grain of sand to raise this land. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that all these men and women are proud to be Catalan adopters, people who love this land, but who do not want to have to give up their origins, do not want anyone to force them to choose between Catalonia and Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts pel Yes and of the CUP, I can say it louder but no clearer: from the People's Party of Catalonia we will not allow any Catalan, whether born or adopted, to use the passport to leave Catalonia. I'm the son of a Catalan and an Andalusian. And like me, thousands and thousands of neighbors in our cities. I was born in Catalonia and I want to continue living in it, but I am very proud of my origins and my country, which is Spain. My father, Andalusian, taught me to love and respect that flag that we have back there: the lady. And my mother – and my mother –, Catalan, to be proud of that flag that we have there: the Spanish one. And because I feel, because we are proud, very proud of what we are, Mr.Mas, I want to tell you, looking into your eyes, that neither you nor anyone will expel us from Spain. Therefore, today is the time to speak clearly, once and for all, to unmask the perversion of the terms: they intend to divide and separate through a rupturist process. That's not defending democracy. This process is not peaceful at all, and it is not because it blatantly violates the basic rules of freedom and tolerance that guarantee the rule of law and social peace. Ladies and gentlemen, independence is not the solution, independence is the problem. You don't go against Spain alone, but you go against the best Catalonia has ever done in its history. They have repudiated the spirit of that call for « union, fraternity and constancy, which launched before the liberal Cortes de Cádiz that great Catalan and great Spanish that was Antoni Capmany. Deputies of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and of Republican Esquerra, I want to ask you a question: What is the model of society that they offer us in a hypothetical Catalan republic? Is the program being defended by its CUP partners? Get out of the euro? Abandoning the European Union? To nationalize the productive, economic and financial sectors? Do you really believe that this is the model of a country we need? I'm sure they're not aware of the gravity of what they're doing, because they don't know what they're doing. Today there are millions of men and women who are following this debate, from Catalonia, and also from the rest of Spain. All these people must know that the Generalitat has the highest autonomous budget in Spain, that in Catalonia we have more competences than any other region of Europe. Well, you're putting everything at risk in an act of... irresponsibility, to protect and conceal your incapacity. While we are celebrating this plenary session, this debate, while you are devoting your time and effort to breaking Catalonia from the rest of Spain, 600,000 Catalans go out every day looking for a job. While you are devoting your time to creating state structures, 1_million_and_half Catalans live in precarious conditions. While Consellera d'Educació dedicates her time to opening institutes to vote in cardboard ballot boxes, today a year ago, 25,000 boys..., 25,000 boys and girls, instead of studying in conditions they do in barracks. Not to mention the 160,000 public health patients on the waiting list. And we here, dedicating our time to independence. They are indifferent to the fact that citizens are not guaranteed to pay for medicines or health concerts. They are not concerned that they are unable to pay for the dining grants or to cope with the payments of the municipal day care centres. It gives them absolutely everything. In December 2011, the president of the Generalitat, in a televised interview, ruled out initiating any process of the characteristics that we are dealing with today, as it would involve a division of Catalan society – said Mr. Mas in an interview. Indeed, today we can see not only that Catalan society has been divided – you were right, Mr Mas – but that there are many families who are suffering this division in their relations. Make it clear that we are not going to feed that division, nor that frustration, nor are we going to respond to their excesses with more excesses. We're not going to... when some people talk about the train crash, they know that when someone goes down the road there's no crash, there's a suicide. Mr President, despite having the parliamentary majority, you do not have a social majority, not even by far. Therefore, as we proposed in the amendment we have tabled, we urge you to abandon the independence process and the policy of separation and confrontation between Catalans of the last government of the Generalitat. The new government must be set up to be that of all Catalans, so that more than half of Catalan society cannot be ignored or despised. We also ask for a bet on sincere and loyal dialogue, within a legal framework of the Statute of Catalonia and the Constitution. With all Catalans and the Government of Spain as a way to ensure the peaceful coexistence and democracy that guarantees our rights. [[Long break.]] Also, ladies and gentlemen, we want to focus on our proposal to defend the efforts of the new Government of the Generalitat to contribute to creating a climate conducive to economic growth and fundamentally for the creation of jobs as the best way to fight poverty, guaranteeing social services and quality education and health. These are our priorities and not independence. Members of Parliament, at the end of my speech, I would like to convey a message of confidence to the millions of Catalans who also feel Spanish, as well as to the rest of the citizens of Spain. Today, the independence majority will adopt a resolution to start the path towards the break-up of Catalonia with the rest of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, who are following me on television or radio, have absolute security, have full assurance that neither Mr. Mas, nor Mr. Junqueras, nor the extreme radical left will break Catalonia from the rest of Spain. For many illegal and above all illegitimate proposals that can be approved today in this Parliament, the deputies of the People's Party of Catalonia have very clear ideas and a very high head to defend the interests of the men and women that we want to remain Catalan and Spanish. One day..., one day like today, twenty-six years ago, the Berlin Wall fell. You, Mr. Mas, intend to build that wall in Catalonia. I can assure you that we will not allow it – we will not allow it. Because beyond the ideology and the way of thinking that we have the majority of Catalans, not independentists, of feeling one or the other right-wing, one or the other left-wing, of being autonomous, federalist or Catalanist, here we are the deputies of the People's Party to put the voice of all the men and women that we want to continue to live naturally that shared feeling of being Catalan and that of being Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very special way the independent Members, and also for you, Madam President of Parliament: Visca Catalunya and live Spain! [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.9.0	Next, the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas has the word to position herself on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. Councillors, Mr President, Members, ladies and gentlemen, just over two hundred years ago, in Cadiz, a constitution was promulgated for the first time that said that the Spaniards were not subject but that we were citizens; free and equal citizens; citizens from the last person to the first, from the last person to the ruler, and that all those who exercised power, all those who governed had to respect the laws and justice as any citizen on foot. By the way, the president of these Cortes de Cadiz was a Catalan, and it has not been the only time, neither the first time, nor the last time that the Catalans participated in the great events of this country, the great historical moments and the reforms that Spain has always needed. This joy, this progress of the Constitution of Cadiz, sincerely did not last long. The joy lasted little because later there has been one of the blackest pages in the history of this country: we have had wars among brothers, we have had dictatorships, we have had confrontations between sides, and undoubtedly the last of the shadows, forty long years of Franco dictatorship. But in 1978, the Spaniards agreed again. And we knew, again, to put above what unites us before what differentiates us. And we had a new Spanish constitution, a Spanish constitution that promulgated principles as basic and important as union, as equality, as solidarity among people. And it also states that the rights are of the people and not of the territories. By the way, thanks to the Constitution and subsequent development, in Catalonia, today we can have the Parliament again, we have self-government, and Catalonia is one of the regions of Europe with the most competences, with the highest level of self-government. In parallel with this progress, we have all been building the European Union. The European Union, which is undoubtedly the largest area of rights and freedoms in the history of humanity – the largest area of rights and freedoms in the history of humanity. And we're very lucky to belong to her. I am not surprised that the ideologists of this rupturist statement, therefore, are gentlemen who do not agree simply with the European Union, who want to get us all out of the European Union, why for them other types of management and other types of models make people live better, right? In 2015, after this evolution, after so many years, there are some gentlemen here who want to throw away everything we have achieved in this country. And this statement is probably the most important challenge to democracy we have had in the last thirty years. But... why is that? Why is it a challenge to democracy? Well, look, because this statement says that from now on, the rulers will not have to account for justice. From now on, the rulers are going to be the ones who choose which laws they want to comply with and which ones they don't. That from now on the rulers, the same ones who force the citizen on foot to pay their taxes, to comply with the bureaucracy, to pay their fines, to go to justice..., those same rulers do not have to do so, because they have decided to make a declaration in Parliament that they say which are their courts and which are not. Well, we don't know what their courts are right now. I think there are many gentlemen here who are wishing to escape justice. And I'm not surprised; I'm not surprised that the political promoters of recent years are men who have fifteen seats seized by political corruption; who are immersed in the greatest case of corruption – of the elderly, because there is also to choose in this country, unfortunately – which is called « 3_per_cent; men who have their treasurer in prison, the treasurer, not the last councillor, no, no, the treasurer, in prison, without bail. These same gentlemen are the ones who promote a statement that they say that from now on state institutions and courts will not apply in Catalonia. That's funny, isn't it? How curious! I'm sure it's random. I am sure it is a coincidence that Mr Mas, the other day, at the appearance of Parliament, said and acknowledged that in an independent Catalonia he would not have to report to the Spanish courts. I am sure it has nothing to do with Mr Mas and the other gentlemen of the Convergence Summit being in this situation to make this statement today. Some gentlemen who had never been independent. I have a few statements from you, Mr. Mas, saying that independence was a very old thing, that was out of fashion. Mr Pujol said that'man, we are not leaving the European Union now. Now you seem to be the most independent of Catalonia. Surely it has nothing to do with, sure, the Pujol case, what they have found to the Pujol family or what they have found in the dome and in the way of funding Convergence. But, do you know one thing, Mr. Mas and gentlemen who push this statement? That this makes so little sense that you have not been able to convince a majority of Catalans, you have not been able to convince a majority of Catalans of this. And we've seen it in the past elections, some autonomic elections that you were working on reading in plebiscite code. Fortunately, we live in a democracy and in democracy there are no plebiscites, but you were committed to: "We are going to count votes. Well, votes were counted and you have not won what you intended to do in the past elections. And do you know who recognized this? Mr Baños, who has not spoken today, has spoken on behalf of the CUP Mrs Gabriel. They did not mention a statement by Mr Baños after the election: "The results meant a defeat of the plebiscit. I think the water's clearer. I mean, you don't respect democratic rules. You believe above democratic rules, you believe above the Spanish Constitution, above the Statute of autonomy, above the Rules of Parliament, but it is that above you do not respect your own rules, which you self-set for the past elections. No wonder they haven't convinced a majority of Catalans, because this is crazy. And I also say to you: you have had the longest and most expensive campaign in history, because look at whether you have been without cutting the tap of public money for years, feeding this debate: « Spanish robs us, « the fault of everything is Spain, « corruption, that is an invention of the sewers of the Spanish State. Well, I know, if with the longest and longest campaign in history you haven't been able to convince a majority of Catalans, I know if it makes little sense what you were proposing. And besides, you know it. You have repeatedly refused to request a legal report from the chamber, not a legal report from the Constitutional Court, no, no, from the lawyers of this Parliament to whom you claim to respect so much. They have refused, the President has also refused to ask for a legal report, because they know that this is outside the democratic and constitutional order. And, moreover, if you do not have Members to change the Statute, or to change the title of the Statute of Catalonia you have Members! Nor to change the electoral law! Will they want to declare independence? They do not have a social majority, they do not have a parliamentary majority to do so and, above all, they are not right. You are not right because what you are doing is, precisely, endangering our own self-government, the legislative capacity of this Parliament, which we have a lot of legislative capacity, as I said, one of the regions of Europe with the most capacity. You are putting it in jeopardy, because you are attacking the foundations of democracy. But he also told them that they had not been able to convince a majority of Catalans. Of course, but it's just that you haven't been able to, Mr. Mas, nor to convince most of your advisors. You don't even have the support of your government in full. Doesn't it tell you something that there are people who still maintain wisdom, think how they think and feel how they feel and have the ideology they have, who think this is crazy? And I don't say it, it's not that I talked to them, but that obviously the press has echoed these discrepancies and Mr. Homs, far from denying it, has said: "What needs to be done is to see who has been to leave. No, no, that is to say: "That is a lie, this conversation did not occur, no, no, Mr.Homs came to confirm that this had occurred. Doesn't it make you think, Mr. Mas, that you don't even have the support of your own government? Does it not make you think that perhaps this flight forward, that personal political exit from a complicated situation, which I recognize you, politically and judicially, does not make you think that perhaps it is not good for Catalonia? I believe that this statement is a contempt for the blood, sweat and tears that have cost us many Spaniards, for many years, to have a democracy; to have this Parliament as well; to have self-government; to be able to decide to be free and equal citizens before the law; to have rulers who do not think that they are above justice and the laws, but who cling like any other citizen standing before justice when it touches. Fortunately, you have been wrong, you have been wrong about a century and place to raise these things, because we are in the 21st century, in the European Union. And in the 21st century in the European Union calls for disobedience do not work, calls for politicians to choose which courts we like best. These old keys are not working thanks to the joint project of Spain and the European Union. Look, today is November 9th and it's just the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, a fact that united a country, united a country that was separate. What you want to do is just the opposite: to separate a country by raising a border in the middle of the European Union. And I recognize one thing for all the people who can be following us today, both within Parliament and outside: in this country there are so many things to change. This country is not the happy archadia that makes us believe some who are ruling at this time or others who at that time also ruled by another party. This country needs reforms, this country has rates of poverty, inequality, unemployment that are unbearable, inappropriate of a country as we want to be, in Spain and in the European Union. Corruption, corruption. That's good! You will be very calm, Mr. Mas, that Mr. Romeva and Mrs. Gabriel have spoken very little about corruption. I understand that you will be delighted, you want us to talk about independence, about electoral results in plebiscite, about democratic mandate. No, you don't want to talk about corruption, you don't want to talk to the judges, you're going to want to talk to Parliament. But I tell you one thing, you are using the legitimate feeling of many Catalans who want independence, who feel that independence is the best solution, on a personal issue, and that is outrageous. Not only that you are posing what you cannot do, not only that you are doing this when you have never been independentists for a personal benefit, but that you are using the legitimate feeling of so many Catalans who today think that the only way out of this situation is independence. This can't be allowed. Because, of course there are things to improve, of course I want to be independent of corruption, of corruption here and there, of cuts, of unemployment, of poverty, but we do not have to be independent of the rest of the citizens of Spain who, far from being guilty of this, are also sufferers of these problems like us. Spain must reform the, we must not break the and the Catalans have always been the driving force behind the great reforms that have taken place in this country, and we are not going to allow that at this moment in Spain, when a new political stage opens, the Catalans will not also be participants and drivers of a reform that will undoubtedly open up a new political scenario. And that is why we must not give up anything, nor our catalanity, every one of it, as I understand every one; nor the Catalan language, which is also ours – the Catalan language, which is also ours –; nor must we give up, nor do we want, our own self-government, to this Parliament, the legislative capacity that has been so hard on us. We don't have to give up anything to have a common project. Just as we are in Spain, we can be in the European Union, because citizens can always be united by common objectives. I remember article 1 of the Spanish Constitution: "National sovereignty resides in the Spanish people from whom the powers of the State emanate. And I would also like to remind the gentlemen of Catalonia that it is Pot, of Podemos, because what you propose also violates Article 1 of the Spanish Constitution. You want from now on the rights not of the people but of the territories, and we do not agree. We want fewer and fewer inequalities in this country. What you do is buy the speech that we will be better off if we increase inequalities within our country. We think that citizens have to have the same rights, live wherever they live, wherever they are, within this country. Moreover, we are working to ensure that within the European Union, we can increasingly better guarantee the rights and freedoms of all Europeans, live in the country they live in. And besides, I think you're failing or you're having a basic, conceptual error. You raise the right to decide – that invention, because what exists is the right to self-determination but not the right to decide – and you raise it only in Catalan. I ask you: "Will you defend the right to decide Hospitalet, for example, a people, a city where citizens have won, where I do not believe the majority of citizens are in favour of independence? Or will you just respect it wherever you want, where you say it? If we break article 1 of the Spanish Constitution, which guarantees that the rights lie with the people and not with the territories, we will be opening up to each people, to each municipality, to each neighborhood to exercise that supposed right. Look, we don't believe that in Spain, and less so in Catalonia – in the part of Spain that is Catalonia – the right of self-determination applies. Because the right of self-determination that exists, and with which we agree, applies, among other things, to territories subject to, to colonies. What a strange colony we are in Catalonia, aren't we? , that the President of the Generalitat wins more than the President of the Government of Spain ; or that the President of the Parliament wins more than the President of the Government ; or that we have legislative capacity to decide on health, on education, on taxation, on trade, on employment. What a strange colony we are in Catalonia to have the right to apply the right of self-determination. We believe that Spain must reform the, but not break the. Like the European Union, because the European Union also needs a lot of improvements, a lot, but the solution is not what these gentlemen propose to boost it, to get us out of the European Union, it is to reform it from within, from within the institutions. I think there is no one left here, there is no one left here in this country, and what has been heard in this Parliament is very serious. Here very serious political slogans have been heard regarding the rest of the Spanish people: « Spain steals from us, « if we did not have to pay the pensions of the rest of the Spaniards we would have much higher pensions. This promotes insolidarity and those who buy the discourse from the separatists, those who buy the speech from those who say Catalonia can make a referendum and separate us, because this is how we will live better, because this is how we will take away the poor who take away our resources, those are feeding insolidarity. There is nothing more insolidary in the 21st century than defending independence, because here we are very rich and in the rest of Spain they take away our resources. This, this we are doing today is a challenge, but we will overcome it. We will overcome it as we have overcome many other problems in this country, and we will do it together, and we will do it with dialogue, and we will do it by sitting back at a table. Because Catalonia and the whole of Spain when it has made the most progress is when politics has also been united, when politics has been willing to unite, to think more about what we can share and not about what separates us. We are convinced that we are going to bring this situation back, and it is not going to be easy. And it's not gonna be easy, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.11.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.12.0	Yes, I'm done, Madam President, right now. This is going to cost time, because this has been coming for many years, also from the governments of Spain, the PP and the PSOE looking away from what is happening in Catalonia, letting these messages from « Spain rob us, « in other autonomous communities take away the money, « take away our taxes... This is going to cost to prolong it, but we are going to get it, we are going to get it among all of us. Because we are going to vote no to this statement, to this statement that what it does is break the principles of democracy. But we are going to vote for democracy, for politicians to respond to justice, for rulers to be subject to laws like any citizen. We will vote yes to Catalonia, yes to Spain and yes to the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.13.0	Next, the illustrious Mr. Miquel Iceta has the word, to position himself on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.14.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that our parliamentary group believes that the motion for a resolution tabled by Juntes per el Si and the CUP should not have to be passed on to the Bureau of the Parliament; that we are going to ask the Bureau for a reconsideration of its decision to accept it, a request that was denied to us, as we were also denied the legal reports requested by the Bureau and the President of the Parliament on the content of the motion for a resolution that we are currently discussing, and that we also considered that the meeting of spokespersons that the Bureau has heard before finally rebutting our motion for a reconsideration was not the valid Board of Spokes established by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. For all these questions, we have applied to the Constitutional Court. We did not want to ask the Constitutional Court as a precautionary measure of the suspension of this House, because we understood that it did not feel like it; we wanted to ask the Constitutional Court for our rights as Members and as a parliamentary group. The celebration of the debate allows us and forces us to enter into the background of the question; it is a very important debate since it will not only condition the beginning of this legislature and the investiture process of the new president or president of the Generality, but will also greatly condition the future of Catalan politics. I want to share our thoughts with all of you, and each of you, independently of the group you are part of, without any prioriization, with the aim of asking them not to support this motion for a resolution. They ask them not to do so because I believe that the approval of this proposal, by placing the Catalan institutions out of the law, will harm us all hard, starting for those who intend to apply it a time that the Constitutional Court has suspected it, first, and cancelled it, later, as will happen with total security and absolute security, in a very similar process, perhaps even faster than the one followed by the Declaration of Sovereignty approved for this Parliament by the generation of 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now briefly explain the arguments which in my opinion justify my petition to all of you who vote in a negative way on this proposal. The first argument has to do with the supposed democratic mandate that would take over the motion for a resolution that we are discussing. It is clear that the elections of 27 September won them clearly together for the Yes, with sixty-two Members, with 1,628,714 votes, the 39.59_percent of the votes. The other candidate that defended independence was the CUP, which obtained two deputies, 337,794 votes, the 8.21_per_cent of these. Therefore, there is an independent majority to govern, but some wanted to give these elections a plebiscite character that the others denied. And yes to independence, following its criteria, applied 47,8_per_cent of the votes. The plebiscite didn't win. The statement is not mine; it was quoted earlier by the spokesman of the Ciutadans Group, by Inés Arrimadas. It's the CUP, September 28th, that makes that statement. David Fernández the 4th of August also said that the minimum needed was 50,01_per_cent and that from 55_per_cent the process would be, and I quote literally, "unstoppable, impeccable and will have absolute legitimacy. Those who did not vote Together for the Yes or the CUP, that is to say, the 52,2_per_cent of Catalans, rejected the plebiscite that some raised. It can certainly be said that in the negative votes there are subtle meanings, and they have been clearly expressed in the electoral campaign, and there are also subtle meanings in the affirmative votes: there was not to give strength to independence, which is now camouflaged in the euphemism of "disconnection, but there was also not to give strength to a possible negotiation, a negotiation that this proposal makes anything impossible. As it goes, today it cannot be said that there are a majority of Catalans and Catalans who support independence. The sum of votes of Junts for the Yes and the CUP is very much in line with the votes "yes-yes of the participatory process of 9 November of the past year– 1,966,508 now, 1,897,274 a year ago–, a date that seems to confirm that we are not in a scene of civic majority for independence. If, in order to gain independence, the plebiscite should win, as the plebiscite did not win, the main political objective of this legislature should be another, as many voters wished. This, from our point of view, is contradictory to the points that go from the first to the fifth and the seven points of the proposal presented by Juntes for the Yes and the CUP. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever has been the result of the elections, the object to acquit and the way to acquit it could never be the ignorance of legality, and this, from our point of view, disables the sis and eight points of the motion for a resolution that is presented today. The underlying claim of the proposal is to give in excess of the Constitution and the Statute, obliging that the constitutional reform obliges other procedures and majorities that are not the mere approval of a motion for a resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia and that changing the Statute requires the support of two thirds of the Parliament. That is why we also believe that the Bureau of Parliament should not have to accept this proposal, because it clearly distorts the institutional mechanisms necessary to achieve the objectives it seeks. Here, too, the importance of legal reports that will be denied. In this context, the new point of the motion for a resolution is not surprising, because it talks about starting negotiations after having made it clear that it does not recognize the institutions of the State from the approval of this text. Whose door will they call to negotiate hoping that someone will answer after they have denied all legitimacy to the Spanish institutions and their decisions? How will they explain this to the European Commission and the rest of the countries that recognize the legitimacy and legality of Spanish democracy? Perhaps it was not clear to the UN Secretary-General when he just said that Catalonia does not enter into the case of the territories that are recognised as the right of self-determination? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to an argument that has nothing to do with topicality, but that finds its reason to be in the lessons that political catalanism has after the length of history in dramatic ways. The first lesson is that, while political plurality is positive, it divides it from Catalans for what it does to the target of country affableix Catalunya. But there is a second lesson, even more timely for what we do to the debate that we keep today: history has shown us that placing Catalan institutions outside the law leads us to a sure defeat. I am not saying that this statement, as any of the statements we make, cannot be discussed and questionable, but they will have to accept that being outside the law is entirely reckless and will have consequences and unpredictable costs. They will understand, therefore, that the question I will ask you now is not absolutely rhetorical. Have they thought about the costs and consequences of placing Catalan institutions outside the law? I'm saying this because some of these costs and consequences don't just charge you, they can charge you over the city council. And I want to make it clear to them that they do not have a right; I want to tell them that, more than illegal, they do not have a democratic mandate to give a step of these consequences, and that when they act the mechanisms of the state of law and apply the law, they will not be able to find in us neither understanding nor solidarity. The six and eight points of the resolution are, from our point of view, an authentic disbanded – the word is not mine. If Parliament disobeys the legal framework in which its existence is based, how can it demand respect for its own institution and its decisions from then on? What will happen if some citizens of Catalonia decide whether to do some laws or not? If some citizens accept what this Parliament says and some others don't? , if other institutions in Catalonia decide that the standards derived from Parliament are not valid as they are controlled by Spanish laws? This Parliament has a power derived from the ballot box, yes, but the tea in the measure that arises from a democratic legality, which from now on is intended to be ignored. Have they calibrated the consequences of the decision they want to make? Who will say, from then on, what laws are to be obeyed and what are not? Who is it that will deal with the problems that you will work and the citizenry, in general, will have to face depending on which laws you observe and which ones you do not? Is this the legal certainty of what was being said? Is this the legal security that is the contempt of reports, sometimes also questionable, of the Council Counsellor for the National Transition? Legality there is only one, integrated by Catalan laws, Spanish laws, European directives and even all international treaties, with a normative hierarchy that, in case of doubt, only the Constitutional Court can resolve. The Constitutional Court is, at a later stage, the guarantor of the rights and freedoms of all citizens, and certainly also of the rights of Members of Parliament of Catalonia. You say that you want to disconnect from Spain, in the accounts of saying that you are making a unilateral declaration of independence, as a euphemism not to scare a part of your voters, but from the entrance what you ask is that we disconnect from the right state, and our parliamentary group does not want to disconnect from Spain or disconnect from the right state. If I may, you are disconnecting from the majority of the city, you are disconnecting from democratic legality and you are disconnecting from reality. I think they don't know where they're going and they don't have the right to water us all in a runaway in front of unbearable costs. And it is very interesting that a motion for a resolution that begins by saying that the Constitutional Court is delegitimized since the year 2010 contains references to appeals submitted to the Government of Catalonia before the Constitutional Court until two days ago. Is the Government of Catalonia wrong to ask the Emperor of the Constitutional Court when filing constitutional remedies or competing disputes? Why did the Government of Catalonia and this very Parliament go to an institution that the resolution's proponents consider to be delegitimized five years ago? It is cynical, or perhaps childish, and of a remarkable international ridiculous to accept the decisions of the arbitrator when they agree with us and reject them when we are not satisfied with their resolutions. That said, in my opinion, the Constitutional Court made a serious mistake in the ruling on the Statute. Do not forget the circumstances that the Court was going through at that time: vacancies, refusals, etc. In the same way that I say this and I said it then, I also say now, as I said then, that I must abide by the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, even though we do not share them. And I also say that no one can escape the import of the fact that the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the Declaration of Sovereignty or the Law of Consultations are unanimated, especially if it takes into account the presence in the Court of very different ideological sensitivities or the presence in the Constitutional Court of two notable Catalan magistrates, one of them, certainly elected at the proposal of this Parliament. Nor do we understand the reasons for adopting a resolution that is a mandate for the future government. From our point of view, a mandate for the future government derives from the commitments made in the investiture debate of the future president and from those that afterward are acquired by the same government or the parliamentary majority in which they support themselves. For what it says, the majority that are in the mood today to make this proposal approve has not come to an agreement for what it does to the investiture. The annex, in change, points to the contents of a future government agreement, but this is not the question now. Quite simply, this is a game of disarray: you have not felt the approval of mandates to a president and a government that does not yet exist; how to demand the urgency of assumptions to a government that does not yet exist, which happens with the motion for a resolution presented by the Catalan Parliamentary Group Yes, it is possible and we also want to value it. We shall be voting against it. They understand that this proposal responds to the political programme, which is respectable, but which we do not share, of another political force. There will be time, so let us hope, in the course of the parliamentary term, to discuss in depth the questions he proposes and to find points of conflict between our parliamentary group and that of Catalonia Yes, it is possible that they may help, among other things, but very mainly, in the process of deepening social justice. I just made a new reference to the motion for a resolution presented by Junts for the Yes and the CUP. I call on them to reflect on their responsibility to support a motion for a resolution which, along with resolving the problem of relations between Catalonia and the rest of Espanya, makes it worse; which, in view of showing strength to negotiate, closes the doors to negotiation, with the current government and with any of the governments that can form Spain from 20 December; on the one hand, we cling to independence, puts at risk the self-government; on the other hand, we must unite the Catalans and divide them even more. Adopting a resolution like this may have an explanation: it is intended to provoke a reaction on the part of the institutions of the State that apparently can give more arguments in favor of independence. They are mistaken if they think so; they find many Catalans that they voted for them not to provoke the State, but to force a negotiation that, in this way, will become impossible. On the other hand, I don't want to provoke a democratic state because I impose legality; it does because it's his reason to be. You won't find it, after you do it, support it, because you're the ones who've sorted out and skipped the law. There was only a solution through the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact, and this resolution makes it even more difficult. That's why I'm begging you again that I can't stand it. We are aware of the difficulty of the problem of the fit between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, we are aware of the discomfort of wide social sectors about the present state of things, we can share many elements of this discomfort, but, like the gods, they are only capable of resolving 'it through dialogue and respect for legality. In this effort they will always be able to find us, the Socialists of Catalonia; by the way of confrontation, provocation and illegality, no. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.15.0	Finally, in order to position themselves on the issues, the proposed parliamentary groups have the word, for a maximum of two minutes each. Illustrated Mr. Raül Romeva, Mrs. Anna Gabriel, have two minutes to distribute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.16.0	Thank you very much. Actually, this gives us a minute per group and so I will respect it. Going too far, as the evaluation of the reviews has already done, what I will do will simply be to make a couple of comments on some of the questions that have been raised. From the point of view of the democratic value and of what consequence this may have, remember a very simple thing: when the Scottish National Party took 44_per_cent, the State's answer was to call a reference; the same happened in the case of Canada and Quebec. Here we have a 48_per_cent, and the answer has been quarrels, attacks and insults. This is the reality we're in. Also an absolute 80_per_cent of this chamber, which was clearly in favour of making a reference. This is the situation we are in today, of permanent and constant blocking. That's why we did what we did. That no one forgets where we come from and no one forgets who is responsible, too, that we have come to this situation. Mr Albiol is quite right: no one is to be taken out of here, of course. But I would like your words to have a particularly worrying tone of cynicism, and it would be good if this speech were incorporated into the acceptance of "Viquipedia's cynicism", because, indeed, he made a speech absolutely, I believe, outside the content he touched. And, finally, also, to give time to Mrs. Gabriel, a question that seems to me phonental: from the point of view of what democratic legitimacy means at these times, I count it as usual, but at these times – at these times – if we had made a reference here, the result would have been clearly favorable to yes. And that can be counted as usual. [[remorse of the voice]] But reality – reality – is that. And, therefore, if some have so much difficulty in accepting the results, perhaps there were not so many difficulties in doing what it was necessary to do at the time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.17.0	Yes, very briefly, to position us in relation to the reviews. Both in Catalonia Yes, it's Pot as in the People's Party, many thanks for the data contributed in relation to the city and the poor, we know them, thanks. It is not a matter of finding, but of bringing solutions. We have separated the vote from our motion for a resolution understand that Catalonia Yes, it is Pot could vote on all those precepts which precisely in his speech called for them to be concerned, such as restructuring the debt. You've decided not to give support to the points of our statement. We are concerned; we are concerned that your referent is still feeling the reinforced majority of the two thirds to change the Constitution, and we are concerned that you are concerned about fighting insurgency, because we understand that this is not what the lefts want. In any case, today is a first step, of the many that have to come, we have also said, and we hope to coincide from now on. Perhaps from the Spanish elections, which we know mark a good part of your political agenda, perhaps later, you pass these elections, you will give that your people are also our people. And we won't get tired of trying to match up with you guys all over the place. And, in relation to the People's Party, in all aspects and in all intervention, highlight the only two things that we know how to see that they have meanings from a perspective of popular reality. There is only the fact that we are a living and dynamic society, it is true. And another...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.18.0	Mrs. Gabriel, you should be done. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.19.0	...recognizing the men and women who came here to work fourteen hours a day and raise this country; we know, we are her children and grandchildren, and I don't speak in her name. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.20.0	Illustrated Mr. Joan Coscubila, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.21.0	Thank you, Madam President. You know that there is one thing to life that is said to be the fallacy of the ballman; it is to make him tell the other that he did not say to be able to beat him better. Today we didn't have a ball man, we had a ball woman, in this sense. I'm just responsible for what I said, not what the others interpreted I said. From this point of view, let me tell you that today we are deeply convinced that the most important thing in Catalonia is a reference, the most important, the most important, the most important in Catalonia and the most important in Spain and Europe, and that there is no other possible way. We don't say that, Alex Salmond says. Can't talk about taking over the citizenry and continuing to deny the reference. It is certain that they forbid us from the People's Party and the Spanish bailiff; but it is certain that those who give this process for cushioning and want to pass the screen oblivion that without referring to Catalonia's citizenship will not have spoken legitimately and democratically. And so I put them back together: I don't know who's going to go to the place from whom, but I think we should all go to the only possible way, that it's to give the city of Catalonia a voice with a free reference, in which I can express what is the way he wants to live and build his future politically, and that talking on behalf of them is all the less taking them over. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Easy, easy, that's all we've just started.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.22.0	Respect the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.23.0	We cannot vote for the self-explanation that you have done, among other things because I think that you are putting the same thing back, that is to say, "We will only accept certain laws, and not others, and it is not our establishment. We offer the People's Unity Candidate – and we continue to do so – the agreement with regard to the first and second issue that they have raised to us. Not so with the third and the fourth, which devalues our whole approach, and we have told him that we are willing to vote for it separately; so that they can find a point of finding between them or us. If they accept it, we will be delighted; if not, we will have to vote in their globality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.24.0	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. Is there a separate motion for a vote? (Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.) There's the word Mrs. Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.25.0	Yes, President. To ask for pre-reading of the entire motion for a resolution, before the vote, and voting for separate points, point by point. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.26.0	Thank you. There's the word Mrs. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.27.0	Thank you, President. We would like to ask for a public vote on points 6 and 8 of Junts' motion for a resolution on the Yes and the CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.28.0	Are there any other groups...? [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak and the president gives her the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.29.0	Madam President, we also ask for the call separately from the six and eight points. [[Josep Enric Millo and Rocher ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.30.0	Mr Enric Millo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.31.0	Yes, Madam President; on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I also call on Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure to call for the joint vote on points 6 and 8 of the resolution. [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.32.0	There's the word Mrs. Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.33.0	Madam President, when we're told the purpose of the vote by cry, we're told that it's because you've been clearly identified as the vote of every member of Parliament. For us, it is clear who the vote of each of the Members of this Parliament is if the vote is done in an ordinary way and by electronic vote, because, obviously, the vote is not secret. Therefore, we ask to proceed to vote on this petition, so that we can oppose the vote by appeal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.34.0	Okay. We shall now proceed to the vote to decide whether to put the two motions for a resolution to the vote by vote. [[Pause.]] So, we'll start the vote now. Affirmative votes are in favour of making the public vote by calling – assertive votes. And the votes denied, against the public vote for cry. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The results are: "Yes, 52; "No, 71; "Forbearance, 11. The vote will therefore be taken in an ordinary manner. We shall now proceed to the reading of the first point, of the motion for a resolution. The Vice-President of the Bureau will read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.35.0	« First. The Parliament of Catalonia notes that the democratic mandate obtained in the past elections of 27 September 2015 is based on a majority of the parliamentary forces that have the objective that Catalonia becomes an independent state and a large majority of the sovereignist in votes and votes that bet for the opening of a process constitute non-subordination. Second. The Parliament of Catalonia solemnly declares the beginning of the process of creating an independent Catalan state in the form of a republic. Third. The Parliament of Catalonia proclaims the opening of a process as a citizen, participant, open, integrator and act in order to prepare the basis for the future Catalan constitution. Fourth. The Catalonian Parliament urges the future government to take the necessary measures to make these declarations effective. Five. The Catalonian Parliament considers it appropriate to initiate, within 30 days, the processing of the laws of the constituent processes, of social security and of public history. Yes. The Parliament of Catalonia, as head of the Sovereignty and as the expression of power constitute, reiterates that this chamber and the process of democratic disconnection of the Spanish State will not be subject to the decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State, in particular of the Constitutional Court, which considers that there is no legitimacy and competence arising from the June 2010 judgment on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, voted for the people in referendum, among others. Seven. The Catalonian Parliament must adopt the necessary measures to open up this process of disconnection of the Spanish State in a democratic, massive, sustained and peaceful way, which allows the seizure of citizenship to all levels and is based on an open, active and inclusive participation. Wait a minute. The Catalonian Parliament urges the future government to comply exclusively with the norms or mandates emanating from this legitimate and democratic chamber, in order to shield the fundamental rights that may be affected by decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State, as specified in the annex to this resolution. New. The Catalonian Parliament declares its willingness to start negotiations for the democratic mandate to create an independent Catalan state in the form of a republic, and agrees to put it in the knowledge of the Spanish State, the European Union and the international community. Annex to what the eighth point refers: "Measures to be implemented by the future government, intended to shield affected rights of the state institutions by decisions of the state institutions. First. Poor energy. In order to ensure that no person is deprived of access to basic sub-administrations, the future government must deploy measures to prevent the energy poverty approved by Law 24/2015 of 29 July 2015 of urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty, so that the right of access to basic sub-administrations of drinking water, gas and electricity to family persons and units at risk of residential exclusion is guaranteed, while this situation is harsh. Next. Habitat. In order to ensure that no person is deprived of access to a decent habitat, the future government must work in the application of the new standard framework regulating Law 24/2015 of 29 July 2015 on urgent measures to address the emergence in the field of housing and energy poverty. In this framework, the future government must ensure that, in processes of denunciation of habitual housing affecting persons and family units at risk of residential exclusion, the principle of adequate reallocation of the affected persons and family units is fulfilled in order to be able to carry out the denunciation. Thus, as a matter of urgency, the future government has to undergo long-term regulatory changes that make it possible to make effective the provisions of the Law 24/2015, as is the case of the Operating Rules of the months of valuation for the award of housing for situations of economic and social emergencies and for other cases of special needs in the field of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia. Third. Sanitary. In the field of health policies, the future government must guarantee universal access to public and quality health care, through the Catalan Health Service – CatSalut – to all people living in Catalonia. No person may be expelled for reasons of origin, whether or not he or she has the condition of insured or beneficiary of the National Health System, and regardless of whether or not he or she is in attendance. Thus, no city can be deprived of pharmaceutical assistance for economic reasons. In accordance with various resolutions approved by Parliament, we cannot have competitions for the management of primary care centres in the long term. Wednesday. Education. The Parliament of Catalonia filed an unconstitutional appeal against a good part of the article of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, of better educational quality, appeals which it admitted to be filed on 3 April 2014. In this challenge, supported by the advice of the Board of State Guarantees, it was argued that the contested precepts of the said law are contrary to the competences which correspond to the Generality in this matter, contrary to the Catalan educational model determined by the Law of Education of Catalonia and contrary to the consensus obtained for the conjunction of the educational community. In line with this appeal, the future government must go ahead in its education activities for the full effectiveness and respect of the competences established in favour of the Catalan administrations and to maintain the consensus obtained for the joint educational community. Five. Guarantee of public freedom. The Parliament of Catalonia filed an unconstitutional appeal against some articles of the Organic Law 4/2015, of citizen security, appeals that it admitted to court on July 21, 2015. In this appeal, supported by the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, it was argued that the contested provisions of the law are contrary to the fundamental rights enshrined in international texts such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or the European Convention on Human Rights and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. Consistently with this appeal, the future government has to age in its action in the matter of citizen security for full force and respect for the stated fundamental rights. Sisena. Local administrations. With the aim of guaranteeing the full powers of local Catalan administrations in the service of general interest, the future government must provide them with the necessary support tools to make the requirements of the State Law 27/2013, of 27 September, of rationalisation and sustainability of the local administration, promulgated as a result of the Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, of presuppositional stability and financial sustainability, dictated in development of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, relative to the limitation of competences to local authorities, to the control of the cost of services and to the obligation of priority of private economic activity. Seven. Refugees.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In order to be able to respond to the difficult humanitarian situation faced by refugees, the future government must generate a framework of relations with the High Commission of the United Nations for Refugees – UNHCR – with the aim of giving welcome and asylum to the maximum number of refugees, beyond the decisions taken in this area for the Spanish Government. Vulture. Right to abhorrence. In the matter of the right to abortion, the future government must be governed by what is stipulated in Law 17/2015 of 21 July 2015 on the effective equality of women and men. Ninth. Financing of a social insurance scheme and management of the debt. In order to free up resources to finance a social security scheme, the future government must establish, among other measures, negotiating ways to reduce the burden of the debt at the expense. First, the future government must encourage the renegotiation of all structured finances, separating payments that compensate for a service – investment and maintenance – from those that constitute an excessive payment in respect of the type of interest and current inflation taxes. Thus, the future government must liken the concessionaires or surfaces to redefine structured contracts, transforming the depreciation of investments into ordinary finance by mediating public debt and eliminating the excessive cost of capital. This transformation, which must allow for a reduction in costs for the Generality which can be used to finance the social welfare plan, must be accompanied by a review of the budgetary expenditure programmes which will enable it to be assessed and contrasted with its usefulness at times when meeting the social urgency has been the highest priority of the Generality's expenditure, expressed in the Plan of Action. The students who are obtained from the revision of programs must go entirely dedicated to the social welfare plan. In order to follow up on the effectiveness of this objective and compromise, the future government must create a working group open to parliamentary groups. Thus, the future government must set up a calendar of meetings with the resident bankers to study the possibility of renegotiating the payment of interests for social purposes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.36.0	Call it a vote. Looks like they're all here. First of all, we will vote on the motion for a resolution on the initiation of the political process in Catalonia as a result of the results of the elections, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Cree Constituent. Let's vote on this proposal point by point. We are voting, therefore, on the first point of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. It was approved by 71 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. We are voting now on the second point of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. Let's move on to the third point. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. We are voting now on the fourth point of the motion for a resolution. It was approved by 72 votes to 62, with 0 abstentions. We are voting now on the fifth point of the motion for a resolution. The vote's on. It was approved by 72 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. We are voting now on the sixth point of the motion for a resolution. The vote's on. It was approved by 72 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. We are voting now on the set point of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the eighth point of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 62, with 0 abstentions. We are voting now on the new point in the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the annex, which has been presented as an addition to the eighth point. The vote begins. It was approved by 72 votes to 63, with 0 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Let's continue with the session... [[The applause continues.]] Thank you. Next, we vote on the motion for a resolution on the prioritization of a civil rescue plan and the initiation of a constituent process, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. The vote begins. It was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 114 against and 10 abstentions. Thank you very much. And the session goes up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.37.0	The session begins. [[Agenda debate and investiture vote by Mr Arthur Mas and Mr Gavarró, candidate for the presidency of the Generality]] [[201-00001/11]] The only item on the agenda of this plenary session is the debate on the programme and the investiture vote of the very honourable Member, Mr Arthur Mas and Mr Gavarro, to the Presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 146.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, the investment debate begins with the reading of the Resolution of the President of the Parliament in which the candidate for the Presidency of the Generality is proposed. I pray to the secretary before I give a reading of this resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.38.0	"According to Article 4 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and once consulted the representatives of the parties and political groups with parliamentary representation, proposed to the chamber the deputy Arthur Mas and Gavarró as candidate for the Presidency of the Generality. Palau del Parlament, November 6, 2015. The president, Carme Forcadell i Lluís.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.39.0	The candidate proposed, the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas and Gavarró, has the word. The candidate for the presidency of the Generality (Artur Mas and Gavarró ) Madam President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Members of the Bureau, Madam Vice-President of the Government of the Generality, Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, President Rigol, President Benach, President Gispert, Members and Councillors, in agreement with the mandate of the President of the Parliament, I present before this Chamber to formalize the candidacy for the investiture as President of the Generality of Catalonia, present the government program and ask them, if ladder, their confidence. This candidacy is the result of the democratic mandate rejected at the polls on September 27th. In those elections, the coalition that is now proposing to me obtained almost 40_percent of the votes, sixty-two deputies, and more than 1,600,000 votes, a figure that had never been cast in the previous elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, in a long period of time ranging from 1980 to 2015. In the same way, as it has been repeated in these past weeks, participation in the elections of 27 September also took place in a number of parliamentary committees in Catalonia. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the democratic endorsement with which it is presented Together for the Yes is very solid, very firm and very clear; an endorsement reinforced, moreover, by the fact that it has remained as strong as most voted to all and each of the forty-two districts of Catalonia and a 96_percent of the votes of the 947 municipalities of Catalonia. Beyond Junts for the Yes, with a historical participation of 75_per_cent, known, the votes have tied an absolute majority indisputable to the parties favoring the independence of Catalonia. It is the first time in history that there is a clearly independent majority, formed by seventy-two Members and Members. No one can attribute silent majorities, the recourse to silent majorities has ended, the ballot boxes have spoken and the result is clear: the absolute majority of supporters of constituting an independent state, the yes not up for a little bit to 50_per_cent and the one does not care for 40_per_cent. In previous cases of multi-national and democratic states, with results not as clear as the one obtained in Catalonia, they have agreed and had to eventually refer to independence. Escócia, Regne Unit, and Quebec, Canada, are clear examples. In both cases the popular support was lower than the one obtained for the sum of Junts for the Yes and the CUP. In quality democracies, they fit or build legal marks to give out to the civic will expressed in the ballot boxes; in low quality democracies or in pseudo-democracies, the prosecution, the police and the courts are used to stop or abort the popular will; from these two types of states, to whom would the living please? What's it worth fighting for? The Spanish State and, above all, the central government continue to deny the reality of what is happening in Catalonia and try to prevent democratic expression by a people throughout the media; of a people, certainly highly mobilized, as demonstrated by the four last massive presences in the street, such as Europe and the world of civilians, of compromises with a country and of a year of freedom. A state that, at this hour, continues to give the schematic to the dialog and to the negotiation. These last few days we have had no examples: the President of the Spanish Government has promoted a good number of political leaders to give response to initiatives of the Catalan institutions, such as the resolution we approved this morning. It is highly symptomatic that you did not ask to meet with any legitimate representative of the Catalan institutions: neither the President of the Generality, nor the President of the Parliament, nor any others. That is to say, to speak of Catalonia is called to everyone, less the representatives of Catalonia. An attitude that mocks the ridiculous and that is very far from institutional fairplay. The chance has caused this investment debate to take place just a year after the historic vote of 9 November 2014. It is well known that the response of the State to the fact of putting the ballot boxes, with some forty-thousand volunteers involved and more than 2,350,000 voters, was to promote disputes by criminal means against three members of the Government of Catalonia of that time: Joana Ortega, Irene Rigau and myself. We were going to be the first three processors, but I'm afraid they're not the only ones unless they radically change the attitudes of the Spanish State, which is as desired and desirable as unlikely to happen. The quarrels of November 9 are the last expression of prepotency, political shortsightedness and imperial pride hurt a state that neither listens nor speaks nor negotiates to that which does not please it. A state of pre-democratic tics and reflexes, which claim to disable or engage those who promote participation processes to know the opinion of the citizenry, even though it is with votes without direct legal binding. Who really wants to live in a state like this? I call on many other people and peoples of Spain: Who accepts and who wants to live in a state that criminally persecutes those who promote the ballot box to know people's opinion? Who can identify and feel protected by a state that treats democrats as if they were criminals? Who can be attracted by a state that uses laws and courts to silence democracy and not channel it? It means that in the later years, the State's refusal to give way to Catalan aspirations has been a constant unchanged one, and that's why we're where we are. The Spanish State has proved to be indifferent to the extent that the Catalan majority has been in favour of a concrete aspiration, fought and charged the 2006 Statute using, boldly and barroerously, the Constitutional Court; it has olympically ignored the much cross-cutting claim of a fiscal pact; it has rejected the possibility of a referral in a high way; it has again, using the Constitutional Court, the Law of Consultations that this Parliament has approved freely for 107 Members of Parliament on 135; it has abused the Constitutional Court in an attempt to halt the participation process of 9 November, and when it has seen more than two million people voting with a smile at the door and some with a bitter eye, with a bar, certainly, of normal order and of Mediterranean citizenship and with an intense view to international coverage. Certainly, a decision that led to the resignation of the Attorney General of the State from that moment, as months later brought about the unanimous re-establishment of the new members of the Board of Attorneys of Catalonia, people who are not exactly known for their sovereign or independence profile. And now, when, despite a thousand obstacles and barriers, we have managed as a country and as a nation – it is to say, as a society – to plant face to face with the powers of the State and some other powers, transforming an orderly election into a whole plebiscite – it certainly denies the beginning for some and finally accepted for all men, as we have seen this morning – all right now, and after all this, some people are failing to wear clothes because the Parliament of Catalonia has declared this morning that it considers the Constitutional Court to be out of order on the Statute of Catalonia in June 2010. He felt that, as they recalled, he provoked a multitude of counter-reactions on 10 July of that same year, of 2010, in the form of a great demonstration, with the inclusive assistance of President Montilla, then President of the Generality; of this more than five years ago. In just five years – only five years – Catalonia has experienced a sociological, political, project and mentality change of enormous depth, unprecedented for its size, its meaning of future and its fall. I return to the declaration approved today for this Parliament. It is the result of the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact. As a whole, it involves mutual divestitures for the benefit of a common agreement. Every part gives in to something to get to a whole. The content of the statement is a logical consequence of the recent democratic mandate in the ballot box. It is said that the process to form an independent state in Catalonia is initiated, thus translating the vote of 27 September, which gave an absolute majority to this Parliament; it is clear that the Catalan political process cannot be subject to alien decisions to the people of Catalonia, of which this Parliament is not the most and most natural representative; it is a process that constitutes a participatory citizen base, and it offers, from the very first moment, a will of dialogue and negotiation with the Spanish State, the European Union and the international community. Those who are surprised by a resolution like this one this morning are that they may not have read the results of past elections quite well. I would like to point out that I have almost a 50_percent vote in favour of the independence of Catalonia, assuming a reminder to the totality of the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and of the performance of its arbitrator, the Constitutional Court, that June 2010 revealed that it was an arbitrator on the part of not all, and therefore an arbitrator permanently refused by one of the parties: the Catalan. What you do not say, in change, is that Parliament's resolution adopted this morning provides for a unilateral declaration of independence. We are aware that not having exceeded the threshold of 50_percent of the emesos votes obliges us to conduct the process, having presented the social and political reality of the people of Catalonia today. If the State makes a serene and appointed reading, both of the election result and of the Parliament's statement, it would see that there is room for dialogue and negotiation. For the time being, however, it is still in its dynamic of dynamiting dial and cut-off bridges, making its maximum of "the worse, the better. And what is still worse, using, as always, any Catalan dynamic, small or large, punctual or permanent, such as electoral ammunition, such as the launch weapon, in a race sketched out to see who says it the biggest with the little hidden intent of winning votes. With all the precedents that I have briefly outlined, the September 27 elections have marked a turning point, one before and one after. Things have changed, and a lot. Catalonia is a moving country and no one can put up with the will of the majority of a people who are decisively advancing towards a better future, which means a better life. No complaint, no threat, no reason to stop the intimate yearning of thousands and thousands of people. Three years ago I presented myself before this very Parliament to be invested in the President and in my intervention I said that Catalonia had to start a new path, then a new way of doing, a new strategy, to make its own national transition. I added that this itinerary – this new itinerary – required a new mentality and that to build our future we had to depend more on ourselves and less on some others. He justified it with words that I also expressed in the 2010 investment speech and that, in my opinion, they remain fully in force. I'm talking about five years back, in this case. Catalonia, I said then, has to make its own national transition in order to win a well-being that is more in line with the productive capacity of our country, a social justice that rests more on the autonomous decisions of the Catalan institutions and on the shared values of the Catalan people and a cultural identity that can be projected in the context of globalisation in order to provide, from Catalonia, our degree of sorra in the best of the conjunction of humanity. So, well, this new path and this new mentality are already a reality. We are in front of a major movement, ordered and transverse. A movement configured for the vision and generosity of many who have understood that freedom is above the ideologies and acronyms of the parties, and that there are causes for which it is worth working together because a people realize their dreams and their best projects. A movement for everyone, peaceful, democratic, who seeks, with her hand, to build a new set of relationships that makes possible a future better for the citizen of Catalonia. We are legitimate, we have a majority democratic mandate to initiate the process of building a new state and giving a better life to all the people who make up Catalan society. The great challenge of this mandate is to transform Catalan autonomy into the Catalan State. The absolute majority of Parliament is to achieve this major objective. The plebiscite of 27 September did not last long to manage for four years the autonomy each time more limited than we have, but to build a state that has a constitution and that is recognized at international level. The repte is giant and the pocket huge. It takes everyone, everyone who believes in it and commits to it. There's no one left. I repeat, there's no one left. In these three years, Catalonia has mobilized an enormous volume of talent, energy and knowledge to be well prepared for the exercise of our sovereignty. The result of the elections fully justifies the unprecedented effort that has been made by many people, entities and institutions. Tanmateix, the accumulated work must complete it in the proper months. In fact, the legislature that started with the constitution of this Parliament, and the need to elect the President of the Generality to give it a course, should be a relatively short term legislature, ideally, no more than a split, calendars that would place us, as at most, in the first-summer of the year 2017. In this short period of time it has sunk the objects that degenerate further. U, culmination of the process constitute in its participatory, civic and associative phase. Two, defined design of the state and home structures at these points. Three, dealing with the Parliament of the Advance Bill of Procedure constitute. Four, dealing with the Parliament of the Law of Legal Transition; and five, full internationalization of the process of constitution of the future Catalan State. Add to this list of main objectives the willingness of a permanent and sincere dialogue with the Spanish State to ensure maximum legal certainty of the whole process and to avoid unnecessary harm to any of the parties involved. On many occasions I have undertaken, and today I repeat, that the soul that must guide the performance of the Catalan institutions must be that which does not go against Spain, but in favor of the solutions that result in benefits for everyone. The same reasoning applies to the institutions of the European Union. This is not to say that this will of dialog is only possible if it is shared by the parties involved. Until now it has not been possible to materialise it because one of the parties, the Spanish Government, has refused to negotiate the exercise of the right to decide on the people of Catalonia, despite the fact that a very large majority of Catalan society claims it in one way or another. The President of Parliament wondered when the Catalan term for "reasoning" was chosen, which was difficult to translate, she said. To get right, however, as everyone wants it, without bias, without preconditions and always from democratic mandates rejected in the ballot box, authentic make legitimacy, and from the standards and legal marks to the natural evolution of societies. I submit, therefore, the candidacy to be invested president of Catalonia, to help and contribute to the achievement of the objectives assigned, to do so with the described taranna and for a period that, reasonably, should not exceed the divided_months. After this period, the people of Catalonia will have to be called to the polls to decide on the definite format of the future Catalan constitution. All those who follow or continue to claim reference, we will have it – we will have it –; it will be the reference of approval of a future Catalan constitution, in the elaboration of which we are all called, and all means all, without exception. The second part of my intervention will focus on the intimate connection between the sovereignist process and the type of country to which we can aspire in a not too long future. We have always stated that self-government over the past three decades and the State in the future must be seen and understood as an instrument to give a quality response to social, demographic, economic, cultural, environmental and projection challenges to the world that Catalan society has set in this first part of the 21st century. Under this perspective, the need for a Catalan state does not respond to an objective for itself, years against it, must be at the service of achieving major objectives: welfare, progress, equity, fairness, equal opportunities, education, life expectancy, freedom. Here are the great threads to pursue, the values to which he approaches in fullness. Fates and values that, if we lower a degree in the definition, we could name: occupation, work, greeting to the length of life, formation to the length of life, academic success, taking advantage of the various capacities of all people, non-discrimination, security, access to culture in equal conditions, democratic and environmental sustainability, protection of the weakest or vulnerable, scientific progress, fair distribution of tax contributions, second opportunities, social lift and a wide range of objectives and values that correspond to the public policies of any advanced country, also of ours. The mandate that has begun with the constitution of the new Parliament and that should quickly take over from this investiture debate, even though it may be a relatively short mandate, must be able to combine the use of our limited autonomy and detailed with the configuration and preparation of the new state. , all the more so as to improve the living conditions and expectations of the Catalan people in their conjunction. No one would understand that the future government would give up using the instruments available to make from the first moment a better Catalonia to serve its citizens' set_milions_i_mig. In the same way that many would not understand that we limit ourselves to the use of the present straits without equipping ourselves with the tools of a state, as is the result of the elections of September. Even though it may seem like a paradox, the challenge is to manage autonomy and build the State, precisely to allow autonomy to stand in the way and be able to manage sovereignty. The exercise of autonomy is what the autonomous communities do; the exercise of sovereignty, even though it is shared, is what the European nations that have a similar state do. This legislature must serve to move from autonomy to the State; every day less autonomy, every day more State. Now, the State to do what? What are the reasons for this? I don't identify three of the highest priorities for the action of the own government. The first is to make Catalonia a country that is fairer, fairer, more prepared, more worshipable, safer and healthier. Second, make Catalonia a country with more work, more stable, more quality, more dynamic, more creative and more open. The third is to make Catalonia a country that is more transparent, more modern, with better public and democratic practices. Let us, therefore, briefly describe these three great causes or priorities. The first is a more just country. Catalonia has experienced a tough, difficult situation in the past few years, the result of the strongest economic crisis we have experienced in decades. Even though the poverty indexes have increased relatively little compared to the years ahead of the crisis, it is true that we have many families who have crossed the threshold of the poverty. We're fully conscious. During these years, actions have been developed to cope with this reality, but in a way we have the hands tied. The State has imposed on us – it has imposed on us, it has not negotiated, it has imposed on us – some unjust and insolidary deficit limits, it has not assumed or paid the debts with Catalonia, it has not granted a new model of autonomous financing, thus not fulfilling the legal framework, it has not fulfilled its commitments to finance the Law of Dependence, it has established exclusions in public health coverage and it has attacked the laws we have made to help vulnerable families, to avoid denunciations or the struggle against the poor energy. On the other hand, it is important to note that Catalonia generates enough resources to have a much more advanced welfare state than it currently has and what is more important, there is a very broad consensus in Catalonia that we should have social coverage instruments in line with the most advanced countries in Europe. In other words, in these years of austerity and austerity imposition, Catalonia could have maintained its welfare state and the salaries of its public employees without detail, if it had had a similar state. The two objectives for a more just country, which I will continue to implement, include so many immediate actions to respond to the most current and urgent needs as proposals for wider recourse, the names of'state structures', which must facilitate the tools for hard term policy benefits for everyone. These two objectives can be summarized in the following paragraphs: First: protection of the weakest or most vulnerable, social emergence plan. We need to give an immediate response to vulnerable families and people at risk of poverty, who have grown up as a result of the economic crisis. However, the risk rate of poverty or social exclusion, even being 3.2 points lower than Spanish, still has clearly higher values. A social emergency plan will therefore be implemented to reduce the poverty rate that covers all areas of activity, with special emphasis on the housing and protection of children. More than EUR 1 million per year, earmarked for the poor in the fight against the poor 2015-2016, must be able to deal with the most urgent situations, from food to energy cover, through a wide range of basic needs. According to the objective: a company that does not allow anyone to stand back: reform of the minimum income of insertion towards a guaranteed income of citizenship. It is necessary to transform the minimum income into a guaranteed income of citizenship with a system of incentives to prioritise social inclusion through work and to avoid the chronification of poor situations. They are committed to the precariousness and financial vulnerability of the Generality, it will be necessary to implement this reform with responsibility, without frustrating the just expectations of legally beneficial people. Third objective: protection of the right to housing. The programs will focus on resolving denunciation situations, both because of the default of the logger and the mortgage in cases of residential exclusion; increasing the public housing stock, and addressing a great deal of agreement with the large housing estates for the regularization and occupancy of these empty housings in order to logger and, to the extent possible, social logger. The State has not faced the problem and has only been able to bring to the courts the tax on the empty floors of the financial entities – a tax promoted for the Government of Catalonia with a clear social objective – or the modifications of the Catalonia Consumer Code for the better protection of consumers in the field of credit and mortgage loans, economic vulnerability and consumer relations. That is to say, judicial dynamics on the part of the State to combat political solutions on issues of social emergence. With the tools available or created we have reached more than 71,000 families in housing, a significant advance respects the 45,000 that were beneficiaries of social housing policy activities in 2012, now three years ago. Can you imagine what we could do with all the very first things of a summer? , with ample capacity for decision-making in housing matters? Fourth objective: greeting the long life: for a new model of health and integral social care. Catalonia, despite the financial constraints arising from the state-dependent situation, has one of the best public health systems in the world. This is how the same citizens who are users of the health service recognize it, in a Catalonia that has the best hope of European life, together with Islam and Switzerland; and the second best of the world, like Spain, after Japan. Ours is a good model, but it suffers from chronic underfunding. The increase in resources of public sanitation, the result of becoming a new state, will allow the system not to suffer from the extremes or the presuppositions that it has had to suffer in the later years. The best of the model, the result of having full skills, will be to boost integrated care – integrated – social and health care; enhance primary care, community care and home care; for the implementation of new models of participation and interaction with citizens; and for the use of innovative treatments and methodologies. In line with the decisions taken at the time for the Catalan Government, it will guarantee healthcare to all people living in Catalonia, regardless of their administrative situation. Five objectives: an inclusive and successful Catalan education school. The key to reducing inequalities is the existence of a quality education system that guarantees equal opportunities for society. The effort for quality education has allowed premature school drop-out to be reduced by more than two points compared to 2008, and increased to 60_percent the centres that use non-linguistic English at ESO, when this 60_percent was only 27_percent in 2012. Put in doubt this model and try to make it thunder, as the Government of the State has done with the LOMCE, manifests the absolute lack of the State for the Catalan education system and its uniforming will. Experience shows that only having a state can guarantee the survival of the current model of Catalan school consent. If even all that generates a broader and more transversal consensus in Catalonia is in doubt, like our educational model, it is that who has really disconnected from the Catalan reality is the Spanish Government. In the line of continuing to increase school success in Catalonia, as has happened in these past years, it will continue to deploy the Law of Education of Catalonia, the result of a broad consensus sunk in your day in our Parliament. Six objectives: a cohesive society, I support families and the great people. Beyond what has already been said and which also has a clear focus on supporting families – especially those who find themselves in a more vulnerable situation – it is essential to advance in the implementation of specific family protection policies, in the line of European countries with a more solvent trajectory in this area. We must guide policy decisions to promote the reconciliation of work and family life; concentrate comprehensive support actions on families experiencing situations of vulnerability; give an answer, from all over the world, to the challenge of ageing and the needs of the great people, and promote a fair tax on families, especially those living in poverty. For this reason it will be necessary to draw up a proposal for a Catalan law promoting personal autonomy; to draw up a Catalan law of international adoption in order to give unity, rationality and agility to the matter at the standard level; to draw up a decree to develop a new model of integral care to the envelope, with the aim of orienting the attention of the day towards a future predictor and recoverer of the autonomy of the person; to approve the draft law of support to the families, to include services and services that respond to the new realities and needs of the families; to apply the decree of the Council of the Great Gent of Catalonia and to materialize the constitution of the new council of the great people of Catalonia. Objective set: access to culture in equal conditions, a country of worship as a guarantee of the future. Catalonia is, without doubt, a culturally advanced country with a high level of creativity, with an important and differential heritage, and its main activity is Catalan language; but, at the same time, it is a country open to the world and permeable to the tendencies and ideas that come from the end. In the past few years, the world of culture has experienced important setbacks, especially by the Spanish State: increase of VAT – 21_per_cent–, reduction of aid, unsolved piracy. It is necessary to reverse this situation, and for this reason, once more, to have tools of state, such as a sponsorship law to encourage the participation and collaboration of civil society in the defence and promotion of culture and language, or an intellectual property law that promotes the economic protection of the author, facilitates the establishment of business models based on the digital environment and promotes access to culture. Thus, we propose: to elaborate the status of the artist, that rules the specific characteristics of the work environment and of social, contractual, tax, intellectual property and format of the cultural sector; to ensure that the català is recognized and accepted as a full language in all the international organizations in which the new state participates, especially all those that fall within the ambit of European institutions; to create the Catalan cultural community, under the formula of a consortium, with the aim of summarizing the efforts of the administrations that hold responsibilities in the field of culture; to adopt a new range of museums in Catalonia, a unique category of the museum and the national art field; to draft the complete plans for the artistic response to the cultural sectors. Objective: a host and socially developed country. Catalonia has been and is a pioneer country in the integration of people coming from the world. It must also be in the help of those who need to be co-opted in times of difficulty. Now we have the right and the opportunity to follow an example before a human repte of great dimensions. For this purpose it will be necessary: to continue working in the strategy of gathering refugees, thus generating a stable framework of relations with the United Nations High Commission for Refugees; to ensure the necessary schooling and additional assistance for refugees who may arrive in Catalonia; to provide coverage and healthcare responses to refugees who will be treated fairly and who will be provided with a programme of psychological care when they arrive in Catalonia; to design the new plan of citizenship and migration 2017-2020; to apply the International Protection Plan to Catalonia, to pioneer Catalonia and the rest of the State, coordinating and concrete measures resulting from the integration of the migration system into reality; and to strengthen the existing framework of migration. In addition, we need to continue to be a non-discrimination and equality referent, explaining the Law of Effective Equality of Women and Men as the new tool that will allow us to advance in the rights of women and against male violence and approving the Law for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, developing the 8th Strategic Pla of Women Policies of the Generalitat de Catalunya 2016-2019, implementing the Comprehensive Intervention Programme against Male Violence 2016-2019 that sets out the strategic lines and resources for attention, recovery and coordination for the approach to male violence. New objective: a model of social concertation that cohesion the country. The Catalan associative fabric has a long tradition and the country has stood out to have a community social vocation that, as I say, the Spanish State has not been able to appreciate. A concrete example: they, and I subratllo, incompliments of thirteen – thirteen – feelings that force the State to allocate 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF to Catalan entities and to the beneficiaries of its programs. Thirteen rulings of the Constitutional Court were incomplete for the Government or Spanish governments. With a look at the creation of a new state, it is time to strengthen the third social sector, volunteering and associationism, like priority social cohesion gears. In this sense, it will continue to implement the Support Plan for the Third Social Sector and the Law on Volunteering; a new specific law will be adopted to promote partnership with fiscal, legal, labour, communicative measures among others; a Community Action Plan will be developed in Catalonia to promote empowerment, the development of people with increased participation of entities, and to place Catalonia at the forefront of Europe in cohesion and social participation. A specific instruction will be adopted to promote the introduction of social aspects into public procurement, on the part of all departments and entities in the public sector of the Government of Catalonia, and will constitute the Council of Disability of Catalonia. Purpose: creation of the Catalan Social Security Agency. As the recently approved parliamentary agreement marks, one of the laws that will prioritise this chamber is that of the creation of the Catalan Social Security Agency. This is one of the essential elements in the construction of the appropriate state, and it is the one on which the social policies of the future Catalan state are articulated, of which we have previously spoken, and, at the same time, will assume the benefits that currently cover Spanish social security; among these, it is worth highlighting pensions and the benefits of the future. Catalonia, with more people working, higher wages and a lower rate of work than the rest of the Spanish State, has the capacity not only to guarantee the payment of current pensions, but also to improve social benefits in its conjunction, including pensions. Let us go to the second great cause or priority of what must be the action of the future government, if finally the investiture pulls forward, that it is a country with more and better work. While the data of people concerned are every couple of times better and the trend of occupation destruction has reversed, it should be noted that the crisis of the past few years, still well alive for many people, has involved impoverishment for many families and a loss of power acquired for many workers and workers. It is necessary to reverse this situation and promote an economic model in which progress is based on solid and sustainable productive structures, and not on speculative models similar to the past. We must also do our best to consolidate and expand middle classes, seeking a balanced social structure and a better distribution of wealth. All just a few days ago – you must remember – the latest data from the Active Population Survey, the EPA, have been known. The tax in Catalonia fell to 17 and a half percent; the lowest tax in the last five years. It's a clear better, but insufficient. Catalonia can and must aspire to hold the very moderate levels of the twilight of countries equivalent to ours, such as Austria, Finland or Denmark. They are countries that have a decision-making capacity in labor matters and resources that Catalonia does not have. That's why we aspire to hold them, and we need them, precisely for that. With the current instruments, which are the ones we have at this time, it will be necessary to deploy the new Ordering Law of the system of occupation and public service, approved for this chamber last June; a law that seeks to coordinate and optimize all resources intended to promote occupation. All folded, without oblivion of the specific collections with the youth guarantee programs, which are being activated strongly at these times, and the Great Actius program, to give support to the ups and downs of thirty years and older than forty-five years, respectively, or the impulse of a new model of labour integration of people with disabilities. In order to live in a country with more work and more quality, we also have a set of objects, which I will sum up very synthetically also, a little more, in deu. First: a professional training adapted to the job market. Between 2007 and 2015, in only eight years, enrolment in initial vocational training increased by 80_per_cent, and dual vocational training already up to more than 5,000 students, with the involvement of more than 1,000 entrepreneurs and 150 educational centres. Professional training has proven to be an effective tool in fighting against the dark. The rate of graduates of vocational training is still lower than the rate of attendance in Catalonia and much lower than the rate of attendance of young people between the ages of seven and twenty-four. On the way to prestige vocational training, in the next few months it will be necessary to deploy the Law of Vocational Training and Qualification that this Parliament approved last June, with the aim of adapting it to the business reality of the country. Second objective: to support small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed entrepreneurs. With a corporate structure formed in its large majority by small and medium-sized enterprises, and with an entrepreneurial activity rate over the European medium– which is sometimes silence–, Catalonia has to continue to bet on peppers and autonomes. One of the great challenges is to complete the transformation process of the Catalan Institute of Finance into a public bank of investments, in the framework of the European Banking Union, so as to improve the financing of the production sector centered on the peppers. It may be recalled that since 2011, and in line with the reorientation of its activity, loans and endorsements have been granted to more than eleven_ thousand enterprises, mostly peppers and autonomes, with special emphasis on projects that promote innovation, internationalization and job creation. The other great challenge in this land is to apply all the best of the Law of Administrative Simplification, approved before the summer for our Parliament, with the aim of speeding up economic activity and reducing its bureaucratic burden. Third objective: re-impulsion of industrial policy and support for export activity. Catalonia has historically assumed industrial leadership in the Spanish State, and in good part in southern Europe, and also in exports. In fact, Catalonia's commercial opening is similar – here it is – to that of countries such as Denmark, Austria or Finland. Catalonia occupies the seventh position of the European Union, on twenty-eight countries, in exports per capita. Moreover, it exports a little more than 25_per_cent, a quarter of everything that exports the Spanish State, and concentrates one_of three exporting companies to the State, without forgetting that it is one of the regions preferred to Europe for the foreign investment project, which certainly continues to arrive. We have product texture and talent, but we have competitive infrastructure, mechanisms to attract more productive foreign investment, and overcome the state's energy gap, which makes companies pay one of the highest prices of energy in Europe. Thus, the present economic recovery with measures such as the deployment of the industrial strategy for Catalonia should be confirmed; the establishment of the first communities named RIS3CAT, i.e., clusters of enterprises and technology centres that materialise major industrial innovation projects; the creation of the office supporting industrial and technological patents; the creation of the support body financing exports and the strengthening of the trade and investment office network in Catalonia – the external office network, is understood; the establishment of the support body financing exports and the strengthening of the trade and investment office network in Catalonia will already take place in the year 2016 – in order to enhance the export, foreign investment and internationalization of the Catalan companies; the implementation of the new implementation of the new implementation of the industrial certification system. Fourth objective: a trade, tourism and quality consumption. The dynamism of the Catalan economic activity is vital for creating jobs, and the indicators show that Catalonia is well-trained in this area: a powerful and propitious business model – powerful and propitious – is to say, differentiated; a dynamic of sustained consumption, and a tourist attraction capacity that is at first level, all over southern Europe. The Catalan business model is an act to protect, before the repeated attempts of the Spanish State to bring him to court, a little more. In order to keep pace with tourism, the 2016-2018 tourism marketing plan will be approved, with the aim of improving the quality of the sector, encouraging the attraction of visitors of high added value and minimizing the impact these can have on our citizens. Five goals: a search and innovation ecosystem. Catalonia has an indisputable innovative capacity and is a European power with excellent results. A 52_percent of the European search space's aid to the Spanish State has remained in Catalonia, more than half, representing, as we represent, 16_percent of the population and 19_percent of the economy. Three Catalan universities are among the hundred best in the world of those who teach themselves to be younger, who have less than fifty years of existence. I, of scientists with world positions of first level, have many. We have opened scientific relations with innovative countries – Israel, California, Massachusetts – but only with all the tools of a state can we continue to bet on excellence and take a step forward, create a true search and innovation system that ensures knowledge transfer to business environments. It will focus on developing a law on the search system, with a comprehensive and country-wide view, and a law of scientific mecenatge; implementing the research and innovation strategy for the intellectual specialisation of Catalonia, through collaborative R+D+I projects with the objectives of Europe 2020; initiating the activities of the Diagonal-Besòs campus, of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia; creating an industrial teaching programme that enables the temporary mobility of teaching to the industry, such as the mechanism to promote technology transfer and knowledge; defining a strategic proposal for a comprehensive scholarship and aid system for the Catalan university system. If objective: a country with competitive infrastructure. To talk about infrastructure is to talk about incomplete misproposals and promises: from the Roller Plate, which so many thousands and thousands of millions of euros had to bring to Catalonia and carried a few hundred in a pile of years, from the Roller Plate to the third additional provision of the Statue, always incomplete for seven years, except for one year; the lack of investments in carts, like the national 340 in Vallirana or the Camp de Tarragona. Compared Greuges: you know that the general assumptions of the State target this year in Catalonia 9 and a half percent of the total state investment, much under what it would touch us by population – and even by population–, and I don't mean by economics. And this is a chronic defect, it's not just this year, it's almost always the same. Some short-term priorities in the field of infrastructure would be to make an inventory of infrastructures and services that can be taken over by the Government of Catalonia; to define an individualized management model of airports; to work to improve the rolling stock and to complete the intercity public transport network with Express services. As of 2016, put in operation line 9 of the metro, between the T-1 of the airport and Collblanc, this very month of February, and the extension of the Railways of the Generalitat of Catalonia to Sabadell during 2016, exactly as has been done to Terrassa during this year 2015; deploy the T-Mobility and the implementation of the Law of financing of public transport, approved unanimously last July in this Parliament, that previews a change in the system of crowns, new sources of financing and control mechanisms to avoid the indebtedness of the system; develop the National Pact for the Energy Transition, to advance a model with major shares of renewable energies, at the time that all the mechanisms are developed in order to take over the entities of the enterprise that the Administration, in order to move forward to a model of the major administrations of renewable energies, at the time that all the mechanisms are implemented in order to take over the institution of the energy, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration, the Administration and the Administration of the Administration of the Administration of the Administration of the Objective set: for a camp and a catal sea with your own Europe and based on quality and proximity. The Catalan agri-food sector is a model of reference to Europe for its quality and, in fact, is one of the first agri-food clusters in all of southern Europe. This good position is the result of particularities which must be defended in order to ensure their competitiveness. To speak with you in particular to European institutions in the agricultural field is, to be sure, an element that is at stake in the field and in the Catalan sea. Moreover, they will create or implement the new interdepartmental integral plan for rural development; a Catalan agricultural guarantee fund and a network of agricultural insurances at the level of Catalonia; the new plan for the promotion of agricultural and economic production 2015-2020; a system of enterprise agricultural training that helps to improve the capacity of farmers, catalan fishers and farmers to manage their businesses, and a plan for the promotion of food and products from the land and the sea. Objective: a country that is environmentally and territorially sustainable. The air we breathe, the water we drink, the sun we take, are common good that we can take care of and pass on to future generations. Catalonia has historically been characterized as an advanced country in its environmental policies. It has applied them by conviction, not by obligation; an exhibition more than when we have competitions in making a good use of it. Today's uplifting people, such as North American President Barack Obama or Pope Francesc, are making these ideals objective to achieve, aware of the impact that inaction would have on current and future generations. We will not stand in the way of research and investment in strategic sectors such as renewable energies, the introduction of taxation and environmental economics criteria and the promotion of eco-innovation. In the short term, it will be necessary to put the focus on the momentum of the climate change law; the creation of the agency of the environment and of the territory, which allows to consolidate a mark of rigour and prestige in the territorial and environmental themes, and a national pact on water that exceeds the anachronistic plantations of the Hydrological Plan of the State. I would not want to finish this block without referring to two state structures for its size, and also for its strategic importance in a country like which we want to make: the central bank and the public record. Therefore, the new object of this block is the central bank. Catalonia needs to count with all the necessary structures in order to be a normal country and, among them, over the central bank of Catalonia, an independent institution that will age for the financial stability and the proper functioning of the system, in balance with the general and particular interest of developers and entrepreneurs, at the time that will oversee the solvency and the compliance of the regulations of the credit institutions. It is the opportunity to create professional institutions, independent and transparent, that give credibility to the system to finance and protect estivators, entrepreneurs and citizens, without interference. And, finally, the objective purpose of this block: the own heritage. In the recent parliamentary agreement approved for this chamber, a new legal framework around the future Catalan heritage has been defined as priorities. This has historically been a battle horse for the Catalans. Economic hardships continue with the model of financing of the Catalan Autonomous Administration, the Generality, and with the model of fiscal imbalance between Catalonia and the rest of the State. All those attempts that have been made to rebalance the situation have been unsuccessful, all of them. Two examples: one, looking long into the story; the other, much more recently. The first, the Statue of Núria, of 1931, established an autonomous history for Catalonia differentiated from the history of the Republic, allowing it to be detailed one year later for the Spanish Courts. The 2006 Statute, much more recently, also provided for a consortium – the current one, by the way, which was approved in reference – between the State Tax Administration Agency and the Tax Administration Agency of Catalonia, which would allow for a situation of intense and equal collaboration; it has never been realized. In this new process we will advance in all that is at our hands to make the public record a reality, a story that also exceeds the traditional model of control, persecution, for a new model in consonance with the 21st century, based on cooperation and trust between taxpayers and Administration. At this time we are working on the best specialists, and among the actions that are foreseen are the following: strengthening of the organizational structure of the own estate and continuing the deployment of the network of recapitulation and tax management; equipping the Catalonian Tax Agency with the organizational structure, the personal resources and materials necessary for the consolidation of the own estate, as it progresses in the tax and tax management system that supports any type of tax on which the Generality has competence at every moment; creating mechanisms to put on the way the different organizations that will allow full autonomy in fiscal matters: the fiscal council of Catalonia, the institute of tax statistics of Catalonia, the international tax office, the tax office of Catalonia. Come on, to focus on the third and later part of my intervention, to which would be the third great cause that at the beginning announced them, the third great cause or priority to serve from which to work in this next legislature: a country of good practices. The crisis of confidence in institutions and politics is one of the elements that requires more decisive action, with decisive measures, since there is no quality democracy without confidence. Everyone needs to know that institutions are clear and secure, clean and transparent. The current perception is not that, and hence the need and self-requirement to make strong and credible efforts to regain full confidence. Now that it's so much about new politics, the creation of a new state is the best way to make new politics, it's the challenge of making a point and apart in an orderly way to bring institutions up to date and make them more fit for the citizenry, a citizenry that knows responsibility in rights, but also in dues. In this block of objects I will highlight four. The first, the development of legal frameworks relating to the process, was discussed this morning. The first objective, this, is capital: to give compliment to the resolution that most of Parliament approved this same morning. I am not going to extend, because I will refer to the last part of the intervention, but I will certainly comment on some point. In any case, we give the sort of exit to the constituent process, which must culminate in the approval of the Catalan constitution. We have to do it with rigour and solvency. It must count on the involvement of organised civil society; an open, inclusive and active process, which must be the foundation and inspiration of the final text of the constitution. It is obvious, and very elementary, that to give substance to all the political process that we have the mandate to develop in us not a functioning government, but a definitively constituted government, and hence the extraordinary importance of this investiture session. The proper government will have to initiate and, thus, promote the negotiating agenda with the Spanish State, as well as the European and international agenda, for the recognition of the mandate in favour of the constitution of the new state that is not part of the future Catalan constitution of the referendum for citizenship. And that is obvious that it cannot be done with a functioning government, it must be done with a permanently constituted government. According to objective: more momentum to transparency and new measures of democratic regeneration. The new state must be born of trust between Administration and administered, in a two-way relationship. In this sense, it will be necessary to advance in aspects such as: elaboration of the white paper on participation and democracy in a joint manner between Government, entities and citizens; elaboration – hopefully this time – of a new electoral law of Catalonia, which advances in the proximity between voters and elected, representatives and represented, rules the early vote, universal, for people with problems of vision or mobility and which introduces electronic voting mechanisms. In the past legislature, we were going to be very close to the agreement; therefore, to finish the job and to have electoral law in the legislature that we are now beginning. Promotion and development of transparency and accountability legislation in public activity, and approval of the law on transparency, access to public information and good governance; drafting of a draft law on public sector contracts in Catalonia, with the aim of achieving fuller access to public contracts, particularly for the peppers and social entities, and increasing its efficiency and transparency. This law will also apply to local authorities in Catalonia. Open government system, grouping into a single strategy policies of citizen participation, transparency and open data, in a cross-section of the Administration; plans of electronic democracy to boost participation on the basis of transparency and access to information and to make Catalonia a country with a well-active and involved citizenship; complete compliment of the transparency criteria of the Transparency International Agency, maintaining the standards laid down in the past years, which have placed the Government of Catalonia among the most transparent institutions of the Spanish state, after a great effort. Third objective: a modern, efficient, fair and collaborative public administration. One of the great opportunities we have with the creation of a new state is not to repeat the mistakes of the past and to promote a new agile administration, which responds to citizen requests and collaborates with loyalty with different levels of administration. As in the new state, it will be necessary to create the administrative structures necessary to carry out the skills that we do not yet have and that require belonging to the European Union. This will be an opportunity to improve e-government, for example, and all those processes that are now being detected obsolete and unsuitable for a new 21st century administration. In this sense, we will evolve into a new model of public sector, without so many organizational limitations, driving the governance activities of the Administration of the Generality and its public sector, to take the best decisions and re-accounts, institutionalizing excellence practices and administrative audits. Reconnaissance to the local world will take place by means of a new law of local governments of Catalonia to establish a model suitable for the local administration of Catalonia, a new law of local finance of Catalonia and a new law of territorial planning of Catalonia, which simplify the levels of administration and rationalize the skills and functioning of the different administrations. And the fourth objective, of this next block: a country with more justice and security. The configuration of the new state will allow us to have a new administration of justice, effective and accessible, which still requires with the compliment of the law, accessible to everyone and with reasonable solutions terms – not like the ones of the day – with a system of justice free of quality for people without enough resources. In the transition to this point, the development of the Judicial Equipment Board 2014-2020 and the Prison Equipment Board 2014-2020; the planning and actions for the implementation of the judicial office to six judicial parties; the planning and actions for the implementation of the judicial office beyond these six judicial parties, with a view to a legislature that may last longer than the current one; the planning and implementation of the new organizational model of the tax office; the development of strategic lines of mediation to boost their use, increase judicial referrals, professionalize mediators through regular training and the implementation of the Parentality Coordination Programme. For what it does to security and civil protection, it is clear that it will be necessary to develop all of a country's own internal and international security structures. We have identified them: intelligence services, cybercrime, terrorism, organized and transnational crime... And we'll start working on the definition of the implementation strategy, so that it fits the competitive framework of a similar state. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to make a new country, a better country than we have, in all its aspects and all its dimensions. Very often, only very often, the countries find themselves in decisive cruills in the course of their history. When this happens, it's not just about walking – that this, little or much, does it all – it's about sorting between possible paths, knowing that not everyone is taking it to the same place: some take it to the place of origin and they're the most comfortable because they're the best known, others take it to the bottom of the bag, and, therefore, they're wasted time and energy, there's no other, in other words, they're full of bards, punches and thorns, but if you make use of the spots to get to the pen and contemplate the open valley and a full horizon of opportunities. Catalonia finds itself in a point of its long, very long, long history, in a crucible of paths in which the collective decision will set the course for many years and for many generations. That's why it's so far-reaching that we're not wrong now in the tria of the way: we'll fail many who've preceded us; but above all, we'll deceiv and carve the wings to many who have to happen to us. Arriving at the cruelty we have to sort between subordination and freedom. Subordination is convenient, but it has a cost; freedom is uncomfortable, because it has a price. We have to sort between taking the cost of subordination or paying the price of freedom. Last year, 2014, we celebrated the three-hundredth anniversary of the loss of liberty, the rights and institutions of Catalonia: the creation of compulsory subordination; but we also commemorated the centenary of the Commonwealth, the face of a first air of freedom. Some of you may say that there are intermediate paths between subordination and freedom. It is true, as certain as they are that they are paths that do not depend on us, but on the will of the State to open them up and, once opened, not to turn them into dead-end wagons or upholstered walls that do not allow further progress. In the long history of Catalanism, people, generations and different parties have repeatedly apostated and, at the very least, coughing up, on the intermediate paths, the names of 'third lives'. From the end of the 19th century to the tax pact of four years ago, from now on, a long chain of third-year intentions has been deployed: the Commonwealth, the State aborted with the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, the State of Núria de la República, the restoration of the Generalitat in 1977 before the Spanish Constitution was approved – before the Spanish Constitution was approved – the State of Sau in 1979, and it does not need to go so far, the State of 2006, that it is very close. More than a hundred years of intermediate and third-way paths with their long dictatorial periods, these yes, the fruit of subordinations against the established order and the laws in force of each moment, this yes. More than a hundred years rejecting subordination, but without prioritizing all freedom, always in the face of a good fit – this is what Catalonia and Catalanism have done – or, at least, in the face of a reasonable fit of Catalonia in the Spanish State. After so many attempts at cash more than a hundred years, what do we say? They ask them to ask these questions. Is it recognizable with the birth? Does the State promote and protect our own language, the català? Can we apply the system of linguistic immersion in our educational environment, guarantee of social cohesion and equality of opportunity, without continuous interference of the institutions of the State, whether executive, legislative or judicial? Has the State at any time been concerned with reducing the chronic fiscal deficit in Catalonia, which is a permanent source of economic, social and territorial inequalities? Has the State undertaken to invest in basic infrastructure in line with the demographic and economic potential of Catalonia at any time? Can we decide from this Parliament a commercial schedule legislation to ensure a cohesive, balanced and modern urban trade? Can we decide which bonus will be awarded to disabled people working in a special centre? Can you regulate the levels of energy sub-administration to prevent vulnerable people from passing cold into winter? Can we intervene in energy regulation to ensure that the cost of energy does not damage our product fabric? Can we authorise the medicines needed to ensure better health for our fellow citizens? Can we manage our ports and airports? And our high-capacity lives? What about the rolling stock system? Can we manage and collect taxes paid by businesses and citizens of Catalonia? And pensions? What about the day-to-day benefits? Can they modify the cultural VAT? Can you make mecenatge laws? I from intellectual property? Can we manage the share that corresponds to the water of the Hebrew hydrographic conca, and, therefore, the regadius of a good part of the Catalan agricultural system? The answer to all these questions knows very well: it's no. They can't do it. After, of course, more than a hundred years of intent, on the part of all, intermediate and third life. We can't do anything about it or many other things. It is stated that I do not speak either of defence, of currency, of central banks, of embassies, or of international treaties on trade or security, nor of anything else; I am merely expressing elementary decisions that any country that is considered a country, that wants to self-governance, has perfectly in its abyss. Finally, within a system of shared sobrieties like that of today's Europe. [[Would it have been all folded apart from how I describe it? In this case, the answer is: yes, it could have been different, of opportunity, they did not fail. Without going any further, if you've taken over the draft Statute that passed this Parliament on 30 September 2005 with a very large majority, now we won't be where we are. Finally, if we had respected the State, which was finally referred to the people of Catalonia in 2006 and applied with joy, we would not be where we are. Even so, if none of these brands have been respected, it means that the problem of the fund is not the unwillingness of Catalonia to fit – it is not the unwillingness of Catalonia to fit – the problem of the fund is the manifest inability of the Spanish State to accept it if a Catalonia with its own personality, its own identity and its own project. In essence, it is the intolerance of the Spanish State, above all its administrative, economic, political, journalistic, intellectual, and often religious elites, to accept itself as a plurinational State; it is to say, to accept itself as the Spanish State. Just as there are people who have intolerance to some food, the Spanish State has intolerance to the Catalan national reality. (Whispering) An intolerance that he does not see today, but that is still manifesting forty years after Franco's death, despite the joy that Catalonia has shown in all the great folds that Spain has had to face in the last decades. I repeat: despite the joy that Catalonia has shown in all the great challenges that Spain has had to face in the past decades, from the democratic transition to the fight against terrorism, from European integration to the euro to the enormous currents of economic solidarity in order to help the less productive territories of the State.]] [[The lack of recognition and respect for the Catalan nation... – and I speak of the birth not primarily in historical terms, but of the community that defends a project that is propitious from a similar value – this lack of recognition and respect for the Catalan nation that is this way is at the mercy of the disaffection that a very significant part of the Catalan society feels for the Spanish State, not for Spain – for the Spanish State. A challenge that will go further, before the inability of the Spanish State to articulate a minimally attractive proposal for the majority of Catalan society.]] [[These days we have had a new task: a parliamentary majority, which derives from democratic elections, such as this, with the highest participation of the citizenry, at the moment when it begins to act to make possible the democratic mandate obtained, is rebutted with such fine and tolerant expressions as sedition, betrayal, riot, institutional coup d'état, insurrection and other verbal and well-intentioned words of those who always say they think very much of us.]] The State doesn't want to understand, it wants to destroy. He feels attacked, when what he should feel is questioned and not attacked. On 27 September, two million Catalans told the State, through the ballot box, "We cannot and do not want to go on this way, but we will not give up a project to live better. I note this bet of project and, therefore, of future. In view of the many situations of all kinds experienced in these past years, the Catalan society could have settled in the resignation, the entrepreneurship or the disaffection of endin doors. Along with all this, a very remarkable bulk of Catalan citizenship has brought together their feelings and their longings and channeled them into the form of a project. The mainstream of Catalan society is the will to exercise our right to decide and our sovereignty. And I remember a little more than Catalonia can't talk about the mainstream, the vast current, without adding many people of different origins, words and beliefs. I ended up with a reflection of endin doors, addressed to the Parliament, from which the investiture depends. The majority of 72 deputies in favour of creating an independent state for Catalonia have the right and the right to go implementing the mandate rejected by the citizenry, without losing sight of the 52 deputies and deputies of the minority and the 11 who defend the right to decide. For their band, the minority has the right and the right to assert their position, but not denying an election result that has given the absolute majority of parliament independence. And I remember them, especially for a few things that were said this morning, that a thousand times I answered a thousand and a few questions before the elections, in the sense that if we had an absolute majority in this Parliament, we would go through the process to end up being a state in Catalonia. One and a thousand times he asked, one and a thousand times we were going to answer exactly that. And if you want to count votes, you love life; first, count them well, because there's a lot more 'yes' than 'we, and, second, if it's about whether it's over 50_per_cent in votes– because it's clear that we're over 50_per_cent– then there's only one way to know it: a pure reference, like Quebec and Scotland, legally binding and accepting the result. I want to say how a reference is made so when the People's Party, the Socialist Party and Citizens do not want to unload the phone, or open the electronic mail, or sister around a table to talk about it? I want to say how a reference is made, if to put the ballots on November 9th of last year, in a consultation without legal consequences, some of us are prosecuted by the criminal court, with possible processes of incapacity and, finally, of imprisonment? Let us stop cheating on the lonely and making a toast to the sun: the Spanish State is politically incapable of accepting a spectre of the democratic depth and height as it is raising a very significant part of Catalan society. Most say that there is no unnecessary blockage or waste of time to start the process that must take us to the Catalan state. Once Parliament is formed, this happens because there is an investment and, therefore, a new government; without an investment there is no definite government and, consequently, the process remains silent, at least for a while. It would not be understood in any way that we have a fully functioning parliament, such as the one we have, living with a government that derives from the previous legislature and that, precisely for this reason, is in operation. Such a powerful run of the legislature requires a government at the height of the challenges we have set ourselves and for which we have a good democratic mandate. Say an old proverb that you can't direct the wind, but the sails of your ship. If the movement of the rudder is the one that allows to follow the rudder, the marked rudder, the surface and the orientation of the sails it is the one that makes the ship navigate taking advantage of the wind. Also, if there is not enough harmony between the rudder and the sails, the boat may fall and cannot be receded. From us it is said that there is navigation, from the majority, and arrive at good port. We know that navigation will not be placid, more quickly the contrary; we have already seen it this morning. We also know, however, that without going out of port we are stuck, immobile and stuck, a high price after having prepared ourselves for the crossing and after having received a clear mandate on the course to follow. From us, and only from us, it is said that from this week the sails are well oriented to enjoy the wind that on September 27th, on September 27th, our country offered to the ballot boxes to its navigators. Many thanks, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-09-0301.40.0	Once the candidate's intervention is over, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. They suspect the session.
