ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.1.0	The session begins. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of the Paris and Beirut attacks of November 2015 and solidarity with the French people and the other peoples suffering from terrorism]] [[401-00001/11]] Before we begin the order of the day, I am sure that we will read the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to condemn the attempts of Paris and Beirut of November 2015 and to show solidarity with the French people and other peoples suffering from terrorism. So, in the name of the chamber, I would like to greet the General Council of France and other members of the consular body who are accompanying us today. Let's start reading the statement. « Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of the Paris and Beirut storms of November 2015 and solidarity with the French people and the other peoples who suffer from terrorism. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its strongest condemnation of the attacks perpetrated in Paris on 13 November 2015, the hardest in French territories, as a result of which 129 people have died and 350 people have been injured. These times have been claimed for the Islamic State terrorist group. The Parliament of Catalonia also recalls and condemns the double attempt that took place in Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, on November 12, 2015, perpetrated equally for the terrorist group Islamic State, which caused forty deaths and almost two hundred injuries. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its rejection of any strategy that seeks to break society or confront people for reasons of ethnicity, origin, thought or religion. For this, condemn the attacks on Paris and Beirut. The Catalonian Parliament considers democratic values, freedom of thought and conscience and, in particular, the right to life and the value of coexistence to be indispensable in the face of differences. For this reason, he sympathizes with the French people and with all the countries that suffer from terrorism and the consequences of wars and armed conflicts, causing hundreds of thousands of displaced people to come to the countries close to peace and freedom. At the same time, Parliament expresses the need to guarantee and respect religious freedom and rejects any type of criminalization of persons of Muslim religion for reasons of creeds and attacks on symbols, and also in relation to other religions or choices of conscience. The Parliament of Catalonia is committed to working positively on the challenge of replacing the culture of violence with the culture of the pau, by preventing conflicts and mediating the main practice to prevent or resolve conflicts. And call, once again, to defend and guarantee social justice and respect for human rights as the best way to make the world safer. In this sense, he cries out that the exercise of this violence does not involve the practice of insolidarity in the gathering of refugees from areas in conflict. Finally, the Catalonian Parliament states that the fight against terrorism cannot mean a limitation on democratic rights, freedom and dignity of people. Palau del Parlament, November 19, 2015. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] In honor of the victims, we'll watch a minute of silence. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.2.0	The first point of the order of the day... [[Decree Law 3/2015, of 6 October, amending the Law 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, on the creation of the Register of Stable Couples]] [[203-00022/10]] ... is the debate and vote on the validation of the Decree Illi 3/2015, of 6 October, amending the Law 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relative to the creation of the Register of stable pairs. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules, the Honourable Mr. Germà Gordó, Councillor of Justícia, hereby submits this Decree to the Court.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.3.0	Mr President... Mr President, members of the Government, Members of Parliament, before starting my intervention, will allow me to greet the members of the Commission for Codification of Catalonia present in this chamber, as will Mr Salvador Milà, a member of the Commission for Justice and Human Rights in the later legislature, representatives of municipalist entities and the Director General of Justice and Legal Entities. I proceed, on behalf of the Government, to request to the chamber the validation of Decree 3/2015, amending the Law 25/2010, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the creation of the Registry of Parellas de Fet. The decree establishes a mandate that this same Parliament adopted by means of Resolution 786/X of 25 September 2014, for which it urged the Government to establish a single register of pairs of facts in which all pairs of persons residing in Catalonia who wished to do so can be inscribed and who credit the compliment of the conditions required for articles 234-1 to 234-14, of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the person and family and also to the dissolution of pairs, whichever is the municipality on visquina. The resolution also called on the Catalan Government to ensure that the Department of Justice, at the time of establishing and regulating the register, is in agreement with local associations and, if necessary, with the Administration of Justice, so that delegations or access windows can be placed to the registration and constitution or dissolution of the actual pairs in most of the municipalities of Catalonia, with the maximum approval and simplification of applicable criteria and of the requirements that can be established. This resolution was adopted unanimously in the case of the Commission of Justice and Human Rights, and in this sense I would like to thank the task that all the members of the Commission of Justice developed in the last parliamentary term, particularly its president and its maximum pusher, the maximum pusher of this resolution and, therefore, also of this decree, somehow, the deputy Salvador Milà, here today present. The text aims to provide the Administration of Justice with the necessary tools for such a long-term mandated task and thus give a step further to extend the regime of equality of civil rights that pleases the couples established in Catalonia in the field of public rights, making it easier, among others, and for example, the right to perceive widowhood. Catalan legislation and the constitutional case law of the past few years have also given significant passes in the equipping of rights in this camp. In concrete terms, the Constitutional Court's judgment of March 11, 2014_considered it to be a useful and sufficient means of proving the existence of a couple of facts for the purposes of power over the elements provided by widowhood to be inscribed in a specific register created for the autonomous community or municipality of residence of the couple. If we are looking at the legislative precedents that have brought us here, we must begin by making the point of Law 10/98, of stable pairs unions, which meant a very important tape for achieving the legal, economic and social equality of the various forms of pairs; it was a pioneer not only in the Spanish State but also at European level. With the approval of Law 10/98, some remarkable improvements were achieved in the protection of groups of people who were unprotected and who had problems with recognition by many institutions. This law served because it achieved the legal and social recognition that they needed and that they came asking for a lot of time. The next step was the approval of the Law 25/2010, which approves the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia. This meant the recognition and equalization of stable fetal pairs to matrimonial pairs, for which the family is referred, also in the right successors. When it was working on the drafting of Law 10/98 it was discussed the need to incorporate in the register that you serve to advertise the pairs that you want. After a deep study he arrived at that time at the conclusion that the non-creation of a registry was further added so that the stable pairs were registered. Unfortunately, the case law of the Constitutional Court has changed all our opinions. It must be borne in mind, from the outset, that this legislative initiative does not alter in absolute terms the current content of the substantive regulation of stable pairs as set out in the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia. The proposal of the decree starts from the current forms of constitution of a pair, in accordance with Article 234-1, without modifying them, and provides for their access to the register that is now created by means of the constitution or notoriety writing. With this regulation, which is continuant of the gathering in that Law 10/98 of stable pairs unions, Catalonia makes once more use of the legislative competence that Article 149.1.8 of the Constitution recognizes the autonomous communities with civil rights suitable for such that the conservant, the modifier and the development; competence that, with excluded character, also regulates Article 129 of the Catalan State. According to the legal doctrine, stable couple unions can respond to two types of models: of one band, the factual or non-formalized one, consisting of the constitution for coexistence during a certain period of time or for the fact of having common descent, and, of the other, the formalized one, which is based on the constitution of the union in public document or by registration in a register. According to these patterns, the Catalan model is mixed, as it admits both possibilities. However, the formalised constitution does not currently require any registration in the register, nor does the regulation of the Civil Code establish a registry system for stable pairs, since the Catalan legislator opted for a system of unregistered pairs. In Law 6/2015, of harmonization of the Civil Code of Catalonia, which amended Article 234-6, relating to the agreements reached after the cessation of the coexistence of the stable pair, it is understood that the register must also have access to the scripts of modification and extinction of the stable pairs. We must bear in mind that the primary purpose of this regulation is the need to protect without discrimination the effects of family relations both within the private right and within the public right. It was considered essential to introduce, as a matter of urgency, a regulation adapted to its requirements, while creating a register in the territorial area of Catalonia, therefore, of stable pairs. The temporary question and the impact of the citizens' initiative of public character clearly pose the need to establish a register that allows the person subject to the civil right of Catalonia to exercise his rights in equal conditions to the rest of the citizens. It must be borne in mind that the holders of these rights – for example, the widowhood pension – are in a situation of institutional disadvantage in respect of other citizens who are subject to the rest of the civil regime of the State, and with a lower regime of approval and legal security that must be immediately restored and recovered, bearing in mind that there are few municipal registers currently in operation. By virtue of which the Resolution 786/X of the Parliament of Catalonia, previously stated, the Department of Justice has met with the municipalist entities and reached agreement for its application. Thus, under the coordination of the same department, universality and free access to the register of stable pairs is ensured. In this sense, in order to effectively implement the deployment of the register, we count on the collaboration of the Collège de Notaris de Catalunya and of the whole notary body, and to whom I would like to thank your efforts in this matter. In conclusion, what has been expected with this new regulation is the protection, without discrimination, of the effects of all family relationships that are derived from a stable pair, both in the sphere of private law and in the sphere of public law. It has been considered that it is essential to introduce a regulation that adapts to current requirements, and for this reason it has decided to create a register of stable pairs. For all this, today, we ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.4.0	In order to fix his position, the word has the illustrious Lord Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.5.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, President, guests, for the validation of this decree law, my group wants to make a double analysis: one, the political-social one, and the other, the strictly legal one. As the councillor, Mr Gordó, has explained, we are regulating here the registration of couples in fact that, without altering the legal configuration of the couple in fact, we have established in the Catalan Civil Code and that before it was in a law of 98, being pioneers here in Catalonia in the regulation of these forms of union between people. A fundamental question is that this royal decree, in the end, comes to complete the mandate that this Parliament has made to regulate precisely this. Therefore, as a parliamentary group, the Ciutadans Group agrees that this issue should be regulated. In its day, we participate in that mandate to the Government. As the Councillor has said, there is no change in the mixed regime that we have for couples in fact in Catalonia, which is a factual one, that of the coexistence of more than two years of people, that of having a common child or the raising to public writing of this union. It will be the public scriptures that would access this new creation record. Here in Catalonia we have chosen that this inscription be merely...– or the royal decree, in fact, proposes it to us, and we see it well – that it be merely formal and non-constitutive advertising. In other words, the couple in fact will not be constituted by the fact that they are registered in the register, but it will be for the purpose of formal advertising. And there was a basic issue in this regulation, which has pushed for the need to legislate this in our autonomous community, which is basically the problem of widowhood pensions, not retirement pensions, which establishes the General Social Security Act, for common-law couples. There was a need in the State to establish, through registration, such links in order to have access to the widow's pension. Until now, those municipalities in which a register existed did not cover the need to provide sufficient security, for the purpose of accrediting social security, to this link that was required to register, for the simple reason that in the future of people's lives one can have couples in fact consecutive over time in various municipalities, and then it could happen that there were different petitioners of a widow's pension and that they could be able to prove registration in various municipalities. Since the State does not understand these becomings of the people and their affections, and what it wants before paying the money is to know if, in fact, there was this link and this continuity in the common life, therefore, it is logical that a single register be made at the autonomous level and that such a register gives credence to the link between the partners in fact. This social and political need – social, therefore, a need that is conveyed politically – makes us absolutely agree on the need, for the benefit of those who can then receive a widow's pension, to regulate this. He has referred to the rulings of the Constitutional Court, which we appreciate in these stormy times. It is true, he is right, that the Constitutional Court, in order to promote equality among all Spaniards, has asked that we all have the same criterion, and without prejudice to our exclusive competence in civil law, which we have developed, it is for this reason that we create this register. This also leads us to legal analysis, which is whether or not we had the power to regulate something that, a priori, seems to be reserved by the Constitution by public registers exclusively to the State. This is an issue that is absolutely clear to us, because in the area of our exclusive capacity to legislate on civil law, and in particular on de facto couples, because the State has never come to regulate the question of de facto couples, we have regulated autonomy by autonomy, because it is obvious that this competence to create this particular register that derives from this exclusive competence of de facto couples, falls to us too. With this, as we do not invade any state competition, but what we do is harmonize to get an advantage for our citizens, which is the retirement pension, so, as far as the issue of competences and registers is concerned, we see no obstacle or problem in continuing on this path. In addition, there are other autonomous communities in Spain that have already legislated and have already established these registers without any problems on the part of the State. Therefore, if politically and socially it seems good to us, if we believe that it is within the scope of our competences, because little more remains for us to examine, but whether or not it is valid, whether there are the requirements that are required for the validation of a decree that, as we know, a decree law is a..., let us say, is a way of legislativeizing that should be exceptional in a government, if these circumstances of exceptional urgency are to be met to be validated by the deputies of this chamber. Here we see that the exceptional urgency is more questionable. You, that mandate given to you for a certain time, have far exceeded it. To put it this way, they have fallen asleep and are now asking us to run to fix their lack of diligence in the handling of this parliamentary mandate. And in addition, this lack of diligence, therefore, makes us think that you, who give yourselves four months in this decree to develop these records, because it also makes us doubt that this period will be fulfilled so peremptory that you put yourselves on. We hope that the council has already taken the steps, because here in the Royal Decree, the economic memory for the creation of this record shines through its absence, eh? , the economic impact is not, of the regulation we know nothing, and we hope that this time you will meet the deadlines that you yourself provide for in this decree. And I also say to you that our group, with this 'but and with this criticism, this is not going to be an obstacle for us to vote in favour of validation, because it seems to us that the interest of those who have to have their future right to a widow's pension protected, seems to us to be a priority; and this issue of the urgency that you, as we understand it, have not taken it well, so it is not going to be an obstacle for us to vote in favour. We believe that this should be a responsible opposition, with a certain amount of political perspective. You know that your Government, in office, is not enjoying the drift it has taken in recent times. We don't like the one you could take, although we also know that you don't know what's going to happen in these times of instability. We hope that, just as you have done now, a work, therefore, of plausible government and a..., have legislated through the decree law, so that it has been sought to protect the interest of the people, we also hope that this perspective and, moreover, that, so to speak, obedience to the lines that mark us the Constitutional Court and the legislation in general Spanish, because it is respected and we can do, I hope, among all, a more calm and more reasonable and productive legislature than it is looking to be in the coming..., at least, if we have to put ourselves to do the vaticin for the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.6.0	Next, there is the illustrious Lady Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.7.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, today they are bringing us to the validation of the Decree of 6 October 2015 (Law No. 3/2015) concerning the creation of the register of party pairs, which comes from the mandate of this Parliament, which, by Resolution 786/X of the last parliamentary term, urged the Government to establish a register of party pairs, in which it may be possible to register the persons residing in Catalonia who complement the requirements of the book according to our Civil Code. We want to point out, as we did in the debate in which he gave place to the creation of this register, the import of his creation; import for the fact that it means taking a step further in the adaptation of the right to social reality. It is obvious that the name of pairs of facts in Catalonia is growing. And, therefore, we must advance not only in the recognition of their rights, but we must implement the necessary instruments to give them greater legal certainty. And, in this sense, we have to say that our substantial right, as has already been recognized, already recedes the parles of fact. But there was a much more important part, if we take into account the consequences, which is the procedural part, the part of the proof of the existence of the pairs of facts. And it is that we have seen stable couples, with children in common and bonds not so sentimental, but also economics and mortgages, have had difficult problems due to the difficulty of proof ad solemnity, of the stability of their couple relationship. This fact has in some cases, even, led to the impossibility of recovering a widow's pension. In this line, as the preamble of the same decree says, constitutional case law has been understood as a useful means of proof to prove the existence of the pair of facts its inscription in a specific register, created for the autonomous community or municipality of the pair. Arriving at this point, in the municipal area, we find that there are no registers in all municipalities and that the lack of connection in those existing ones can lead to problems of double registration, for example, and therefore of lack of legal certainty. It is obvious, therefore, that there is a need for the establishment of the register at the level of all of Catalonia to have a useful and sufficient means of proof to prove the existence of the pairs of facts, and, in any case, also to prove its dissolution. And not only because of the sorgid demands of Spanish constitutional jurisprudence, but also because of European legislation. Thus, Resolution 786 emanates from an obvious citizen need and a legal need no less obvious. And, therefore, the decree that today presents us to the validation backwards these needs and the mandates contained in the same Resolution 786. The first, as I said, was the constitution and regulation of the register; the second, that this constitution and regulation is done with agreement between the Department of Justice and local associations – which I take advantage of to greet, since today they are present in this chamber–, so to speak the decree, which can place delegations or access windows to the inscription of the constitution or dissolution of the parles de fet in most of the municipalities of Catalonia, with the maximum approval and simplification of applicable criteria and of the requirements that can be accredited, as the Councillor told us. We know that these contacts with municipal entities have recently been initiated, and we hope that the result of these contacts will be translated into an agreement between the Government of the Generality and the same entities for the implementation of the register, always respecting municipal autonomy and combining it with the efficiency and effectiveness of this tool. Our group would not be able to understand in any way the deployment of this register if it were not, if not with the total and absolute complicity of the municipalities, which, in the end and in the end, respect a principle of proximity with the citizens. The councillor told us before we had to have emergency regulations, and it is true, but let us take advantage of them to say that we are late, that we are late as many other issues that are very important to the citizen and citizens of Catalonia. Because we know that these contacts with municipal authorities have only recently begun, as we have said, and therefore we are convinced that we still need to completely close this agreement with them and also to approve the regulation to which the decree refers and to make the deployment to the whole territory, physically and effectively, of the register. So, counselor, let's go late, let's go too late. As we say in the debate in which the creation resolution of the register was approved, while we decide on a regular basis-there may be situations where, in practice, there are difficult difficulties for couples who live together in a stable way. We have seen in the press different news, not only from Catalonia but from other communities, in which the lack of these records, the lack of record of stable union between two people, not marriage, entails problems, as I said before, in order to obtain widowhood pensions. Therefore, we ask them to be zealous. Entering the text of the decree, we have to tell you that it seems obvious to us that this decree waives the regulation of the organization, the functioning and the publicity of the register, which commends the regulatory way. And, therefore, it will be the adviser or adviser competent to develop this regulation. From our point of view, it should have been the same decree that today we are presented with the rules governing these extremes, just as other autonomous communities have done, such as Galicia, the Balearic Islands or Cantabria, since, otherwise, the decree that they are presenting us today does not contain and make it impossible for the groups of this chamber to make contributions. Finally, tell them that, despite those points that we have put forward that we understand that they could have been done in another way and above all more quickly, our group will vote in favour of validation with the conviction that the register must be a good tool to give legal certainty and, ultimately, to make the lives of citizens easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.8.0	Next, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.9.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors, president, good morning. Greeting the guests and, if I may, greet especially former Member and Councillor Salvador Milà, who, as has already been referred to by the Councillor, was the author of that resolution approved by the Commission of Justice on September 2014, more than a year ago, claiming that you are creating this unique register of pairs of facts. Now that no one is listening to us, if I may, I will confess that our parliamentary group has already called this decree into law as the "Mila decree", with the Councillor's permission. But to be faithful to the reality and above all to what the Saviour would have said if he were the one who was present today intervening from this rostrum, this decree, in reality, is the result of the demand of the associations of the blind, the feminists, the unions, who were the ones who brought to us the complaint of this situation that was generated with that judgment of the Constitutional Court and that the rest of the deputies and deputies of the Justice Commission also came and stayed, and therefore deserved all and everyone else. Before I go into the matter, let me have a hint that we think it's going to happen. There is no need for the content or effects of what we approve of today, but, at a time of social emergence like the present, that the Parliament of Catalonia is meeting only to validate a decree that was already born with the consent of this Parliament is to make us look at it. It's to make us - look what you're doing about a_me that was constituted the Parliament and we're not able to resume processing the ILP's guaranteed citizenship income. It is to make us - to make it look that we have not yet debated in this chamber on the situation of SEAT ; neither has it been possible to get explanations from the Government on the non-compliment of the open starting commitment to cover the groves for all the children who need it, and it is to make us - to make it look that we are not talking in this chamber about the payment to the pharmacies, to the residents, to the entities, together, as the municipal authorities know, also present in this chamber. Life and the needy and social emergencies are not ending in our country, and the blockage in which this Parliament is in favour of the trust of the citizenry in the institutions. From the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible that we may not give ourselves up and continue to demand for all possible lives that, even if they are in office, or sooner in service, and that the full national route and agreement for the investiture are blocked, this Parliament is worthy of the citizenship to which we represent, and we work all that we can in everything we can and still more. And now, entering into matter, this Decree Law of the creation of the Single Registry of Parellas de Fet, in our opinion, gives answer to a threefold problem that we had at this time, to which we have already referred, respect the consequences of the ruling of the Constitutional Court of March 2014, which provoked the presentation of that resolution to the Commission of Justicia to which we referred earlier, because the finalization in terms of access to viduity pensions, especially for autonomous communities like Catalonia, for its specificities, therefore, would like to give it an answer. With this unique register of administration, we resolve the consequences of this differential element of registration that we had in Catalonia and that generated this problem from the realization of the conditions of the Constitutional Court, and therefore we resolve or improve and guarantee the protection of the right to the benefit of viduity without discrimination to all those pairs of facts that credit the compliment of the conditions that establish the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, and that, as has been said, is not changed. We therefore maintain this specificity in the definition of 'pair of fact' which we have regulated in the Civil Code of Catalonia; with this single register we resolve the procedural element of how the existence of this pair of fact is documented or accredited. First problem they solve. Second problem: to adapt to European directives, because European Directive 2004/38 also speaks of the need for these unions to establish a public register in order to be able to certify them. And we also found ourselves with circumstances that could cause problems in effecting the rights recognized for a given pair of facts if, for example, we were to live in another European country; therefore, the problem that we also resolve with this unique Register of facts pairs. I, third problem – and not to say the least – the social and territorial equalitys that already existed in Catalonia to guarantee the rights of the families constituted as a couple of facts. Because municipal registers, as you know, were creating our country at a time, at a time, as a way to allow especially regulating the rights of same-sex couples, but when it was regulated the homosexual marriage went missing; they went missing with this and went missing too, and let's remember it, at a certain stage, after a legislative change in foreign affairs, in 2010, which allowed the Register of Couples to facilitate the formalities for requesting the family residence tag. There were conflicts and doubts on the part of the local world, on the part of various municipalities and cities– symbolically, the first one to eliminate the Registry of Couples of Facts for this reason was the city of Barcelona, with Mayor Trias – because there were difficulties in the actual inability of the municipalities to control that there have been frauds or duplications, as has already been mentioned before, in inscriptions of pairs of facts. Therefore, we solve three problems: we solve what is caused by the judgment of the Constitutional Court for viduity pensions; we solve the difficulty for European legislation, the European directives, also, to be registered the pairs of facts validly to the rest of Europe, and we solve especially this difference or this social and territorial non-equity that already existed in Catalonia ; social, because the way in which you can resolve to register yourself as a couple of facts in a municipality or city where there was no record was going to the notaries, and therefore paying minute notaries, and therefore, depending on the money you have in the butxaca..., you can or do not constitute yourself as a couple of facts. We also add to the criticism of the delay, counselor. To the resolution approved by Parliament on 25 September 2014 is said – and it was so agreed that it was approved – that it gave a new deadline because it was constituted this unique registry. It's been more than a year and today it's not going to be this one-of-a-kind registry, because it's going to be necessary to deploy this rule for which it's given four_months of time to fill it out. So we're making them a double petition: in one band, since they're late and they're late, let's hope they solve this lack of diligence now and don't triage three months or four months to approve this rule. In fact, let's hope he's already well-prepared, and so he's going to be as fast as possible to make this unique set of pairs of facts. And one petition: that it actually completes with the other element that was approved to the resolution more than a year ago to the Parliament of Catalonia, and that, as the councillor was bought in his intervention, the access to the process is really free and accessible, as at least – as at the very least – from any municipal registry. Thus, they conclude, in order to guarantee the equality of legal, economic and social conditions to the various forms of family, as stated in Article 40 of the Statute of Autonomy, of Catalonia Yes, we can approve the validation of this decree. And because this guarantee of rights is realized as soon as possible and completes with the need for social and territorial equity, we call on the Government to quickly adopt this regulation, and to rapidly deploy this unique register of pairs of facts, and to ensure access to the free and free process, and through municipal registers. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.10.0	Next, there is the illustrious Lady Esperança García, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.11.0	Madam President, Members of Parliament are called on today, precisely, to pass an emergency decree on the legal need to regulate a single register of pairs of facts. It is based on a judgment of the Constitutional Court concerning an interpretation of the Law of Social Security, with which, therefore, it is not permitted that couples who do not have an accreditation of their constitution as a couple and a stable union of couples do not have access to a widow's pension. I wanted to take a look back. At the time, when this law was approved, both the stable couple union and the reform of the Catalan Civil Code, with its free second family, one of the things that was proposed was the lack of legal certainty that the fact of approving the creation of municipal, local, disconnected, informal registers, which did not have the same characteristics as the ordinary and official registers, which gave public faith with all certainty and legality. In fact, when this law of pairs was approved, there were 407 papers. Imagine how many mistakes there were in legal terms in this law that served as a basis and as a minimum... regulators for both heterosexuals and homosexuals, as well as 407 items. In its moment, our party, the People's Party of Catalonia, with our companion Mrs. Dolors Nadal, refers to this lack of legal certainty that would give these records. And the proof is that today we find ourselves where we find ourselves, they don't get a ruling from the Constitutional Court, but they get all the legal practice that there was in Catalonia, that there was in Catalan courts, where the right to thought was systematically denied to people who had decided to live together with a different bond, that was not the civil marriage, but a stable couple union. The reality is that many pairs were in two situations. How can they prove their stable coexistence in pairs? And then he said the law all the time. So, I did it two ways: either with these inscriptions, these records, which were not practically used as a re; in fact... I say that they were not used as a re because the proof is that they were closed; they were closed, and they were closed because there was not enough guarantee, there was, as the Catalonian company said Yes, it is possible, situations of fraud, double registration, and then, to all this, therefore, practically a decade later they were closed in many Catalan localities. So, I'd do it by putting this, these inscriptions that didn't serve them. And I also did it with very long and far-fetched procedures, where they made use of as proof of their existence as a couple of facts, so, things as serious as presumptions, right? , as registrations, such as carrying an invoice for a house administration, such as giving witness statements, with the comings of the ladder, said: "These lords agree together from now on, and in this way, and in an uninterrupted way. You..., the game of. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Convergence and Union, during his time, when he approved this, made a separate defense for Union and another for Convergence, so as to explain, therefore, that this law would serve us and serve the parles of fact as legal certainty and as a way of holding, as a minimum, rights that seemed to the parles that had decided to constitute civil marriages. But you had a systemic negative to see that the practical problems of applying this would come out a little bit; if it was a matter of time! Even his deputy– Convergence, in this case– Araceli Vendrell at the time said: "This is a law of minimums. It's not to worry, that we'll regulate it further, complement all the things that we see with practice that are not complete... And, in fact, you decided, therefore, to leave it, that, at the hands of the see of the ladder, of the return social worker, of the temporary registers without guarantees... I, you see, we're here today. And we are here, therefore, with a proposal for approval of an urgent approval decree so that we can ensure that those couples have a single register, with certain guarantees, and that they can access social rights to access the couples that have decided to marry, right? And I ask myself a question, and I do it as a Catalan citizen, and also as a couple of facts: is it that you, when you made the book according to the Catalan Civil Code, didn't see that there were problems in the Catalan courts? Is it that you can't predict that the fact that social security was a matter that regulated state legislation in 2008, with a reform, wouldn't give more trouble in the future? Did you also think that these records, which are totally informal, could be reliable evidence in court proceedings? He didn't warn them that in some locations, even, these records are opened six years after the law came into force, and that even some records are tanks after that? Is it that you had no sense of alarm, of fact, of the same Catalan courts? Was it that there were no feelings in the Catalan social courts? Was it that there were no feelings at the provincial hearings? Is it that there were no judgments at the Supreme Court of Justice in Catalonia? And of course there was! From the year 99; one year, just one year after the approval of this law. I explain to you in concrete terms: a couple of Hospitallet who have had the bad luck of deciding to be legal and follow Catalan law, and go into a register and register'scom in parella, and that after fifteen years, so, miri, this lady has had the bad luck that her couple died and was left without a thought of viduity. That was reality. They also had lawyers' alerts. Escotin, the year 2007, a year earlier, explained to him the Pompeu Fabra University that the reform of the Law of Social Security..., and I quote textually: "In the light of the reform of the General Law of Social Security, it is obvious that the Catalan regulation on stable unions has remained in question. That's what the jurists give them. And they also gave it to those people who were part of the session of the Academy of Jurisprudence and Legislation of Catalonia, and did it no more or less than the May 2013. Why didn't they serve the book according to the Catalan Civil Code to make these reforms? You have left thousands of Catalan citizens, who have had to endure two things: first, your poor legislative technique, and second, an absolute disconnection and ignorance of the problems that had arisen, day after day, in Catalan courts; not from outside: Catalan courts. They have condemned them to be second-guessed citizens for many years, who to the loss of the esteemed being..., who to the loss of the loved one..., also condemned them to the loss of their social rights, to be able to access a pension, on simple technical legislative issue. They had been sentenced for years to discrimination; yes, they had been discriminated against, because couples who decided to marry had no problem with access to any of the social rights or pensions. The fact that, together with the reality of the regulation of homosexual couples and their effective access to the right to marriage, for many years, couples ceased to give up living as they considered to be their legitimate way of living, because they remained at a disadvantage to others and went to seek legal shelter by entering into marriage out of necessity, but not, of course, out of will, and out of necessity often vital. Make sure that you argue the urgency of this decree, seventeen months after a sentence. In eighteen we were told the other day that they wanted to form a new state, but in fifteen – in fifteen – no more or less than fifteen, they have been unable to correct errors and guarantee rights. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] And yet... – well, they wouldn't laugh so much; it wouldn't do me any grace – and yet, as from the People's Party we think we have to work to ensure that the interests and defense of the rights of Catalan couples are equal, in social justice conditions, and doing a very exceptional exercise of good faith in respect of that decree law that you have presented here– and I say « an exercise of good faith because, as the comrade of the Socialist Party said, the decree law can be said to be unspecific», right? –, we will trust you, and we will trust you for the benefit of the general interest, which are the Catalan couples, and we will vote in favour. We're going to vote in favour and we're going to validate that decree. And what we are asking of you from the People's Party is that when you make the regulatory development of that decree law you present us here today, please go carefully. Please try – try – to ensure that registration and social security competences are respected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.12.0	Next, the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Parliamentary Group candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.13.0	President, Members of Parliament, Members of the Government, we are much more brief and in front of the tent, let us say, our intervention. We will give a positive vote to the decree and to the validation of the decree, and we will only make a few points, let's say, as we interpret the moment of approval of this decree. It is a decree relating to the pairs of facts, and we are and have always been firm defenders of the figure of the couple of facts; not as an exclusive institution, but as an instrument of recognition of the family realities of different, plural and not necessarily heteronormative pairs. It is for us, the couple of facts, a left to the unique vision, to the one thought, to the fixed photo and to the model of family imposed during centuries for Catholic England and for the capitalist system. Therefore, to speak of pairs of facts, for us, is to give fresh air to our society and equip it with instruments to adapt the right to society. Catalonia was a pioneer in the regulation of party pairs – it has already been said to be up to satiety – a pioneer at the level of the entire state of the 1990s and, therefore, as a sign of mature society and of the open society that we are. But today, and in this sense that it is only, let's say, as the only question, but agree with what the representative of the People's Party has proposed, we are talking about couple of facts here today because we are going to talk to the Constitutional Court about it. We do not do this by our own volition, beyond the decision taken at the time for this chamber, but above all by the ruling of the Constitutional Court concerning the recognition of the right to receive a widow's pension in relation to the parles de fet. And, therefore, we want to lay on the table, once more, the illegitimacy of this Constitutional Court, which does not only act as a guarantor, supposedly, of the Constitution, but we understand that it also acts against all those institutions of change, innovation and modification and adaptation of our reality. And he did, in this concrete case, attacking – let's think one of the first times – the Catalan regulatory capacity in the area of civil law. Therefore, we want to contradict in this sense the whole demagoguery of the People's Party in relation to the question of the recognitions of viduity, right to the viduity of the actual pairs. We, as superiors who are in the matter of civil law, have already regularized how the pair of facts should be, and that is why it approved the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, in a sense clearly agile, clearly not bureaucratic, without registers, and with an absolutely innovative, modern regulation and according to the current European perspective. If there have been pairs of facts that have not taken the pension, it has not been for the Catalan regulation, it has been for the state regulation and the threefold of the Spanish social security, that has refused to recognize the sovereign capacity of this Parliament in an exclusive competition, as was the civil law of Catalonia. I suppose you'll tell us or think that we don't have civil rights in Catalonia either, and I suppose that's also what the Constitutional Court heard, from its exclusive Spanishophilia, to which we are so accustomed. Therefore, we from the CUP - Creed constitute apostate, as we used to do, to disobey this new instruction of the palates of the Spanish court. But to disobey this ruling of the Constitutional Court would mean that a lot of people in our house would stop taking a widow's pension, and, therefore, it would be absurd, a weak favor, precisely, to those who, like the People's Party, want to retail rights and retail pensions wrongly and rightly. That is why we are voting for it today, hoping that we will soon have a Catalan republic with a law of social security that from here reconfigures all this paperwork, all its bureaucracy, and that establishes a new scheme of protection for people. And from this perspective, we'll end up with two brief points of memory to blow this little institution that we're discussing today. For us, speaking of Catalan civil law is an opportunity to link us to the Catalan historical institutions, and this, for us, is always a way to disable the effects of the New Plant Decree and to recognize that the political subject matter that we are the Catalans, such as right-wing and, therefore, also sovereign, was much more necessary than the 1978 text. Because sometimes it seems that everything we have is autonomous and exists by almost divine concession of the Spanish monarchy and of the Constitution of 78, and we must remember that we have civil rights close to us long before 1978, and even long before the Constitution of Cadis, which many times some quote in this chamber. Therefore, less than twenty-four hours to celebrate the forty years of the dictator's death, to speak of Catalan civil law, of fact pairs, of recognition of rights is a way of demonstrating that this people will rise to resist the long night of the dictatorship and that we are here to keep the hope of struggle and change of all those who preceded us and that the franchise tried to eliminate it and silence it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.14.0	Next, there is the illustrious Lady Anna Caula, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.15.0	Good morning. Madam President, Mr President, Councillor of Justice, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members, as many of you have said so far, the debate we are having today refers to the need to ensure equality before the law of the different types of coexistence in pairs, especially for the recognition of the rights of social security. The decree that we are debating today refers to the creation of the Catalonian area register of stable pairs and counting on the support of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. To hear the debate that we are having today we must remember that the Catalan civil right has recognized through standards approved for this Parliament, a few years ago, the equality before the law of the different types of coexistence in pairs. In this way, in later years, in many areas of our lives, the laws have been equalizing the rights of stable couples to marriage, even though they are not constituted as such and they are as a couple of facts, whether registered or not in the register. In the field of social security, the right to receive a widow's pension is recognized by the member of a stable pair if it was more than five years old. In order to prove the constitution in parella de fet, the State Law of Social Security required registration in a register, with the exception of: in those territories with civil rights similar to Catalonia, recognition is not implied by registration in the register, only according to what gave the first civil law of each territory. The Civil Code of Catalonia, in its second book and in articles 234-1 and following, regulated the parelles de fet. It is considered that two persons form a stable pair and, therefore, it recognizes at the legal level all the effects that this has if one of the following three requirements is fulfilled: a common cohabitation of more than two years uninterrupted, if during cohabitation they have a common child or daughter or have constituted themselves as such in public writing, is to say before a notari. Therefore, according to the Catalan rule, if it could be proved that there had been enough coexistence, it was right to perceive the thought of widowhood. The Constitutional Court, however, in a judgment of the year 2014 annulled this exception and left in legal terms and, therefore, with contempt and inequality, the stable pairs of Catalonia. For one band, the Catalan civil law recognized them as stable couples, but the state law of social security, no, an administrative aspect affecting the citizens of Catalonia, and because that is not the result of amending Catalan legislation. Catalan legislation on stable pairs did not provide for a registration system for its constitution and accreditation, but the legislator chose a system of unregistered pairs. The solution to this situation is the creation of a register of stable couples in Catalonia, which is created with this decree law. The entry in the register will serve as proof before the social security that the pair carries, effectively, constituted as such and recorded the time that specifies the rules in force. Therefore, you will have the right to perceive the thought of widowhood. It creates, therefore, a useful and sufficient means to prove the existence of the actual pair. In addition, it is essential to make the possible transcendence at the level of the European Union's legislation. It is true that there have been municipal registers of fact pairs in Catalonia, but they have gone through – as many of you have gone through them – in disuse, basically for two reasons. The first, that the registers were not connected to each other and, therefore, there could be a person registered with two stable pairs different in two different municipalities. Aware of this, it was very difficult for registration in a municipal registry to be served as a method of proof to demonstrate coexistence before social security. The second is that, since the Catalan law considers it to be a parella independent of whether or not it is registered, many parellas do not register in the municipal registers. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that many assemblies do not provide their citizens with this register, since it is a question of power and not of obligation of each assembly, and some limit the possible inscription to their villains. The ruling of the Constitutional Court, therefore, placed the stable pairs in Catalonia in a situation of unprotectiveness, and that is why it is necessary to create an area register of Catalonia. In the past parliamentary term, a motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously by all the groups, which urged the Government to create this register, which has been done through a law. This is the point that we are debating today, validating. Taking into account the urgency to build this register, a law decree was passed to assist and protect a right from the city. The decree that we are debating today establishes the creation of this register by means of a provision in the Civil Code of Catalonia. We believe that this compliments both the parliamentary mandate to create the register as, at the same time, to take a step forward to ensure equality between all stable forms of pair, are constituted as marriages or as stable pair. To thank, at this time, also, the collaboration between the municipal associations and the Collège de Notaris for facilitating coordination with the Department of Justice at the time of building the register. We understand that this collaboration will allow a great amount of access to the register through the notaries and the assemblies that they want, a positive aspect also to be mentioned from the advisor's words, ensuring the universality and gratuity of access to the register of established pairs. For these reasons we will vote in favour of the validation of the law decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.16.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] According to Rule 155.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the derogation. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, we're ringing the bell and waiting a minute. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Now yes, the vote begins. (Pause.) With the result, Decree Ill 3/2015 is validated by 131 votes in favour, 0 votes against and 0 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] According to Rule 155.4 of the Rules, one time the decree has been validated I ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants to deal with this decree as the draft law. [[Pause.]] As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. Let's continue, then, with the next point of the order of the day. [[Report of the Permanent Assembly]] [[243-00001/11]] The second point is the report from the Permanent Chamber. In accordance with Rule 74.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the Permanent Chamber must give the plenary of the Parliament an account of the decisions taken and of the matters dealt with in the period between legislatures. As the report of the Permanent Chamber is included in the file of the House, which has been distributed to all Members, I therefore urge them to complete their reading. If you agree, we can give by substance this point of the order of the day. Do you agree? [[Pause.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women]] [[401-00002/11]] Therefore, the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women will be read. The second vice president will do the reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.17.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia with the motto of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. With the motto of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, which is celebrated on 25 November, the Parliament of Catalonia wants to express the rebuff of male violence and to contribute institutionally to the eradication of it by means of a determined attitude. The visible figures of male-based violence in all its forms and expressions, such as mistreatment in the realm of the pair, sexual rape or work placements, among other multiple manifestations, and the evident increase in violence among the youngest population, show an unacceptable reality in any democratic country. Catalonia is no alien to this reality. According to official data, six women have been murdered and in the last two years 100 women have been murdered. It's a sham that keeps growing dramatically and questioning democracy's foundations, unable to guarantee the right of women to live free of violence. Despite the fact that there is specific legislation, such as the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December, on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence, Law 5/2008 of 24 April, on the right of women to eradicate male-based violence, or the recently adopted Law 17/2015 of 21 July, on the effective equality of women and men, representing a firm step towards the transfer of male-based violence from the private to the public and political arena, the Parliament of Catalonia notes the need to reaffirm a stable and persistent commitment to public administration and to adopt the measures and to provide the resources to address the scourge of male-based violence from a comprehensive and multi-disciplinary perspective and to address all the factors that perpetuate it. In this very sense, the Parliament of Catalonia is concerned with the requests of the organizations that warn of the incompliments of international legislation, the need to encourage the deployment to Catalonia of dispositions to eradicate male violence and the need to make a change in course of decision, with active and courageous policies to fight against masculinism. It is necessary to let the aggressors know the rebreed and the absolute condemnation of all expressions of male violence, as well as the subtlest and most symbolic. We must send a strong message so that zero tolerance for femicide and male violence in all its forms is made clear. In this sense, the Parliament of Catalonia, in compliment of the Declaration on the First Mortal Victim of Male Violence in Catalonia of 2015, taken on the 22nd generation of 2015, has repressed the commitment to regret at the beginning of each plenary session, every time there is a dead woman for male violence, the new case occurred and the total number of mortal victims, as measured in order to advance in the awareness and prevention of male violence in Catalonia. As society needs greater awareness of this scourge of violence against women, the Catalonian Parliament is calling on public institutions and civil society to deploy the law of effective equality of women and men. Parliament of Catalonia, November 19, 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-19-0401.18.0	Thank you very much, all of you. And the session goes up.
