ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.1.0	It's part of the session. In accordance with Rule 146 of the House Rules, the debate will take place following the sequence agreed for the Board of Spokespersons of the past divendres. [[Agenda debate and investiture vote by Mr Arthur Mas and Mr Gavarró, candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat (continuation)]] [[201-00001/11]] The candidate can use the word as many times as I ask, without time limitation. When the candidate responds individually to one of the Members who have spoken, the candidate will have a straight line of time equal to the one purchased for the candidate. If you have answered the replies, which will also be time-limited, the group may have a counter-replication of five minutes. The vote for the investiture of the President of the Generality will be made public by appeal, in accordance with Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. First of all, there is the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.2.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by condemning and regretting the last murder of a woman in the hands of her partner or ex-partner. I believe that the fight against gender-based violence is something that should unite us with all political forces. Having said that, we are in the investiture debate. Mr. Mas, yesterday, made a speech of more than an hour and a half explaining why he believes he should be the next president of the Generalitat and applying for that. Well, today, Mr. Mas, we will explain to you why you will not have the support of Citizens to be the next president of the Generalitat and why, in our opinion, you should not be the next president of the Generalitat. A President of the Generalitat must have credibility and you, I regret to say to him, Mr Mas, that you have less and less. In 2010 you had a majority parliamentary group, with sixty-two Members. In 2012 he felt the call of the people, called elections and lost twelve seats; asking for an exceptional majority, he carried an exceptional electoral batacazo. In 2015, in a third autonomous election in five years, you summon and draw a result, together with the Republican Left of Catalonia and independent candidates for pro-independence social platforms, draw sixty_and_two deputies. We understand that those who belong to your political group should be around thirty, thirty and five seats. With these results, many other politicians have gone home, Mr Mas. With these results, after asking for majority support, after advancing the elections twice, you have not had the support you expected. And besides, you were trying to read these autonomic elections as if they were a plebiscite. We have repeated it many times: it was not a plebiscite, but you were striving to read the results as if they were such a thing and you, that supposed plebiscite, have lost it. It is also recognized by its independent adventure partners such as the masters of the CUP. Moreover, a president of the Generalitat must have credibility, as I say, and you cannot have credibility when you are president of the Generalitat, you come again wanting to be president of the Generalitat again and you go number four on a list. The normal thing, in democracy, is that if a person is president and wants to re-present himself for president, he leads his electoral list and does not hide from number four in an amalgam of parties and entities. In addition, you sell that you are very successful in selling your project and I say to you: internationally you have had a zero success. There is not one of the international leaders that gives you support in this secessionist adventure that you have promoted. That is why, Mr. Mas, when you say that you have credibility to be president, when you say that your management and your electoral successes endorse you, I can only tell you, Mr. Mas, that it does not hang. The second of the reasons why you shouldn't be president of the Generalitat, in our opinion, is because a president of the Generalitat has to manage well, and you have a hangicap and we know how you manage. You have already been President of the Generality for five years – for five years – and yesterday, in the speech, allow me to tell you that we have not found a peak of self-criticism, nor a peak of self-criticism in the management of the last five years. It is clear that you have been president at a difficult time, a time of crisis, a time when public administrations do not have all the resources they want to meet all the needs, but you, with the resources you had, have made bad decisions. You have cut social spending by 17_per_cent. Catalonia is the autonomous community number 14 in health expenditure per capita and the number 12 in education expenditure per capita. You have increased your debt in five years by more than 90_per_cent. Yes, it is true that you received an unpleasant gift from the tripartite, but it is that you have overcome the insurmountable, you have made good the management of the tripartite, at least as far as debt is concerned. And Catalonia is the autonomous community that has the most debt. That, of course, is not to manage the accounts well, the finances of the Generalitat, not to mention scandalous, irrecoverable cases such as Spanair, such as ATLL, or some of the most scandalous privatizations that you have starred in, have sold the crown jewels, which gave money, the profitable, to companies that, moreover, casually always find themselves in the different contracts. Meanwhile – in the meantime – cuts in health, education, social services. So, Mr. Mas, when I hear you talking about social sensitivity, talking about poor people, I'm sorry, Mr. Mas, but it doesn't hang, because we already know how you deal with problems. Right now we have the pharmacies with an insurmountable debt, they have a Generalitat debt of more than 330_million; the concerted centers; there are many companies right now, in Catalonia, that are drowned. So much so that you speak of drowning by the Government of Spain, there are many companies here in Catalonia, which also provide public services, which are absolutely stifled, because you prefer to spend money on the most expensive televisions and public radios in Spain, on the regional councils, on duplicate entities, on the diplomat, on embassies, on all those things that you like so much, that I also tell you that you have very little success then, at international level, with what you claim, but you cut; you are hard on the weak and you are very weak with those who have power, and that, Mr. Mas, is not a good way to govern. In addition, this identity debate, this separatist drift, these statements in Parliament, have consequences and Catalonia is an autonomous community that has lost businesses in recent years. We've lost more than 1,300 companies. And you will say: "Of course, we are in crisis, all the autonomous communities have lost businesses. Well, no, there are other autonomous communities, like Madrid, that have won one thousand eight hundred companies in these years of crisis. Only in 2014, a thousand companies from Catalonia went not to other countries, no, no, they went to other autonomous communities of Spain, in 2014. So, Mr. Mas, when you say that you manage well, that you have social sensitivity, that you care about the poverty and suffering of Catalans, I'm sorry, but it doesn't hang. The third of the reasons why, in our view, you cannot be the next president of the Generalitat is undoubtedly for corruption. I give you a reflection, Mr. Mas, that I do not know if you are conscious. In his speech yesterday, about an hour and a half, an hour and a half speaking, he did not utter the word "corruption," he did not utter it. He spoke of transparency, he spoke of regaining confidence, but he did not speak of corruption, the second problem of Catalans. Does it seem normal to you, with what you have on top of it? With 3_per_cent, with fifteen places of corruption, with the treasurer of your party in prison without bail, do you think it is normal that a president of the responsible Generalitat, a president of the Generalitat committed to the fight against corruption, will not once pronounce the word "corruption"? I believe that a president who does not dare to talk about corruption, a president who denies that he exists, cannot be a president who fights this scourge of institutions and politics. In addition, Mr Mas, you, in the appearance we had before this Parliament was formed on Friday of the previous week, denied that there was corruption in Catalonia that was assimilated or linked to public procurement. You denied the largest, you denied the basis of many of the people who are currently investigating, are fighting corruption not only in Catalonia, but in Spain as a whole. And it is precisely that the focus, on many occasions, of corruption, is on public procurement, and you have denied it. Therefore, a president who does not speak of corruption, who denies that it exists, cannot be president of the Generalitat. That is why, Mr Mas, when I hear you say that you are very committed to transparency and to the fight against corruption, I regret to say to you, Mr Mas, that it does not hang. And in addition, you recognized one thing, worrying, in that parliamentary statement, and you said textually: "If Catalonia becomes an independent state, I will not have to be held accountable to the Spanish courts. It's very serious. I ask you, Mr. Mas: do you have anything to do with the judicial investigations being carried out in your party for the ideological change that you and Mr. Pujol have made over the past few years? Before, you had made forceful statements against independence. You yourself made such sensible statements that independence is an old and rusty concept: "I will not take Catalonia to a path that causes collective frustration. Very sensible words, Mr. Mas, because you, in thirty years of politics, have said very sensible things too. Mr Pujol, also some, said: « Independence means leaving the European Union. Mr Pujol is very right about this, but all of a sudden, what happened so that Mr Pujol, Mr Mas, became the most independent of Catalonia? Do they have anything to do with court proceedings, do they have anything to do with the Pujol family being charged from the first to the last? Is it by chance or causation, Mr.Mas, that you have made this ideological change? The fourth of the reasons why you should not return to being President of the Generalitat is because a president unites your citizens and does not divide them, and you are going to go into history, Mr. Mas, as the president who tried to divide your citizens, the one who put a theme on the table that you know you divide. And we have seen it many times; you have made Catalans choose between feelings that are perfectly compatible, such as being Catalan and being Spanish. You said that those who participate in the independence demonstrations..., called to participate in independence demonstrations as president of the government, as president in theory of all Catalans, and you called on the Catalans to participate in independence demonstrations saying that "those who want the people of Catalonia to participate in the demonstrations of September 11th. This is very serious. A president unites his citizens, does not divide them, and a president does not make good and bad sides, but solves everyone's problems. In addition, you have not only divided Catalans, you have divided Catalans with the rest of Spanish. And you have made very serious statements in this Parliament, you have made it clear, and you have said clearly, that "if we had our resources we would be richer, we would have higher pensions, we would have higher salaries. Do you imagine a mayor of a economically powerful city who makes such statements from other peoples who are on the lake, who have higher unemployment rates, who have worse economic conditions? Would you allow it, Mr. Mas? Would you allow, within Catalonia, that you know perfectly, because you know it, that we have very different economic data, very different within Catalonia, would you allow that? Would it allow a mayor of a rich city, the mayor of Barcelona, the mayor of Barcelona, to make such statements about regions that suffer in a very important way from unemployment? I don't think you'd allow it. Therefore, do not do so with the rest of Spain, because that generates confrontation, that calls for insolidity, and that is serious because it leads us to decisions such as those made in this Parliament yesterday. Luckily – luckily – you don't have a social majority; I was telling you yesterday, you don't have a social majority, you don't even have a parliamentary majority to change the Statute, but, above all, you're not right. Because in the 21st century this makes no sense, to talk about differences, to highlight what separates us, to talk about raising new borders, to skip the legality of us, not to give accounts before the courts; this, Mr. Mas, you know it doesn't hang. Besides, I think the worst thing you've been responsible for in recent years, you know what I think it is, in my view? The use of the feeling of many Catalans who are independentists, who have trusted your word, when you told them that with independence we will tie dogs with longanizas; Catalans who have believed that with independence their elders will live better, they will have higher pensions; Catalans who have believed that with independence we will be richer. You are using the – legitimate – feeling of many Catalans who have believed in your president, and that is unforgivable, because you, as you have well recognized many other times, know that that will lead to collective frustration. But lucky – lucky – that we are in the 21st century, lucky that we are in the European Union, because you have not even managed, with such a long campaign, so many years and so many resources, to convince a majority of Catalans. Therefore, Mr. Mas, when you speak on behalf of Catalonia and call to disobedience and call to independence, when you speak on behalf of all Catalans, or at least a majority, I regret to tell you, Mr. Mas, that it does not hang. The fifth of the reasons why you should not be the next president of the Generalitat is because a president of the Generalitat has to comply and enforce the laws. And of that you know, because you have ruled; not only these five years, but you have been all in the government of Mr Jordi Pujol. You have enforced the law to the citizens, and well that you have done so. And sometimes unfair laws, demanding laws, high taxes, bureaucracy... You have forced citizens on foot to comply with their obligations, you have demanded that fines be paid when someone has not complied with the laws, you have demanded that self-employed people comply with an endless number of bureaucratic requirements that make their business difficult every day. But now, all of a sudden, you're saying that you don't have to comply with the laws, you don't have to be accountable to justice, that you're going to choose from now on what your court is, as if this were..., I don't know, the one who chooses hairdressing. No, no: you will have to go to court to account like any neighbor's son, and if you skip the laws, then you will have to answer to justice. Moreover, Mr. Mas, it cannot be the President of the Generalitat who is endangering our self-government. The President of the Generalitat has to defend the self-government of Catalonia, he has to use it, he has to exercise it, he has to defend this Parliament. You cannot push resolutions that endanger our self-government, the Parliament, our legislative capacity. It's not logical; it's not logical, Mr. Mas. And I also tell you one thing: when you call disobedience, when you call the insurrection, I'm sorry, but it doesn't hang. Because we know how it is, we know that you are a man of order, we know that you are a man who has ruled, who has forced people to comply with the laws. You, when you say you have to skip democratic laws, I'm sorry, but don't hang up. Because you don't believe it, you don't believe it. You have been in politics for thirty years, for good and for bad, and we know what you have defended. Moreover, when you talk about the democratic mandate, which is this new mantra..., the new mantra, right now, of independence is talking about the democratic mandate. This statement is especially funny to me, isn't it? , because, in your opinion, as you have presented yourselves to an election with a program that says you want independence, you already have a license and a blank cheque to carry out what you want, to skip the laws as you want, not to answer to justice. Man, I make the following reflection: I have presented myself to some elections – certainly, number 1_of_my candidacy, because I wanted to be president of the Generalitat, not like others – and I have presented myself with a program of eight hundred measures, and I have talked about health, education, support to families that are going through it worse, of autonomous, of SMEs, of infrastructures; also of requests to the Government of Spain to improve the model of financing, of improvement of infrastructures, of the Mediterranean Corridor..., in short, what is being an electoral program, not simply to declare independence. But do you think that, because I run for election with a program, if I win the election I can already apply it as I please? , do I already have a license, because you say it in my election program, to jump me the laws and the courts? But what kind of conclusion have some come to? Why, because your election program says so, do you already have a license to jump under the laws? No, no, no. I, in order to help the SMEs and the self-employed and the families that are having a bad time, will have to respect the laws as well, as has been done all my life; in democracy, of course. Therefore, a president of the Generalitat cannot call disobedience, cannot put our self-government in jeopardy. And you also forget to explain a detail, a small detail of your proposal for independence, and it is that you would take us, of course, from Spain, which is our main economic market, and therefore from the European Union. The gentlemen of the CUP are delighted with life with this scenario, because it is the only way they have to get Catalonia out of the European Union. And that is perfectly consistent with your idea: they are against the European Union and want to get us out; perfect. But you forget to explain to the Catalans that this brings us out of the European Union. And you also know that, because you have listened to Mrs Merkel, you have listened to Mr Van Rompuy, you have listened to Mr Barroso, you have listened to Mrs Reding, Mr Cameron, to whom you appeal so many times when you speak of a referendum, but you forget to remember your words when Mr Cameron says that leaving a country of the European Union is leaving the European Union. You know it, Mr. Mas, you know it. And when you talk here about the disconnection of the rest of Spain, what you're actually proposing is disconnecting from reality. And a president of the Generalitat cannot disconnect from reality; neither from the legal reality, nor from the political reality, nor from the social reality of what we are living in Catalonia. You know perfectly well that this is going to lead to frustration, and you make a number of statements that, really, it's not hanging that you believe them. You propose that, with independence, of course, we will magically appear within the European Union; we have not signed any treaties, we are not a Member State, but we will be there. And we will be greeted with open arms by countries like Italy, like Germany, like France, like Belgium..., some of them who even have emerging problems of nationalism. Do you believe that you are going to make a unilateral declaration of independence here and the Italian President, Mrs Merkel, the rulers of countries that have incipient nationalisms, are going to welcome you with open arms? Why, so that the north of Italy will do the same tomorrow and this will start to be the European Union instead of the European Union? You know, of course, that's not possible. And he's also counting on the old lady, I tell him. You say that with independence we will be left with our resources. In other words, the social contributions of the workers are going to stay in Catalonia ; but the pensions, let them pay Spain. We keep our taxes, but the FLA, keep paying me money. You know that Catalonia has been managed in a way that nobody gives us a hard on the market, we have to depend on the FLA; in fact, we are the autonomous community that most FLA need, that more FLA, Autonomous Liquidity Fund, we receive. Therefore, Mr. Mas, you are an intelligent person, you are a person with management experience, you are a prepared person, and you know that everything you are saying is a lie. And that's why I insist that the worst thing you're doing in these years is using the feeling of people, people who have trusted your president, people who have believed what you've told you, when you're the first one who knows it isn't. And the last of the arguments that you can't be president is because a president of the Generalitat can't be installed all day in victimism, Mr. Mas. You've been installed in victimism for five years. It is all the fault of the Spanish Government; here we have no competence, as if we were not one of the regions of Europe with the most self-government. You say that we cannot decide anything here and, in fact, we complain about energy policy, taxes, labour policy, budgets and the distribution of money between autonomous communities. I give you different thoughts, Mr. Mas. First of all, here we have many powers – many powers – and the first one that recognized it was you, when you were in opposition to the tripartite, because you said, and rightly so, to the tripartite: "How bad have the Generalitat of Catalonia managed, what a waste of eight years, of seven or eight years of tripartite government! But now it seems that the poor lords of the tripartite had no other way out, because if they really could not manage anything... Of course things can be managed from the Generalitat of Catalonia ; we have legislative capacity, we have capacity for self-government. And it is also that, with regard to the capacities that we do not have in this Parliament but that we do have as Catalans in the Congress of Deputies, you have used that capacity very well. You, in fact, have ruled Spain, Mr. Mas; you have been the key to Spain's government for many years: with the People's Party, with the Socialist Party; every time you need them, you, there. And you complain..., yesterday it said: « energetic dewavell. But if you have approved the energy regulations that we have in Spain, in the Congress of Deputies! You have voted in favour of the latest energy reform and, to put it mildly, you have had the defachability of voting in the Congress of Deputies in favour of an energy reform and here you have presented a remedy of unconstitutionality against that rule which you have voted in favour of in the Congress! It is clear that this double game was to be finished once and for all. You complain about the labour market, but if you have approved the Labour Reform of the People's Party! You complain about tax policy, but if you have supported a great deal of tax reforms and regulatory changes! Budgetaryly they complain about what has been received by Catalonia, but if so many general budgets of the state have gone forward with their votes, Mr Mas! When you criticize Spain so much, that you know that Spain is also his work, it is the work of Convergence i Unió, because Convergence has not only ruled in Catalonia : it has ruled throughout Spain ; therefore, also a part of responsibility for the good – eye – and for the bad that has been done in the Congress of Deputies you have it. And then they also talk about the politicization of justice. You rightly complain that the justice of this country is politicized. But I tell you, Mr. Mas: what have you or your party done, in thirty years, in the Congress of Deputies, to depoliticize justice? Have you proposed that judges be elected by judges, that prosecutors be elected by prosecutors, that this Parliament loses its power to elect members of the High Court of Justice? Have you ever raised this in the Congress of Deputies, or have you placed it as a sine qua non condition for passing a law, for approving a budget? Obviously not. You can't be part of the system and complain about the system when you don't touch it. The Constitutional Court, which... that you complain so much about the Constitutional Court, what happens, that it does not have enough members appointed by you? Because there are judges of the Constitutional Court elected to the finger by Convergence and Union. What's the matter, because they don't have a majority, they don't like it anymore? If they were all yours, it would be a fantastic court. Well, then, why don't we all make sure that the Constitutional Court is not elected by political parties? Why don't we all make judges elected by judges? It is clear that there is politicization of justice, Mr.Mas, but it is that you have been part of this system and have never – never – put in place measures to stop that being so. Therefore, Mr Mas, you have been in politics for thirty years, you have been successful too, especially in the first years, but as you have been in politics for thirty years we know you, and therefore when you talk about calling for insurrection and disobedience, you do not hang Mr Mas; when you talk about defending the poor and defending the public nature of services, I am sorry, Mr Mas, but it does not hang; when you talk about fighting corruption, I am sorry, Mr Mas, but it does not hang, and when you talk about defending all Catalans and that you have social majority support, I am sorry, Mr Mas, but it does not hang. And we need a president – or president – of the Generality, we need a president who does politics, because you, Mr. But, unfortunately, have not done politics for many years. Because doing politics is defending the legitimate interests of Catalans, here and ahead of the Government of Spain. But right now, and five years ago, there is no one who defends the interests of Catalans, because you have given up doing politics to be installed in the propaganda. You haven't tried to improve Catalonia's conditions for a long time. I believe that a President of the Generality has to defend a better system of financing of the autonomous communities – and so much so, that he has to do – and he has to defend that the Mediterranean Corridor is urged, that Rodalies is urged, that it is a service that really affects many citizens and that sometimes, frankly, it is shameful. I believe that a President of the Generality has to be able to dialogue between the Chambers, between the Parliament, between Catalonia, to hold consensus, to pull forward reforms of Catalonia. A president of the Generality has to keep his hands free and clean of corruption. A President of the Generality must be in a position to fight corruption, to recognize that it exists, to begin with, and then to fight corruption. We need a president or president of the Generality who has been given clearance. We carry many years in political instability and legal insecurity, and you know perfectly well that this is not good for the economy, you know perfectly well that having three autonomous elections in five years is not a good situation, a good scener for the economy of Catalonia. We need a president of the Generality who takes on reforms between Catalonia – between Catalonia – and who participates in the reforms of the Espanya Junta. We need a president or president of the Generality who I call political consensus – who I call political consensus – who sits at the political center and can talk, can talk with people who are in the extremes. And we need a president of the generality who doesn't make anyone out, who talks to everyone, who thinks we're all Catalans. And I also want to make a cry to many people of Catalanism; to many people who now think that what is produced in Catalonia is a fraud, that this is a social, economic and political problem..., for which we need Catalonia ; to all those people who, as they think, come from coming..., know that democratic law and justice must be respected in order to be a dynamic people, to be a people of the future, to be an economy between a country of the European Union. Because it's not all about saving Mr. Mas's political career – it's not all about saving Mr. Mas' political career. And right now there are very clean people to the Lord But, very clean, who have even stayed on this adventure, on this adventure of independence, but now they know that it doesn't bring us anywhere. And with these people we also have to count. We have the commitment, like opposition leaders, to form a political alternative to Catalonia, because we can do so. And the only red line will be to respect democracy and democratic legality. From here, dialogue, consensus. I am convinced that the 135 Members who are here in Parliament can agree with a great many things. Obviously, if some want to declare independence, and if some want to stand above democratic law and justice, the Parliament will split in two, which is the reflection of Catalan society. But if we're talking about economics, if we're talking about autonomies, if we're talking about peppers, infrastructure, sanitation, education, sure – sure – that we can take many measures. You want to go to history, Mr. More. But not always going to history is just to have done it right. I think there are very black pages of history that have protagonists. I believe that you, Mr. But, with all due respect, must not leave a political alternative, because we need a new political stage in Catalonia, and the person who has brought us here cannot be the person who makes us out of this situation and who gives us a political alternative. Thank you very much, Madam President, Mr President... Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.3.0	To answer, the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.4.0	Well, good morning. Madam President, Madam Vice-President of the Government, Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament, Mrs Arrimadas, I have already announced in my first speech as a reply to the groups that I will answer individually to each group, but for a single time. Therefore, I will not have the last word, you will have it on each turn, as is foreseen in the Rules. And, therefore, in this intervention, I will try to get into the most detail of the things that you have ever given in this investment debate. You said I shouldn't opt for the presidency of the Generality. It's about my long political career; that's true, I've been in politics for many years. Certainly, many times in opposition, in the municipal sphere and also in this Parliament of Catalonia. I've been running for five elections since 2003 and I haven't been president of the Generality in five years. Yes, I've done a lot of work, I've had to do a lot of work. It was easier for others to get there. Not to me, it cost me a lot, I can assure you. And I don't mind, because, normally, getting to the presidency of a country like Catalonia is not a four-day thing. It's a long, long job, bean, it's gonna be a lot of hours. Surely not so many hours can be spent... when you're relatively young, I've also been through this youthful time you've had. And he's got to lean a lot. I can tell you, therefore, that, by experience, I am sure that you will have to work a lot, and spend a lot of disgust and fear, before you arrive at the presidency of a country like Catalonia. I'm not completely convinced. Now, beyond that, I did want to make some considerations about some of the things that you said..., because of the reason that you think I don't have to opt for the presidency of the Generality, while, I insist, I arrived at the end of 2010 and I haven't been in this high-ranking position for five years. It is true that in a relatively short time to be there, as the president, I felt a thousand times that I had to fold. Curious. I guess it's got to be getting us a lot of people, I guess. Between you, they'd rather have someone else here. I totally get it. With regard to their motius, I respect them. But understand that it is not only a matter of respecting our own positions, but above all of what it is a matter of knowing where the country's electoral weights are, which means political and sociological weights. You say to me: "To you lack credibility, because it turns out that it started with sixty-two Members, then passed to fifty-two now, but barred with many other people. I want to memorise you, Mrs. Top, about things that are very elementary and that I think you know even though you don't verbalize them. First, we actually had sixty-two Members in 2010. And now, too. 2010 was Convergence and Union, and now it's another coalition. You know someone that in these past five years, with a brutal crisis, with tremendous social consequences, with so much disparate until relatively little time ago, with an index of poverty on the rise, as you said with suspicions of irregularities..., some suspects, others manifested, and these are the real ones, the others can be invented, but there is no real one..., with all this it turns out that we have the same deputies that when we get started. Do you think this is a big frac? Now, it's true, listen to me, there's been a change of alliances, because there's been a lot of things going on in the country. Look at other games in this same room. Are they exactly the same game they were five years ago? You haven't had any drops, have you? Have they not made other coalitions, others? What is forbidden, in democracy, to change and evolve according to the evolution of time? The modern Vég pac, Mrs. Arrimadas, if I may comment; the modern Vég pac, right? [[The timer laughs.]] But, go on, anyway, it's already going to be experimenting, that all this, the evolution this, indeed it's natural, because the country has evolved. And if the country evolves, and then I'll make a comment on the subject of laws, escorts, or we evolve with the country or then we are disqualified and not credible. If, despite the great change that the country has made, we have not changed people, then we would not have credibility, because I would like to say that we are insensitive to what the country has marked as a change of depth, in which there are people who can not believe, and you, for example, do not believe, and have all the right of the world not to believe there and to fight it. But if you have the right not to believe there, in this change that the country has made, and to fight it, you must hear that there are other people, like us, that we do have the right to believe there. What's wrong? And if we think we have to make decisions to try to be at the height of the circumstances of this change of country that has occurred. Or didn't it happen, this change of country? Do we have the same sociological and political structure now that five years ago? Five years ago, Mrs Arrimadas, would there be an independent majority, an absolute independenceist majority, in this Parliament? You assign me changes in my political position. He says the issue of independence was critical of us, etc. I want to remind him of two things. The first, which we have always defined as a party, I now speak of a strictly nationalist party, which I always intended was the highest possible level of self-government. As much as possible and without limits – and without limits. Now, you also understand another thing: when some Catalan parties – and we haven't been the only one, for sure, because speaking of history, I could explain to you many other things that have happened in this country in this sense by other political formations – when the Catalan parties in general, carried practically of..., no exception, they have made bets to get involved in Spanish politics, how can it be that everyone has not gone wrong? How could we all not have fallen apart? You're not a fan of that question, are you? That is to say, eighty years ago, that we involve ourselves, when there was a bit of democracy, in Spanish politics. Eighty years, from the Republic to now. In 2010, Mrs. Arrimadas, in May 2010, you did not have to remember it – you did not have to remember what I will say now, surely, but perhaps yes – there was a very sensitive and very important vote at the Congress of Deputies. We, at that time, were in opposition here. There was, as you remembered, such a tripartite. The president was President Montilla. The Socialists ruled Spain. And there was a vote where the rescue of Spain was decided. On the weekend, the Minister of Economic Affairs had to go to Brussels, to a meeting of economic ministers. And from that vote, whether it's Spain's rescue or not. You know who helped at the time, being in opposition, why wasn't Spain rescued? Ours. Obviously, we're in the mood for criticism. Do you know on what condition that vote was put in, Mrs. Arrimadas? That vote was based on the conditions that were being raised from sixty-five to sixty-seven years of retirement and, more importantly, on the reduction of public tickets for all public employees throughout the Spanish State, including those in Catalonia. In those conditions, it was produced, this vote. What would any opposition group have done? Vote against. He's the one playing, isn't he? , vote against, when are you in opposition? What are we going to do, those of us who have so little credibility? We helped save the rescue of the Spanish state joint. Do you know what happened a_me later, Mrs. Arrimadas, from this? Do you know what happened one month after this great service, that it was for all of Spain, when other very patriotic groups that always went with the Spanish flag looking for each other, as we saw yesterday in this very Parliament, voted against it because they cared about the rescue of Spain, whether it was produced or not? Do you know what happened a_me later? That another organ of the State, named the Constitutional Court, with a voodoo type sense, because that was to be ashamed before the whole world, the performance of that Constitutional Court, and therefore not taken so much..., that it was now delegitimized to the effects of much of the Catalan society, certainly much of the Catalan moderate society, completely delegitimized, after that voodoo that they organized... So do you know what happened? That they carried a substantial part of the Statute that had previously been voted for in reference to the people of Catalonia. I don't know. Therefore, Mrs. Arrimadas, I don't know whether we have credibility or not, but that we played it to help Spain I can assure you, and that we played it too and we would follow it to pull Catalonia forward, too. We'll do that too. And we have all the right of the world. Among other things, because we've just run a few elections with a new formula, actually, that's almost 40_percent of the votes. And now I will remind you of one thing, since you are the head of the opposition: say 'you have a parliament where the difference between the most voted and the second is the difference in the Parliament of Catalonia. Here we have sixty-two deputies, the ones who want to win the elections, and you have twenty-five. Two times and half less – two times and half less. Say 'un_un-parliament' when you go through this. Therefore, listen'm, Mrs. Arrimadas: a little respect, please, to the election result, that there were 1,620,000 people who voted in favour – almost 1,630,000 – of this list. And that's what gives us credibility to run a candidate for the presidency of the Generality. And if you don't present it with a list that's almost 40 percent of the votes and that's two times and that's more than the second list, that's yours, that will then submit the candidacy to the presidency of the Generality? Of course, they correspond to us. And you, let me tell you, you'd have to deal with a little more respect. And not for me, not for the person, but for what that means. And remember, as I said to you yesterday, that never in some elections to the Catalan Parliament had a single list concentrated so many votes in absolute value. Never since the year 1980. A little respect, therefore. International projection, which you also say remains my credibility to introduce me. Forgive me for saying something to you, Mrs. Arrimadas: had you heard so much about Catalonia in the world as it is now? I mean, we don't have an international projection, look where, and it turns out that all the international communication media remember us. And you will say to me, "No, of course, but it's easy for this to happen, because you organize any number and they put attention to you. But, look, no, in our case it's not because we're organizing any number; it's because we're four years old with a million people on the street in an absolutely civilized way as it doesn't happen around the world. That's why they put the focus here, because they've never seen it; they've never seen it anywhere. And they say, "Honey, what's going on in that mediterranean raccoon? What happens that 1 million people, without throwing a paper on the ground, are manifest every year? For 1_million_i_mig every year, of these people who come out on the street; that they do not have to go out forced because there is a species of shaman in the Palau of the Generalitat that is dedicated, therefore, to do not know how many things and I do not know how many stories to take the people out on the street. These people who, besides, don't have proper criteria – hi, Mrs. Arrimadas? – that they don't have proper criteria, that they believe the first thing they said, and, obviously, the President of the Generality encourages them to go out on the street, manipulates them, usually takes them one by one on the street – there will be a few hands and arms missing to be able to do it – and it turns out that here there is a species of devilish equation that leads to this. But, look where the world's people are interested in this. And you say to me: "The rulers are different. Obviously, because the rulers represent states. And you know what happens, you know what states do? They help each other. But they mean administrative structures, and administrative and political structures help each other. But, in turn, the cry for attention is not the administrative structures, the cry for attention is the great calm, peaceful and civic mobilization of a mountain of people, on an ongoing basis, claiming freedom. That's what I'm calling attention to. And that's what's going on in Catalonia. You can close the eyes before this evidence; in fact, you do it: they lock the eyes, it seems that the interests do not, it seems that this does not exist or that there is a manipulation in the hands of a manipulator. But this goes from another story, Mrs. Arrimadas, to a whole other story. You're telling me that, besides, I wouldn't have to introduce myself because I'm a bad manager. I don't know exactly what you mean, this being a bad manager, but, well, you said things that I would ask you to simply study them deeper and see that they are very elementary things, right? , which you say as if they were great, great, great theories, but in the background they are part of a theory that is very elementary and that goes of itself, eh? For example, you say: "It is that you have been increasing your debt. Mrs. Arrimadas, while you're in trouble, you'll increase your debt. And that, you don't have to put it in any other way, because it works that way: you make it difficult, so you have to cover it somehow. You may be disabled and you don't push the debt, but then I wouldn't pay anyone. And, therefore, you make it difficult, you mean that you enter less than you spend, and that difference someone has to finance. How does this work? Credited, actually. Therefore, while you tell us that there is no alternative but to make it difficult, and then you tell us that we have to spend more socially – and therefore we have to make it more difficult, according to you – so then we have to have new debt. The important thing, Mrs. Arrimadas – I am also saying it in the face of future debates that we can hold in this chamber – is to see if this evolution of the debt, according to the creation of wealth in the country, went up or down. Because if a country grows very economically it can allow its debt to rise in absolute terms, and certainly in relative terms not to rise so much. That's how it works, more or less, all the way. And so, I don't know if this is being a bad manager. You said to me: "You are hard on the weak. So, you're wrong, Mrs. Arrimadas, allow me to tell you the whole roundabout now. He's wrong about everything. Because if we were tough on the weak, what we would have done was strictly complete the deficit targets that we have imposed on us from Madrid, without negotiation, and all the deficit targets that we have imposed on us from Madrid have been – all – incomplete by the Government of the Generality. And you know why? Because we have social sensitivities. And do you know how social sensitivity is shown? Having as a percentage the highest public health assumption we had ever had in Catalonia: 40_per_cent, Mrs. Arrimadas, a presumption of salvation; we had never come so far. Do you know how social sensitivity is demonstrated? I've got food bags in the hundred, more than fifteen thousand – if I don't recall it badly – that we've never had in Catalonia. Do you know how social sensitivity is demonstrated, Mrs. Arrimadas? Placing more money for disabled workers working in special work centres when Madrid makes promises that it will not fulfill. Do you know how social sensitivity is demonstrated, Mrs. Arrimadas? Placing an 83_percent of the public contribution of the Law of Dependency, made in Madrid at the time, when the State had forced itself to put down fifty cents of every public euro and now put in so many cents. And you don't report it anymore. Curious, curious. You don't report this. But that's social sensitivities. These are things that have social sensitivities. And social sensitivity is to reach 71,000 families, as we get there this year 2015, 71,000 families, to help them with their housing problems, whether they're denominations or loggers who can't afford the reallocations. That's social sensitivity. If you say to me, "You have not reached all the way. You're right. Now, when I put in the formula to get to everything – which is precisely what we are doing – then you say to me: « Victimism. No, Mrs. Arrimadas, victimism is not complaining, victimism is complaining and not doing anything, that is making victimism. The victimist, the plumber, is the one who's been complaining all day and does nothing. And here, to complain, we complain, obviously, because we have the obligation to complain before all these things that I have said and many more that I could comment on. But we don't do anything about it; we do a long-range project for many people and for many generations... well, I correct it, for everyone and for many generations, because this type of problem we have now doesn't have in the future in a country that may not have them, that is Catalonia. Catalonia, these problems you described, you might not have them. And yesterday I said, and I'm going back to saying it again today: if we have any content or the economic concert that we have the Basques and the Navarrasos or were a similar state – that's what I said yesterday – if we have that, that's to say that we don't have a fiscal deficit, that's to say that we shouldn't go to ask each and every one of them for the finance system, that's to say that we shouldn't just go to ask for public infrastructure in the whole of Spain, that they don't have anything to do with our economic pesso, or just with our people, if we don't do all this, we won't have four people in this country. Because we have a welfare state that is still lower today than the most advanced countries in the European Union. And I told him yesterday and I'm going to say it again, we can't just stand the pensions we have at this time for the big people, we can improve them, under these conditions. And you know it perfectly well, what happens is that they don't care to recognize it. They don't care to recognize it, Mrs. Arrimadas. Therefore, nothing to "hard with the weak. And now you allow me to correct it in another thing, if you allow me to: "Fair with the hard ones? You think we're weak with the hard ones? Did I tell you the truth? You're telling me? But if we've faced all the great powers, all of them, there's not one left. Do you want me to list them? Central government with absolute majority, completely confronted; Constitutional Court – which has great power –, confronted; Spanish Parliament, as it acts with its absolute majority, confronted; a good part of IBEX 35, which must have power according to you, right? , these are excited about what we are doing; all the great journalistic powers of this Spanish State, are delighted, look at what they explain every day; in Madrid, everyone, there is not a single exception, and, in Catalonia, many. Don't tell me we've dedicated ourselves to being weak with the hard ones. We have faced ourselves, Mrs. Arrimadas, with everyone, and not with mouth, not with words, not with speeches, that this is very easy, but at the time of decisions, that is when it is more difficult. And, obviously, I don't want anyone acting the way they're supposed to; every one I'm acting the way I want to. But we've done this. You were also talking to me about corruption. Have you seen any president of the government who has appeared as often as I have to give explanations? Any time? Miri, you, others. You give support to some governments that have problems of suspected corruption, important governments, and give support to you. Do you make them compare every two by three? That speech I made here today, the fan exactly the same there or there turns out they don't have to do it so much because they give them support there because they're already interested in them for any reason? Madame Arrimadas, we follow a little consequence. And I'll tell you one thing: the more I support more governments, the more it will cost them to do according to five speeches. Because of suspicions of irregularities, there's a lot of places. And one thing is the suspects and another thing is just real cases. And I follow him saying, as I said in this very Parliament, and I say again, that on the subject of public work, Mrs. Arrimadas, if you listen to me, on the subject of public work there is – there is – no irregularities of the type they are saying. I can't assure you that at some point some small administrative irregularity can't be; I don't know, it's not in my grasp to know it. But I'm telling you so clearly. In the same way that it is obvious, there can be no denying, that there are other cases of irregularities, that they are confessed, that they are not questionable, that they are not suspected, that they are reality, that we have not spoken many times in this Parliament and that they are responsible for those who are not responsible or responsible. And, therefore, each person must assume his or her responsibilities, not those of the others. And I guess that's worth a little bit, so, in general. And allow me to make a statement, because this is a speech that repeated it; I explained it to you, but you repeated it. Then he says to me: "But you once said that if Catalonia is an independent state it will no longer be subject to Spanish courts. Mrs. Arrimadas, I will be subject to all the courts that I want to judge, but I speak to her, I spoke to her about an evidence: if you end up having an independent state, I mean you have a proper justice of that state. Before what justice shall we answer, if one day Catalonia is an independent state? So, from Catalan justice, right? Of the ordinary courts of Catalan justice. While this does not come, obviously, I answer in front of all the other courts, and in this case, of the Spanish State. See if I can answer it as long as the other day I spent more than an hour declaring myself before a court of justice that forms part of the Spanish legal order. Look if I'm disciplined. Clearly, man, and I'm a consequence. And I assure you one thing– you weren't there because you didn't touch him– but I was absolutely a collaborator, with my statement before justice, although I was accused of putting the ballot boxes, Mrs. Arrimadas. And here we go to another topic that you said, right? You said – and I know it's hard for me to say it, because, more than that, I think it's not only unreal, but, more than that, it's unfair, and, as far as you're concerned, I think it'll come to the conclusion that I'm going to explain it to you now – you say: "You've embarked on this whole project to cover up your problems with justice. Mrs. Arrimadas, it's exactly the opposite: as a result of this project, we have more problems with the prosecution and justice than we would have in other circumstances. Madame Arrimadas, this works like this, believe me. So, it's the other way around: precisely because we've played a lot, we have a lot of problems everywhere. I speak to them for personal experience. I know how the State works when it needs to destroy it; I know it perfectly. I know how determined police units work; I know perfectly well. I know how some confidants work, I know how they're meant to pay confidants, after they've been lied to; I know perfectly well. And I know how, then, from the political power, it's done, and I know how it's done in the middle of the electoral campaign; they won't have to explain anything to me. Therefore, no, Mrs. Arrimadas, no; it is exactly the opposite: for having put ourselves on this project and to put our face on it and to make decisions is for which we have some problems, in a very intensified way, that probably in other conditions we would not have or would have in a much smaller way. You also accuse me of dividing Catalonia. I think it's a... I think it's a statement, if I may, simplistic. It's simple for a reason, because fixed's, let's go to the result of the elections: if it turns out that there are 48_percent of people going to vote with a common turnout that voted for independence and 39_percent that explicitly voted against, and then about 10_percent, that you don't know if they're on one side or on another, because they themselves don't want to be counted instead – they said explicitly – so what do we know for sure, 48_percent for, 39_percent against, what does it mean that the country is divided? What do you mean? That if 39_per_cent is the one that gets the reason, 48_per_cent has to give up on its project, and then it won't be divided anymore? Is that what you're pretending to be? I never expected that if there was a 48, 49, 50 percent people in favor of independence in this country, the others would think the same. I have said many times – you have heard me say many times – here and out of here: "I deserve the same respect and tea the same value a vote in favor of independence as a vote against – exactly the same. Now, those who are in favor of independence also have value, huh? , Mrs. Rimadas. That is to say, to end the divisions of this country, so traumatic, according to you, the thing to do is: all the people who are in favor of independence, resign there. And then there will be no division. Oh, my gosh, that's fantastic. I think it's a fabulous democratic spirit. What a democrat! From these people who are present as modern, from the point of view of some values. The way I don't divide the country is for those who don't like me to do what I like. Spectacular. Why don't we do it another way, Mrs. Arrimadas? Because we do not see that there is a problem, that is, that it is so legitimate for those who want independence as for those who do not want it, so legitimate, but the problem is there. And we resolve it as normal, democratic societies, those that I'm sure you want to build, and modern ones. And what does a normal, democratic and modern society mean? A society where, when there's a problem in society, which is there, or a big challenge, it's the polls. This is the company we're going to want to build. They're putting the ballot boxes in. And, like you have a legal order that doesn't allow you directly or that complicates you, the one that modern societies make, and we have examples of it in the same Europe, it's to the table, to analyze the problem that there is, or the repte, and to adapt the legal mark – that all legal marks can fit, by definition – to solve that problem or that democratic repte. And what did the Spanish State do? You criticize us, but don't criticize them. What has the Spanish State done? Yesterday I told them graphically: they didn't take off the phone, they didn't open the email, they didn't want to talk about it. Pretty democratic of that, huh? Don't even talk to him. Oh, my God! Is that what you're defending? I want to think I don't. I want to think that a political formation like Ciutadans needs to see it in a different way, that. That the PP sees that way doesn't surprise me, though, do you? You have to see it differently, that. And it turns out you're right. You said to me: "You are dividing Catalonia. It's not true. What we do is channel a popular process that exists, not manipulated, by the will of adult people and mature people... – There is enough to treat people as if they were sheep and as if they were goods that are allowed to water any adventure–, adult people, mature people who came to the same conclusion that we have arrived many, many of whom we fought, precisely, because Spain was a different state from what it is, and why Catalonia was able to accommodate itself well. And they have come to the conclusion that, under current circumstances, Catalonia will not get along well with the Spanish State. And we have to defend this and, more importantly, now with a 48-per-cent vote in the polls, which is not a small thing. So, no, split Catalonia, no. I remember, Mrs. Arrimadas – I don't want to talk about the past, but I remember, since you've got me, this to divide – that you were born a few years ago to divide the educational community. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah. You were born for this – you were born for this. You were born at a certain time – and some of us remember it very well, because we already have a little experience –, you were born to load the linguistic immersion system in Catalonia, although you had an 80 or 90 per cent acceptance, as later proved; but obviously, we had an 80 or 90 per cent acceptance, you did import them a little, but you wanted to divide that educational community. They didn't get away, fortunately, but in their birthrights there is this and they know it very well. So, Mrs. Arrimadas, don't talk to me about division, and, let me tell you, don't give me such examples... – I'm telling you with all the cordiality, huh? – as young as the mayor's or mayor's. Now it will turn out that there is a mayor or a mayor and says that "he does not want to pay certain taxes, that he wants to stay I don't know what contributions and the people on the side is... Mrs. Arrimadas, it doesn't go from this – it doesn't go from this, it doesn't go from this – and it doesn't simplify it because..., fix it, because you can analyze these types of things, things have to happen. Have you seen any of the other territories in the conjunct of the Spanish State that do what Catalonia is doing at this time? They could do it if they wanted to, couldn't they? But have you seen him? No, no, And what did you say about the mayor or mayor, did you see? Have you seen a sincere people, in Catalonia, rebelling before the Generality at a time determined to want to leave Catalonia? Have you seen this? I have seen some people of Cerdanya, of the French Cerdanya, who wanted to incorporate Catalonia. That's what I've seen, but I haven't seen it yet, at least, go, I haven't seen it yet, have I? Then you say: "Well, listen to me... I don't give you examples of these characteristics because they can't handle the slightest analysis, Mrs. Arrimadas. I say again: "Let us go to the depth of things. The depth of things where is it at this moment? The depth of things is that in Catalonia there has been, through the ballot boxes, 2_million people, almost, who openly plant the constitution of a state in Catalonia, and that means, almost, 50_percent of the votes. This is the reality, and this does not happen any more, nor does it move more from Europe with this intensity – nor does it move more from Europe. They do the favor of landing at once, of hearing that this is so, that it is a repte, with capitals, and that we must try, among all, to throw it forward. The last thing you were thinking... you said to us that we put self-government in danger. No, Mrs. Arrimadas, self-government is already in danger – it is already in danger – because it is in decline. Self-government, instead of growing, is shrinking, because the People's Party with its absolute majority has already dealt with this. But before the Constitutional Court was occupied without the People's Party being held in the Government. And a little before Mr. Aznar had taken care of himself, too, with an absolute majority at the beginning of the two-thousand years. It's been years since the self-government's come back. And, therefore, the problem we've been in for years now is getting reddened. And if some haven't acted as they have now we won't be where we are. Therefore, be careful to see where the so-called accuser is. Attention, pay attention to this. And you told us that according to what decisions we take, we will put at risk, at last, the fact of leaving the European Union. That's not true, Mrs. Arrimadas, and I'll explain to him in a minute why. Do you know why Catalonia cannot leave the European Union, among other reasons? Why... or the euro, between other reasons? Because there is one thing that is said to be public debt. Do you know whose hands the public debt of the Spanish State is, including that of Catalonia? In the hands of a lot of people all over the world – this is what the markets are called – who are the owners of this public debt. You believe that all these markets – that when they want to overthrow a country they can get it to collapse, and it has proved – will allow Catalonia to come out of the European Union and the euro when this would bring all of Spain to bankruptcy, and after Spain the euro and the European Union? Do you think that's possible? If no one believes all this! [[Widow's remorse.]] It forms part of the threats of every day...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.5.0	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.6.0	...and help between states, obviously, forms part of this: help between states. The states, before they don't get a new one, help each other because they don't get a new one, they help each other, they try to help each other, already. Remember what happened with Slovenia – with Slovenia – just before... – and with Lithuania and Latvia – just before proclaiming their independence, just before, they told them to take all the evils of the world, all on top. And now they are normal countries of the European Union, some of the euro, they work well, they have balanced societies, they get better, they live better, they live more free, they have fairer societies and they have better decision-making capacity, they are interconnected, they are interdependent, between the European Union, they have shared sovereignties, exactly what Catalonia wants – exactly what Catalonia wants. So, no, we don't believe each other – we don't believe each other – that's just part of the threats. And one point: you were talking to me about the unilateral declaration of independence. Have you seen that in the agreement signed between Juntes for the Yes and the CUP is talking about unilateral declaration of independence? At least read what's approved in this Parliament, please! Yesterday I said: "There is no such concept. And why isn't it there? It's not because it's impossible, because others have already gotten there, because we know how to read the results: we know that the result of September 27 gives us strength to start this process and to carry it forward a lot, we know that it doesn't allow us to make a unilateral declaration of independence and that we can't do it in the current circumstances, and we know another very important thing, which I'm going to comment on, that all this process in which we are inserted ends with a reference to where people can say their last word, which is the reference in which they will be approved at some point, if all goes well, the future Catalan constitution, in which, certainly, Mrs Arrimadas, we invite them to be there – we invite them to be there. And I think it would be good if they were there, and they have all the right to be there, because they're in this Parliament and they represent a part of what the Catalan people are. The last observation you wanted to make... you were talking to me about "respecting the law and respecting democracy. Looks like you gave me this, don't you? , Mrs. Arrimadas, « respect democracy and « respect the law? So, miri, it can't dissociate one thing from the other. I assure you, I have no interest in failing to fulfill the laws, not one – head or one. And besides, I haven't done it, I don't have any interest. Now, I also want to say one thing: when the pes de la démocratie, which means the pes de la pes de la pes de la pes de la pes, is manifested permanently in a certain sense and then some use the law to neither sue the table, nor listen, nor negotiate, nor agree re, at that time those laws become unjust laws. And unjust laws must be able to fight because they must be able to change. If the unjust laws had never changed, Mrs. Arrimadas, you would not have been able to vote, because she is a woman. And if the unjust laws could never be changed by force and pressure from the people's movements on the street, even though it was peaceful, a black person would not be president of the United States of America. Obviously, when there are great movements, democratic, civic, transversal, plural, intergenerational, when these great movements are persistently on the road claiming their rights, the rulers, all – all, I mean all – have the obligation to listen, as I have done, humbly, have the obligation to sue to the table, have the obligation to find the best way and have the obligation to reach agreements to try to give out in that popular peaceful claim. And so, Mrs. Arrimadas, she changed the history of humanity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.7.0	The word has the illustrious lady Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mas, I will try to answer all the questions you have asked me. Let's start with the first one, for this one..., I have played a comment even paternalistic, worrying about my future and worrying about why many sticks are waiting for me in life... I hope many sticks are waiting for me in life; that means I'm going to live a lot and I'm going to do very interesting things. I don't expect any less. I am aware of the position where I am and of the responsibility I have. But I tell you one thing, Mr Mas: things have changed, and it does not take thirty years in politics in the current policy to be able to assume responsibilities. In fact, I say to you: I, at thirty-four years old, think I have more work experience in the private company than you, who have quite more. If I'm not mistaken, so I've been able to consult on the Internet, that's right. [[Widow's remorse.]] And there are many citizens on foot, right now, who don't want politicians who have been doing politics for so many years who have forgotten what a private company is, what it is to charge a payroll, what it is to be afraid that they can kick you out... I think it takes a lot of people in politics who have experience in everyday life, in real life, and who can contribute their knowledge, their experiences in politics. You, who spoke so much about modernity, should know that the new policy is not only one in which it takes thirty years to make policy in order to opt to be president or president of the Generalitat. Besides, I'm telling you one thing: you're doing such strange things lately, such irresponsible things, such foolish things, that it's amazing that you've been in politics for 30 years. Unbelievable! That you think about jumping over the law, that you think about choosing what your courts are... Incredible, improper of a person who has been in politics for no more than thirty years, with the responsibilities you have assumed. And I'm telling you one thing: you, who were talking about that you've had a lot of electoral success and that, well, the results don't have to be read either in this key so catastrophic that I've done... Look, I'm telling you one thing: you're going to go into history as the president who's loaded up Convergence and Union. That party that for many years has been able to bring together a great social and political majority of Catalonia, that party that has ruled Catalonia, that party that has been decisive in the whole of Spain, you have charged it. Fixed if divided, the debate you have put on the table, which has broken even the Federation of Convergence and Union, which seemed indestructible, which seemed iron. Well, check if you've loaded it. Even, as we said yesterday, some of your advisers disagree with what you are proposing, Mr. Mas. Of course it divides, because it poses challenges to democracy, jump over the laws, get out of Spain and the European Union, does not generate consensus, and you have verified it in first person. You said: "Is it forbidden to stand for election, a coalition, with other parties? No, of course not. What is also not forbidden is to criticize the result that you draw. You are cheating on the lonely, you now have the same deputies – the same ones – that you had alone in 2010. They needed to absorb the Republican Left, the pro-independence entities of civil society, to get to the deputies you had in 2010. He didn't do so well, did he? As you say. Then he talks about this being a social change. What you are saying is that you have only heard the voice of the people and that you have had to fulfill the mandate of the people, that you have not promoted anything. So, I ask you a question, Mr. Mas: what are we left with, this is something of the people and you are indispensible, or what I was saying yesterday, that without you this derails it? What are we left with: is it the people or are you? Because if we focus on your own statements, on statements by members of your list, you are fundamental to the process. What are we left with, Mr. Mas: is it a matter for the people or without you this derails? It's absolutely contradictory. And, look, you were referring to Catalan parties and Catalans and to our contribution to the whole of Spain..., no doubt: Catalans have contributed to the whole of Spain and have participated in the great reforms as part of Spain that we have been, as always. And I tell you a reference from our own party: we are proud to be a party that was born in Catalonia, to have a Catalan president. And I say more: we are very close – very close – to having a president of Spain who is Catalan, much closer than an independent Catalonia outside Spain and outside the European Union. Look at that. [[remorse of the voice]] , fixed [[applause]] if we're close to the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.9.0	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.10.0	You talk about the contributions you have made Convergence i Union in the Congress of Deputies [[the remorse of the voice persists]] ... Madam President, if you'll allow me to speak and I can hear the sound of my voice, I thank you. [[Pause.]] You speak, Mr. Mas, of the contribution that Convergence and Union has made to the Congress of Deputies. The truth is that it has greatly simplified the reality, because it is fixed whether in thirty-five years you have made good and bad contributions, and has set just one example, an anecdote of the May 2010 vote. Look, it won't be me – it won't be me – saying that Convergence and Union has never done anything good. Here, in Congress... in Congress of Deputies, here in Parliament. It is that you have sent so much, you have made all the decisions, that some have done well. It is you who want to throw everything away, it is you who have abandoned the signy that for so many years have defended, it is you who have loaded your own party, Mr. Mas. In the Congress of Deputies you have done many things, and you have determined, as I said to you, general state budgets, sectoral reforms, organic laws. You have de facto ruled Spain. Therefore, they assume the responsibilities of good things, because there are also good things in this country, and of bad things. And then, with regard to the Constitutional Court, I still do not answer my question, Mr. Mas; it will be the third time that I have formulated it: what have you done in thirty-five years to depoliticize justice? – What have you done in thirty - five years to depoliticize justice? If they have done nothing! You have benefited, you have participated, you have shown your agreement with a politicized judicial system, and not the evil Spanish courts. The High Court of Justice, which is in Catalonia – which also, of course, is part of Spanish justice, such as this Parliament, is also an institution of the Spanish State –..., here there is also politicization of justice. Why don't you complain? Why have you not raised, with that sensitivity and responsibility that you have always had in the Congress of Deputies, why have you never raised key measures to depoliticize justice? He didn't answer me today, he didn't answer me the other day; I hope to have more luck on some other occasion. And then you made a reference to the outcome of the elections. Look, there is a competence of this Parliament that you have never wanted to exercise, ever, which is to make an electoral law. How do you feel about being the only autonomous community in Spain without electoral law? What can't we do? Yes, we can. That the evil Spanish state forces us to maintain an electoral law, an electoral regulation, that shows such an abysmal difference between votes and deputies? What are they forcing us to do? No, no, It is that you have never had the slightest intention of doing so, because it benefits you, and you know it. You, who talk so much about democracy, maintain and have wanted to maintain an electoral law that is clearly unfair, which makes this Parliament not reflect in a fair way the social reality in Catalonia. And it has been very clearly seen in these last elections, and you know it. So don't trap the solitaire and don't read the elections as if they had had majority support from the citizenry, because you haven't, because you have posed to the Catalan citizens that if you wanted independence you had to vote or to Junts for Yes or the CUP. And you, after the longest and most expensive campaign in history, have stayed at 47 and peak percent. High, high no doubt, but not a majority. So don't cheat on the loner. And then you talk about the international projection: "The world looks at us, the newspapers. There are a lot of accredited international media. Of course, but it's that, unfortunately, when there are internationally accredited means, it's not always because something good is happening in that territory. And I do not want to give examples of places in the world where there is a very important international media focus right now and it is not for something exactly good, it is not because its citizens are celebrating a democratic event. International projection is not always – media, I mean – good, and you know it. What you don't have is not a single international support from a political leader; you know that perfectly well. Therefore, of course there are international means, how is there not going to be international means, if we are in a country of the European Union and yesterday a declaration was adopted saying that democratic laws are not going to be enforced here, that they are not going to apply the courts of justice here? More means, there should have been, in the face of this barbarity. But that does not mean that they give us their support, the rest of the countries of the international community. And we're talking about management, Mr. Mas. I recognize one thing: you have managed, I insist, at a time of economic crisis. Governments that, like you, have managed in economic crisis have found themselves to have more social needs than ever before and less resources than ever before. But you, of this, did not want to talk, because you have given up doing politics. You were very critical of the tripartite with the increase in debt. You have made me a simplification of the debt that, truly... for thirty years of experience, seems to me to have made it quite simplified. Since there is deficit, there is debt; so of course. And then you don't have to hold governments accountable when they increase and triple or make their debt grow exponentially, because, total, as there is deficit, there has to be debt, as if there was no alternative! , as if there was no alternative to manage our budgets, prioritize our budgets in another way! So, I ask you, Mr. Mas: when you were leader of the opposition and you criticized the tripartite – who did it, and hard, and rightly, by the way – that they multiplied the debt, that you were cheating, you? Totally, if they were increasing, the poor, the debt because they had deficit, if it is so simple the reasoning that has wanted to sell us here today... Of course when you have deficit it generates debt; the problem is: can we manage in a way that we reduce the deficit, that we distribute our resources in a different way, that we prioritize better not, let's say, collapse the public coffers? Besides, if you wanted to do politics, in these five years we could talk about a lot of things. We could talk about what part of your Government's debt increase is due to a tripartite snowball effect. If you wanted to do politics, we could have done it. If you wanted to do politics, we could have talked about an unfair distribution of the deficit between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities, which has been, and I have heard Mr Mas-Colell and yourself many times, referring to you... But if that is what it is to do politics, and you have given up doing politics. If you had wanted to do politics here, we would have talked about how the Spanish Government drastically reduced money for employment policies and dependency. But you did not want to do politics, you wanted to do propaganda, because doing politics is, in addition to recognizing these things and fighting with the Spanish government, to assume your own mistakes. Today, again, you haven't done a single self-criticism, really. In five years have you not been wrong about anything? Do we not have the legislative capacity, self - government, to make better decisions? Look, there's a lot of data compared to the rest of the autonomous communities that have the same – or less – legislative and self-government capabilities that we have and have faced the crisis in a completely different way. Therefore, it is false that you had no other alternative, it is false that you had to cut in health and education while maintaining political chiringuitos, it is false that you had no other option to shoot in an increase of 90_per_cent the debt. It's absolutely false. But, of course, to talk about these things, to have parliamentary support on certain issues on which you were right, we have to do politics, and you have for many years renounced politics. And what is the magic solution? Independence. Do not worry you Catalans, that with independence we will have the highest pensions, we will have less unemployment... You have come to say that we would have fewer traffic accidents, you have made a campaign that said that "children will eat every day dessert gelat, that that is even bad from the nutritional point of view( rialles), because you have to eat yogurt and fruit. (Applause.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.11.0	Ladies and gentlemen, I call you to order. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.12.0	They're slogans – they're slogans – that really aren't sensible. You tell me that I don't have much political experience, and you have every reason in the world, I am a citizen who three years ago decided to embark on politics, but I don't think I can say that with independence children will eat ice cream for, for..., dessert every day, nor that we will have fewer traffic accidents, nor that we will have the highest pensions in Europe. You know there's a structural problem with the pension system... Madam President, please ask her to let me talk, because I don't even feel my voice. Madam Speaker of Parliament, Mrs Forcadell...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.13.0	I'm sorry, I don't feel... I think there's silence. Before, but now I think there's silence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.14.0	Right now; thank you. Yes, he's already provoked it indirectly, thank you. I don't think I can say these kinds of slogans, which generate expectations in people. When you talk about pensions... we have a very serious, structural problem in our pension system; not only in Catalonia, of course, but in Spain as a whole. And in Catalonia we have a problem, and it is that right now the contributions of Catalan workers do not cover the pensions of Catalan pensioners, and you know it, and it is a huge irresponsibility to tell people that leaving Spain and leaving the European Union we will have better pensions. In Catalonia we have a population older than the Spanish average, and in Catalonia we have pensions higher than the Spanish average. This means that, at a time of crisis, there is a gap, a difference between what is received, what is collected by social contributions and what has to be paid each month in pensions. Therefore, do not simplify reality. I wish it were so easy to solve the structural problem we have in pensions in this country, of course, also in Catalonia. And you were talking about being weak with the strong. I think you've been weak with the strong, Mr. Mas. With certain private companies, you have been very soft. You've sold assets that we had Catalans at an irritating price. You have sold, privatized some parts of public services that were profitable while you have let the public part of those services remain, therefore, which is not so profitable, which is not so interesting for private companies. You have renewed concessions to certain companies under absolutely beneficial conditions for these large companies. You, when you were talking about Ibex 35, man, don't come, really, Mr. Mas, don't hang up when you go anti-system and contrary to Ibex companies, if there's nothing more to see than the donations you've received in your foundation from very large construction companies, companies that have worked with the Administration, some of Ibex 35. I don't know, really, this position, this change that you want to make, is that it doesn't hang that you go right now from anti-business, from anti-large companies, from the defender of the rights of the poor, really, it doesn't hang. And when you were talking about dealing with the media, of course, you made this reference, and I think it is very correct, Mr Mas, "Spanish media, because we don't talk about the Catalan media better; we don't talk about the influence and budget of the public media in Catalonia: 356_million_de_euros the company of Mitjans Audiovisual de Catalunya and huge subsidies to the private media. Why? Why do they encourage the use of Catalan? Sure? Are you sure this is why you have recently given EUR 8 million to private media? I believe that to talk about media influence or impartiality better – better, Mr. Mas – than not to talk, not to talk about the media. Because you're right. Just as he is right when he says that justice is politicized, he is very right when he says that the media are not free one hundred per cent and that sometimes they receive political slogans to give the information. But that's a problem that we have here, that we have there and that we have to solve among all of us. But the solution is not to have media here that receive funding, that we all know for what is going on, and then I criticise that those there do not listen to me. Another of the issues you have discussed is corruption. Look, Mr. Mas, I did not say in my speech that you are the only ones who have judicial investigations. Unfortunately, because there is a lot of corruption in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. You, when you say: "No, Catalonia is different from the rest of Spain, so, look, we look at many things. In the problems of the citizens we are very similar to the rest of Spain. In fact, whenever there is an opinion poll, the problems that concern Catalans are the same as the problems that concern the rest of Spanish people, and corruption is second. Of course there is corruption in other autonomous communities, of course there has been. Unfortunately, it has been something generalized, I dare say. Not, of course, that affects all people in all parties, not that all public offices, or much less, have committed cases of corruption, that would be unfair, but there has been a lot of corruption. And you ask me: "And what are you doing to fight corruption where you are supporting other political parties? Well, look, the first thing is that we haven't come in to rule with any of those parties, first of all. The second thing is that we have demanded one thing that, even in this Parliament, is not fulfilled, in your government is not fulfilled, and it is that those accused of political corruption must resign. And not here... – I say as a lawyer, too – here we are not saying that imputation means guilt; no, but it is that resignation does not mean going to jail. The political responsibility of a person holding a public office must go one step further than that of any citizen. Therefore, when a person is accused – which does not mean that he or she is necessarily guilty – what he or she must do is move away from his or her public office and defend himself or herself before the courts in order to eliminate any shadow of suspicion about our public representatives. What else have we done in those places where we are supporting governance? Look, push committees of inquiry, push committees of inquiry that had not occurred in other autonomous parliaments, never, for a reason like what we have promoted and are doing. Other measures that we are pushing for, look, to eliminate the outbursts, which we proposed here many years ago and we are still waiting for your answer, Mr. Mas, the response of Convergence i Unified to eliminate the outbursts, because it makes no sense for politicians to have to go to a higher instance if we have a problem with justice: we have to go to defend ourselves in the first instance, like every neighbor's child. And that's what we've proposed. What do we propose, too? Eliminate pardons for political corruption. And I don't know whether you will agree or not, but Convergence i Union has received pardons from people convicted of political corruption. I believe that the time has come to take one more step and that this will not happen again, but not for you, but for any party. It is these qualitative democratic leaps that we have to make throughout Spain. And another measure? Well, look, we have often proposed a ban on donations to parties, which has recently been achieved, but something that will sound to you – which will sound to you – and it is a ban on donations to party foundations, because it has been shown to be a mechanism that some have used to finance their own political parties. Therefore, there is so much to be done – so much to be done – to fight against corruption that, really, when you say that here we have already done everything, that here there is no corruption linked to public procurement, really, I am surprised; I am surprised because I am convinced that you know that there is a lot of margin yet. And speaking of justice, you have once again insisted on an idea that is truly very significant: "Of course, it is appropriate to say justice itself. What are we in, Mr. Mas? Do you want a state close to you or what you want is your own justice? What does he want is his own justice? Because I believe that the politicians – the politicians – do not have to do, therefore, legal and political experiments to have a proper justice; what we have to do is try not to go before justice. And let's go, then, to defend our innocence. And you said: "It is not corruption that has generated the independence debate, but all the contrary, it is the independence debate that has caused us to continue, therefore, being investigated. I ask you a question: did Mr. Pujol make this statement that he had not had how many millions of euros outside because he was on the road to independence? Are you really telling me that you're investigating the Pujol family and the accusation...? Yes, Pujol, the Lord with whom you were two days ago and commented, the same day that you were making an escort to his foundation was you talking to Mr Pujol, man, you don't speak as if you were a person absolutely alien to his person; it's the political father of the President But, it's the President of Convergence. Do you really think that Mr. Pujol declared that he had millions of euros outside of Spain because the independence debate had emerged on the street? I don't think so. And you did a reflection, which I also shared: "Why is this all happening now? Why does this all come out now, of corruption, of convergence, of Pujol? The question is not why it's coming out now, it's: why it hasn't come out before. Why didn't he come out before? And I'd also like to know if there was any kind of agreement between the parties that have ruled or not, to make it exactly now when things have to come out that have been going on for 20 years. That's the problem; the problem is not that it comes out now, the problem is: why it hasn't come out before. Why have there been citizens of this country who have had shipments to Hisenda sealed, therefore, for two years? That's the problem, that's the doubt that the citizenry has. Not why he's coming out now, why he hasn't come out before. And then, another thing that I really think is indisputable. You say, "No, it's all coming out because the debate on the street of independence has generated the reaction. I say to him: the escorts and the arrests of the other day, of his own, of the foundation of his party, the arrest of his treasurer, you know? Of a complaint from a director of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia – ex-registress, why is it no longer, to Republican Esquerra of Catalonia, I don't know why, huh? I don't know why. Plus, he's investigating a Vendrell trial. Is that really what the state's locksmiths are? Is that really what the state's locksmiths are? A former Republican Esquerra registrar from Catalonia is part of the state's keyloggers? I don't think so – I don't think so. So you're not cheating on the lonely, Mr. Mas. And more so, speaking of the outcome of the elections – and you insist on the idea that you have won, so, the plebiscite that you have called – I refer to the statements made by Mr. Baños the other day: "We have lost the plebiscite. Mr. Baths said it, his partner said it, his travel companion said it. You wanted to win in votes and you didn't win. You can't cheat on the lonely. And more than that, a reflection that you do, too. He says: "We have not encouraged the debate. The debate was on the street, because this is happening can't be pushed from a government, this comes from the citizenry up. I give you a thought: are you denying me that governments do not have the capacity to push debates on the street? Are you denying me that governments can't push entrepreneurship, can't push innovative spirit, can't push tolerance? Of course, governments are pushing questions, if you have driven an identity debate. And he said: "There is a political problem. So much so that there is a political problem. You don't have to tell us. Those who seem to have not heard are the lords of the People's Party in the Government of Spain, who we have been saying for many years: "There is a problem here – and I do not mean 3%. There is also a political problem, rising, let's say, in the secessionist debate in Catalonia, and some think that only by going to the Constitutional Court, that only using Article 1 of the Spanish Constitution will the serious problem that we have here be solved. And that's not true. But don't put us in the same sack, because we know there's a political problem here. A problem conceived, not since the year 2010, of the ruling of the Statute, no, no, this comes for decades. That you have been able to say certain issues that generate conflict, you are fueling the debate that 'Spain robs us, 'if we had all the taxes and stayed with all our taxes we would live better, 'if we did not have to pay the pensions of the rest of the Spaniards here we would have very high pensions. I really did not want to take the sign out of discord again today, which Mr Puig will remember perfectly. But you, very recently, made a sign saying: "L'Espanya subsidized saw at the cost of productive Catalonia. Convergence and Union – signed‘Convergence and Union: "Subsidised Spain lives at the cost of productive Catalonia. It is very serious that the party of the government, the party of the lord who has thirty years of experience, the party of the seny make this kind of posters. It's very serious. This would not be allowed in other countries, that call to insolidity, that call to confrontation between citizens of the same country. And then, of course, the mantra of educational success. Mr. Mas, do you really continue to argue that the school system in Catalonia is a system of success, with a 25_per_cent of school failure? With a 25_per_cent of school failure, can you say that what we have in Catalonia is a system of success? That we cannot say that our education system, with the worst results of the OECD countries, and of course I speak of Catalonia as a whole in Spain because it is another shared problem, you cannot say that we have a system of success, Mr Mas. Do you know what the system of success we want for the children of Catalans is? Your system. The system you studied in. And you are a very prepared person and speak fluently French, English, Catalan and Spanish. That's what I want for the children of the Catalans. And that is not achieved with the system of success that we supposedly have in Catalonia. Some children who do not speak well or their own languages, who have a deficit in the languages, not in the Spanish language, but in the Catalan language, in the Spanish language, in English. We are behind the PISA reports that value OECD education systems How can you say that we have a system of success in public education in Catalonia? We don't have it all over Spain, we're in line. So don't defend that. What I want, of course, is a trilingual system, like the one you have had, which is a system of success. That's a system of success. Well, I want it in public education. That Catalans can study Catalan, Spanish and English. But we will not only succeed in school by changing the vehicle language, or increasing the number of vehicle languages and adding Catalan, of course, which must remain the vehicle language, English and Spanish. We have to get it by changing the school model, and you know it. We have to change the ways of teaching, we have to change the methodologies, we have to move from a memoristic model to a model of capacity development. Therefore, please do not defend that the school system, the school system in Catalonia is a model of success, because it is not, because there is still a very big difference between children who go to public school and children who come from families who can pay for particular classes, children who can have extra classes, who can go to study foreign languages for a summer. Don't talk about school success, because it's not true. And I'm not just talking about the language, I'm talking about the school model itself. And then, you were talking about that if you hadn't skipped the laws I couldn't be here. Look, Mr Mas, that you compare me..., that you compare me to a European, democratic country, from the European Union, with situations of racial segregation and with situations in which women could not exercise the right to vote, I insist, is an insult. Of course there have been unjust laws! Of course there have been laws without democracy! But what has never happened is democracy without democratic laws. And right now, whether you like it or not, or your travel partners like it or not – which is the CUP, which you sure don't like – we are in the European Union, and the European Union is the largest space in the history of humanity of rights and freedoms. Therefore, do not compare me to jumping us a democratic law, now, which suits you, with racial segregation or when women could not vote. It has cost a lot and, in fact, here we made reference to the Constitution of Cadiz. The Constitution of Cadiz did not even collect this right, a later evolution had to come, but a democratic seed had already been put in place. It was a democratic process – it was a process – a step forward, which we have taken to this day. So don't cheat on the lonely either; that you can skip democratic laws can't compare it to racial segregation or when women couldn't even exercise the right to vote. Because you know that we are not in this situation: we are in a full, improved, much better democracy within Spain, within – also, of course – Catalonia and the European Union. But you can't make... second comparisons. And I tell you one thing, Mr. Mas: the one who has brought us here cannot be the one to get us out of this situation. And you have so much experience and you are a man of order to know that this is not an exit. You do not defend the viability of what you are doing. You're the only one who says there's no other way out. Of course there is a way out, Mr. Mas! And I say to you: don't board all of Catalonia, 7_million_and_half Catalans in a complicated situation, in a dead end, because you don't see personal and political exit to your own situation. Fortunately, Catalonia is much more than you. Fortunately, Catalonia is much more than the 135 Members we are here. We have an obligation to solve people's problems. And you, in five years, have not solved problems but have generated a very fat one – very fat one – and have not wanted to assume the competencies. You didn't want to do politics, Mr. Mas. I say to you: you could have had the support of Citizens in legitimate claims from the Government of the Generalitat as an improvement of a financing model for the Autonomous Communities, but to that you have already renounced, you have already passed screen. An improvement in the distribution of the deficit between the different public administrations. You might have had the support of Citizens, but you've already passed screen. You could have had the support of Citizens and many parties in this chamber to ask for infrastructures to improve the ‘Roads, to improve..., well, to push and do once and for all the Mediterranean Corridor, but it is that you no longer do politics, is installed in the propaganda. We therefore need a political president, a law-abiding president, a president who respects the will of the people at the polls, a president who solves problems and a president who joins the Catalans, not divides them, and who goes to Madrid, also, of course, to claim with loyalty the interests of the Catalans. That is why you, Mr. Mas, cannot be the next president of the Generalitat. And I'm afraid we Citizens aren't the only ones who think so. We believe that even around you, in your trusted people, there are also people who have lost confidence in you, confidence in what you are driving and who do not agree with the madness, from the legal and political point of view, that you have driven. We think there is a way out – there is a way out – we have done it many times throughout history and we are going to do it another way..., now. And there will be dialogue again in Catalonia, there will be consensus again in Catalonia. We will do politics again in Catalonia, we will have a president who defends the interests of Catalans again. What we need is to return to the democratic path. What we need is a political alternative. And at a time as complicated as this, Catalan citizens have trusted Citizens, in our party. At such an important moment, the citizens who feel Spanish and Catalan who want to remain Catalan and Spanish have mostly relied on a party like ours. We're not going to let you down, Mr. Mas. And I ask you not to disappoint any more, neither the citizens nor the members of your party, nor this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.15.0	The very honorable Mr. Artur has the word More... [[Someone said, "No.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, then, has the words of Mr Miquel Iceta, President of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.16.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Mr candidate, Mr Mas, our parliamentary group will not support your investiture, nor will it abstain, to facilitate it, as we intended to do in 2010. He's not gonna freak out, and he's not gonna bother about it, I guess? I say this because you haven't looked for our support, and so you can't alienate it or bother it if you don't get it, but... – the debate could end here, but it seems to me that it would be unfair for the chamber and the citizen to follow the debate – so I would like to explain to him the various reasons that explain why this decision, which is not, in our view, capricious or arbitrary. First of all, we won't support you because you're directly responsible for yesterday's disbandment. I suppose you read the editorials of the two main Catalan newspapers: we share your opinion. It's the disarray of standing out of the law and pursuing a confrontation from which nothing good can come out. We oppose and oppose this drift and from those who accompany it. How can we talk about negotiating when the other side is denied legitimacy in the negotiation? What support will the international community have for a position that runs counter to the law and the state of law that the international community recognizes? Yesterday there was an official reaction from the German government that was unequivocal from this point of view. It gives us the impression that you are prepared to continue as president. He accepted to go by quarter to the list of Junts for the Yes devaluing, in our opinion, the institution of the presidency of the Generality. And now it seems that he is willing to accept a diminished presidency and with a very – very – short expiration date. Finally, he gave the green light to approve a resolution that is nothing more than a desperate runaway and that greatly distorts today's debate. How did he feel he had to approve a motion for a resolution giving a mandate to the future government? The mandate to the future government can only be given when the government is constituted. And the first of his terms are the commitments made at the investiture session. Thank you, he will allow me, to tell us that it was the result of a dialogue process, negotiation and pact. When I heard him say this, I said, "That sounds to me. But, of course, it's a process of dialogue, negotiation and pact between independenceists to achieve independence, leaving the rest out. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes... Dialog, negotiation and pact. We normally give it a range of independence and non-independence. His speech yesterday only had the feeling of convincing the CUP, and it seems that he did not achieve it. He no longer went to the side of the chamber, but to the two deputies who can complete their sixty-two deputies to reach seventy-two, the path of express independence. It wasn't just going to the side of the chamber, it wasn't going to the side of the Catalans. And someone will say, "Home, that's what you think, what do you have to say? Remember how different his investment speech was in the year 2010. You said on September 20, 2010, and I quote literally: "The government that I aspire to preside will be the Government of Catalonia, without any more element than the adjective or the definition, a government for all, has voted on us or not. Now you intend to form a government with the independents to achieve independence when there are not a half of Catalans who want it. I can try, but he won't deny that it's a completely different layout from 2010. Maybe you'll tell me, like Mrs. Arrimadas, that I'm an old man, and that five years change everything. Okay. Yes, I am..., yes, perhaps more ancient and all that Mrs. Arrimadas... [[Rialles.]] But in the year 2010 he also said to us: "The government I aspire to preside will have a high institutional sense. Now it doesn't seem so, when you say that only those respectful laws will be respected. Therefore, 2010 was about making a government for everyone with a different institutional sense. That's why we were able to make it easier for him to invest, in change, now or again. I should think about what that means. It is also true that people were not satisfied with that support, because at the end of a while you were already getting back together with the PP and from that written agreement and signed oblivion conveniently. But, come on, that's not the main reason why we don't lend our support to the investiture today. Mr. candidate, yesterday you said something after me, the flood – "after me, the flood, in expression attributed to Lluís XV, some say that Madame de Pompadour, but it seems to me to be from Lluís XV. If they don't invest it, it looks like the process is over. He's an ally. (Laughter.) But, believe it but when one up to this conclusion – and it's that without him, it's all over – the time has come to think about leaving. Even the independence process, fragile as it is, cannot depend on a single person; in fact, if one person is attacked, its fragility would be spectacular, and I believe that no one is on condition to say that it is so spectacular. Neither is the thesis supported yesterday for you that without independence Catalonia runs the risk of disappearing or, to say the least, with its own words, "Spain is not able to fit a Catalonia with its own personality. You yourself gave a magnificient counter-example: the Commonwealth. By the way, the Commonwealth lasted only nine years: from 1914 to 1923. It was due to the pressure of the Lliga Regionalista de Cambó in the time of President Eduardo Dato – a liberal-conservative – and it was dissolved by the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera – certainly a well repugnant dictatorship for a significant part of the Catalan bourgeoisie, but I do not want to lose in historical disquiet. When one proves that Catalonia is the best universities in Spain, that we are one of the richest autonomous communities, the one with the most open and dynamic economy, the most export, that we have a per capita income higher than most European regions, we can and must ask for a better tax treatment, but we must strengthen the idea of a brutal continuous abuse of the rest of Spain. One thing and the other cannot be certain. What I would like to say to you, referring to history, is that Catalonia has been able at various times to enjoy a relative good understanding with Spanish institutions, often in progressive stages, but also in conservative stages. And it has done so from the point of view of coming to terms with a legitimate aspiration for leadership and a good inner government. You ask us to forever tank this traditional facet of political Catalanism, of pactist and pragmatic character, and decided to star in the modernization of Spain. Miri, there are many of us who do not want to give up, because we believe that neither Catalonia nor Catalans should give up this pragmatic, pactistic, positive and optimistic dimension of political Catalanism or, at least, of one of its central trunks. Yesterday you spent a lot of time explaining the costs of Catalonia's subordination – using its terminology. You spoke..., "there are costs of subordination and a price of freedom. But on the price of freedom, people didn't talk about it. Finally, at a certain point I thought that the price of freedom was to give support to his investiture, but I suppose that was not the intention. The costs of her running away are to be calculated, but they're already in the dark and they're not small. But if he keeps going with his intentions, we'll have to pay for it among all of us, which doesn't stimulate people. Mr. Candidate, you do not want the support of those who are not independent, nor do you intend to form a government capable of representing the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. We already know that our own are difficult subjects, but there are country objectives that can be applied more widely than that of the independenceists: a better self-government, a better finance, a Spain more respectful of diversity, a Spanish state able to effectively represent the interests of Catalans. I remember interesting theoretical debates about whether Catalonia needs a state of its own or can share with others a state capable of defending its interests. Therefore, it is a legitimate debate. Now, a recent question, public fact for The Newspaper, stated that 51.9 of the respondents were, among other things, "rather in disagreement with the fact that the Parliament promoted acts of disobedience in the process towards independence. Another, quite recently, public fact for 8tv, showed that 59.3 of the polls were in favour of negotiating with the new Spanish government that emerged from the general elections of 20th December– I quote, between comets– « a better of Catalonia's self-government in Spain. And, still, I will be forgiven for quoting a third question, published for El País, which showed that 71_percent of Catalans do not want you to remain president. I'm telling you this because I honestly believe that your political moment has passed. I say this about the respect he has given, the respect he has tried and the respect he has given to a political force – his own – which has served the country greatly. Therefore, do not see in this, in any case, a personal criticism and an attempt to minimize its contribution to contemporary Catalonia. But I believe, Mr. candidate, that your candidacy at these times does not allow the advent that the country claims and needs, from different points of view, but I believe that, in the end... You have ruled five years, in which no significant advents have occurred that will be promised: no new project, no new major investment, no new competition. And it is true that you can boast of a Junts election result for Yes on September 27, a result that we do not intend to discuss in absolute terms! And less yet to discuss the great merit of applying for an application that did not want to be applied for, and that in certain cases, therefore, made it very difficult for him. Therefore, no, it is not to restore his merit and effort. But, of course, you say: "I have sixty-two Members, like the ones I had in 2010. Home, no, from respect for everyone, but the sixty-two deputies you had in 2010 were all from Convergence and Union; then, in 2012, Convergence and Union were fifty, and now are one-thirty, from Convergence, in the present. So something's happened. You will tell us: "No, it is that you are very old and I am in the "modern". All right. If I may say so, the "modernity of going from quarter to quarter in a list to continue as president does not accept it as modern; I see it as a tactical maneuver that is not justified by the respect that institutions like the Presidency of the Generality deserve from us, kept in exile with great difficulties and hardships, and that has persuaded us, precisely, for a respect that you, with certain political maneuvers, have shown not to hold them. Mr. Candidate, from our point of view, Catalonia has lost five years. And you can't waste more time waiting for the happy archadia that you promised us yesterday without explaining how it went up and at what cost. We do not want to accompany him on a path that leads to where we do not want to go, but it is that, moreover, we would be afraid to do so, even though we agree with the end destination of the journey, without knowing the costs and risks of the adventure, this, in its terminology, "preu de la liberté. In the effort to convince the only ones he wants to convince, he forgot to justify some important changes in his layout. It is no longer the business friendly proposal of the year 2010, which eliminated, nor was it for a short time, the inheritance tax. Neither the initial enthusiasm for austerity policies nor the support for the Law of Presuppositional Stability or the labour reform of the PP. Certainly, he promised a point and apart in corruption; you spoke of corruption, very little, but promised a point and apart. But, if I may, to make a point and apart, it will be necessary first to know what has happened and who is responsible. A point and apart is not a final point law. We don't want blurry and new count. We want to know what happened, we want to know if there was any irregular financing of your party and its foundations. We want to know if the public works award procedures were armored against the favor, as you said in this chamber, or were not. And I know, as I always say, that when we say we want to know we don't want to prejudice, we don't want to give for girls things that have not been tried and decreed for a trial in a judgment as proven. I also remember, in the past, that some of the commitments he made yesterday were in the investment speeches of 2010 and 2012, and were not fulfilled. I'm telling you from the point of view of the credibility of the promises that you're making in front of the chamber. To name a few, very quickly. The year 2010: the own territorial organization, the reform of the Administration and the civil service, the Catalan Law on Dependency, the General Law on Trade and Services. Or 2012: the Catalan law of personal autonomy – another goal –, the reform of the minimum income of insertion, the law of the Catalan civil service, the new territorial organization. It is to say that there are elements, in their compromise, in their planning of legislature, that they are already like a vortex, it is what we are proposing, it is what we are proposing, it is the commitments that have been acquired and that, at last, I must recognize that some, when feeling them, therefore, we already give per fact that they are the things that are to be said, but that probably we will not see. I do not want to go too far in my intervention, since you do not seek our support, and, certainly, it would be a lack of coherence of yours and ours to explore a collaboration that the resolution adopted yesterday makes impossible. If you consider – and I believe you consider it – that the mandate approved yesterday for this Parliament is what your government, your presidency, must illuminate, is obviously that we cannot, from the point of view of the way, support it. You invite us to more historic days like yesterday's – yesterday's, it's true, with a lot lower than other historical days that were more vibrant – but we believe that the Catalans deserve concrete advances that will not come from the hand of confrontation without going out, but will come through a real process of dialogue, negotiation and pact with the new Government of Spain that comes out of the elections of 20 December. Nothing you promise can be sunk, from our point of view, from confrontation and illegality. If I may, I might say, I do not know whether we would agree with this and I, that Catalonia has two ways to govern it at these times: or to complete this express independence, that one day for another it will give us all the instruments to make the country worthwhile, or from negotiation with the institutions of the State. As we don't believe in the first of our lives, so let's say that everything you promised yesterday, that many of the things are perfectly affordable for everyone, will not be insoluble, precisely, for the way you have gone. Certainly, the path of the agreement will not be easy. You give a lot of examples, and in some you're right. I had to win... – I don't think that's what I said from this rostrum. The attitude of Convergence and Union in May 2010 at the Congress of Deputies was exceptional, it was exemplary, yes, President, and I, when you say it, feel obliged to return to it - I am in the right, indeed. Now, also say that he did it because he thought it was the best for Catalans and Catalans, because Espanya was not rescued was also of interest for Catalans and Catalans. Normally, not always, what's good for Catalans is good for Spanish and what's good for Spanish is good for Catalans. You say: "We will achieve a great international response to the things we have done. Man, we got it with the Olympic Games, too, and I think we're better off, but, well, that every single one of them sorts out the international response they want. Someone could also say to me: "No, the result of the Olympic Games was only from Barcelona. Home, only, only... but, in fact, I won't miss it. We believe that we must abandon the defeatism and the agonizing character of some of the proclamations that are fanciful: "Or now, or never! , "We're in a hurry! , « Everything! , « Late arrival! Clearly, I think that, despite the fact that some diaries have been lining up to introduce me to the historian, I think the story of Catalonia shows us that 'Now or never! , he « All or nothing! ... well, all these things, so they're certainly not, because life is life, and fortunately, and as you came to wish it to Inés Arrimadas, long, full of adventures, full of knowledge and not always, necessarily, of clubs. I also say that, because sometimes all the debates in this chamber seem to invite neither politics nor, ultimately, civic compromise. From all angles, as I think I should abandon defeatism, I would like to provide some elements that I think should be an agenda for the Government of Catalonia if I really have a majority and inclusive vocation. If I may, Mr. candidate, Catalonia needs to be stabilized, good government and able to negotiate. And we believe, Mr. candidate, that your proposal does not guarantee either a stable, good government or a capacity to negotiate. Enabled, because in the best of cases we again talk about split_months. President, you have already called two times in advance of the elections and already announces that the third will also be anticipated, and, if we need some information, very early. Listen, it's not the best way to serve the country's interests. We need legislation that is complete, governments that work four years and do it with certainty and dedication. Which are our priorities. The first, of course, the economic revival and the creation of work places, a process that requires concertation; it will deny me if I'm wrong, but yesterday I didn't hear it talk to you either about unions or business organizations, came out a lot of people in the speech, but this element, no. A process that requires political stabilization, coherent and cohesive governments, and you, who are looking for an investment agreement with the CUP..., the CUP, if I'm not wrongly fixed – and that no one sees this as a criticism –, you don't want to compromise with government action, you have all the right. But then who guarantees us the stability of government action? Or is it a matter of getting the investiture at the price that's next and then we'll find it? We don't think this is the best way to the country. And, above all, a process that cannot put our continuity in the European Union and in the euro system at risk, not for a second. We have a Catalan economy with enormous potential – its entrepreneurs, its workers, its entrepreneurs, its entrepreneurs, its autonomists, its researchers, its innovators, its cultural creators and its associated industries – and we need some things that we believe have not been done well. We participated in the process of reforming the Law of Vocational Training, as the President and Councillor know. We could not do it with the Law of Reform of the Occupational Service of Catalonia, because we understood that it was not enough, that it was not adequate. But this has to be done. You've got to keep going. We need to provide it with resources and professionals to make it more effective in accompanying people who have lost their jobs, many of whom require deep professional retraining and a great effort to motivate them. Measures against youth, juvenile exile and long-term seniors of 45 years of age are needed. The second priority is the defence of the welfare state, public policies, health care and education, with plans to fight the waiting lists, with the recovery of the purchasing power of the professionals, its valorization, avoiding any diversion of resources to the private sector; with a civil rescue plan towards the most vulnerable people and families, and with a compromise of poor zero that children have as their first priority. The third priority is the fight against corruption and tax fraud. The regeneration of our democracy, the civic empowerment, the associative vitality, the transparency and compromise of a function different from the parties, of an ethic financing of the parties and their foundations, and of an electoral system that is more proportional and that brings the elected to the citizenry. I, here, if I may, President, do not deprive you of the non-approval of the Catalan electoral law, because I believe that we all have to do, we have to take responsibility for a job that the same Catalan laws require us to approve for a majority of two-thirds. And, therefore, tell the government that this didn't... it's different not to have reformed the minimum income for insertion. But, go on, in any case, the election law does not depend solely on you. And the fourth priority: to solve the problem of the fit between Catalonia and the rest of Spain – I make a parenthesis, I don't say finally; there are people who think that things are fixed definitively, I don't, as I also have a certain age, so things resolve them for a time and above a moment that you have to fix them again, it doesn't happen, that's it, but because of the dialog. And it is a dialect that, from our point of view, must culminate in a constitutional reform that must be submissive to reference. But it has other staves of touch, such as the revision of the financing model or the long list of twenty-three pending themes that you left on President Rajoy's table and that he has not even answered so much. We can't just leave it all up to that big day when we're going through the big door to the happy arch that you promised us yesterday. We need to work from now on, aware that since the collaboration between institutions we will advance and much more quickly than since the confrontation, and much more, still, if we begin to ignore legality, which deprives us of the legitimacy necessary to demand and negotiate in defense of our interests. I think it's a totally different path from what you're proposing to us. Some measures, no, because you will say: "With many of the things he has said, I agree. But, President, you're telling us that by the way of confrontation you'll get them. And we deny that this is the way to get them, because I made it clear that with poor zero, with the struggle against poor children, we would agree, but if we don't have a new funding, we can hardly face it with the strength it requires. I sincerely believe that the majority who have obtained them are qualified to govern; "if they find me, they can rule, even so..., well, passed the process – forgive me for the expression – of the investiture, alone. Sixty-two Members are many. You have already shown that you are able to rule with sixty-two Members. Therefore, this was not discussed at all. Now, not to pursue express independence. You introduce a morning that I don't know how to see, but I will look very carefully, when you say: "No, what we approved today is not a unilateral declaration of independence. Yes, but from the zero moment you say you won't accept the legitimacy of the Spanish institutions. So, like here, sometimes, and with all due respect, we've turned parliamentary debate and political debate into a kind of logo, into floral games, to see who says it the most differently: "Now they're not independent anymore, but we'll be disconnected. En fi, I'm sorry. I think there's lawfulness, there's the compliment of lawfulness or the failure of lawfulness. And yesterday, in our court, very and very wrongly, they decided to get out of law and respect for the state of law. And, therefore, for this path we will not go anywhere, or wherever we go they will not please them. And, therefore, if you want to rule from the respect of legality we can share many things, in the measure that you have said you want to do it, you can't share anything. And, therefore, in this way we will not find ourselves, better said, we will oppose it little by little and on horseback – which I always explain, because then, at the time of the translations of the media..., it is « cape and sword», but in catalá it is « little by little and on horseback. Because, summarizing it a lot, president– and I hope I don't feel like I'm doing a caricature– you say to us: "There is only one way, that is independence; only one way to relax it, that is to place us out of legality, and only one leader who can do it, that is yourself. Clearly, I must say to him: "No, no, no. No to independence, no to illegality and not to you as president. We don't agree. Massa often wanted to confuse Catalonia with a game, and also with a person, as if to repeat a hard mistake that is, at the same time, an anomaly, a danger and a risk to all folds. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.17.0	To answer, the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.18.0	Well, thank you, Mr. Iceta. Now... you now have a parliamentary companion who is very tall and, then, that makes me lose perspective. That goes a little bit like in the movies or in the theater, doesn't it? And he touches someone there before he's too tall and then you don't see what's going on... But, come on, I listened to him very carefully, and I'd like to comment on some of the things you've put on the table. I said, first of all, that I am directly responsible for everything that happened yesterday. I ask them not to assign me so many responsibilities together, because I obviously have a part of the responsibility, and I don't love it – I haven't guessed, I think, almost anything – but I'm not the only one. In the same way that I gave Mrs. Arrimadas, when there are 1_million_i_mig people on the street every year for four years, this cannot be the object of a manic manipulation of some taumaturg who is stuck in a depatx and who moves the wires. Because, explained so, it's a decrease in the opinions of others, and their condition of adult and mature people who decide for themselves. And in this sense, you think that, Mr Iceta, if seventy-two Members and Members, who are an absolute majority in this Parliament, agree with this resolution, you must be for something. And it's obvious that they don't agree because I'm president of the Generality, because, if it were that way, without going any further, there would be an affirmative vote today, and you hear that everyone understands that it's not going to happen? So, Mr. Iceta, that's not the point. This is not the price of the investiture, and you will see it today – you will see it today. I believe, go; now I advance to events, and I would not want to carve paths that, you see..., I wonder if some, therefore, have done some last-minute reflection, but, as I fear not, they will not have done it, and, if they have done it, it will not be in the sense that you thought, therefore, you will see, most likely, that one thing has not been connected to the other. And he will see it for the facts, for the pure evidence. And, therefore, if this resolution was done for many things, but, above all, for one, it is the most important of all, that it is to give coherence and continuity to a democratic mandate rejected at the polls on 27 September. The resolution responds to this. You will remember that you will remember the Junts for the Yes program, which is which threesixty-two deputies and deputies, there was the programmatic concept of making a statement of process initiators to constitute an independent state in Catalonia. This is in the program – this is in the program, Mr.Iceta –: 40_percent of the votes, sixty-two Members. You yourself, and I agree with him, valued that sixty-two Members and Members are many. It's the result of the election. At some other time he told me about the inquiries, and he said to me: "The question of The Newspaper, the question of 8tv... But, Mr.Iceta, if we have just made the elections – we have just made the elections! What better question– and, in this case, what of the larger, as to the exhibition – than the 27th of September? Because it turns out that they went to vote 75_percent of Catalans and Catalans, as never in some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia: more than 4_million people. There's no better thing about this. And the people, not in a poll, but in the polls, and a few weeks ago, what did they tell us? We were told to Junts for the Yes, 40_percent of the votes, sixty-two members of the Parliament of Catalonia. They didn't give us most of them alone, that's true. And they said two MPs and MPs for the CUP, who also defended a program – in a different way, obviously – to reach an independent state for Catalonia. And the sum of that is seventy-two. And we have a very clear warrant. And remember one thing, Mr. Iceta... – and I'm saying this because now, like you and I, so, we've known each other a long time and... sometimes we interpret each other, right? But we always adjust to what we say and don't say what we didn't say, huh? – Remember one thing that is important to me: I always said – and I didn't fool anyone, and to you, in talking to you, we had not spoken several times – that those were not elections... – as I called them – they were not more elections to the Catalan Parliament to administer a four-year term. You'll remember that. I said, "We have no choice but to use some elections to the Catalonian Parliament to do what we have not been left to do in any other way. It is to say, to make a consultation, a reference, a plebiscite – say as you please –, to know the opinion of the people of this country, to know how many people there are in favour of independence and how many people there are against it. And I always said, "It's the worst possible instruments to do this. I've always said that. But if he's the only one, when you only have one, because they just left you one, the alternative is, either you use that one or you don't do anything. And between doing nothing and using an instrument that was not the best, but that was possible, it was sorting to use that instrument, that was not the best but it was possible. And he has allowed us..., he has allowed us to count deputies and deputies in this Parliament; and, look where, there are seventy-two, for the first time in history, in favor of independence, and the other sixty-three against. That's the result... I'm sorry, the other sixty-three, no: fifty-two against... And eleven who say they're defending a reference, and if they're defending a reference – when they intervene, then I can mention it –, I mean they accept the possibility that in this reference it's votes on independence. So we don't know where they are, these eleven, from this point of view. We know you're in the defense of the right to decide, of the sovereignty, and therefore of a reference. The rest is seventy-two to fifty-two. Mr. Iceta, seventy-two in favour of "yes, fifty-two in favour of "is not a great difference, after having passed through the ballot box. That's 20 different MPs! There are a few groups in this chamber that don't have them, 20 deputies, and I don't only refer to theirs. After he came by the polls. Do not ask, no; counting votes and, as a result of counting votes, and according to our current standards, counting deputies and deputies. That's the result, and so I think we're legit. If you are seventy-two to fifty-two you are entitled to pull forward. Now you said to me: "To pull forward... But... – and here's where, surely, therefore, it's worth an acclaim – to pull forward, but in what way? I tried to explain it yesterday and today I tried to remember again. I said this explicitly yesterday, in my investiture speech is written: in this statement, in this resolution of yesterday's Parliament, there is no point in talking about unilateral declaration of independence. It's not there. There could've been, huh? Mr Iceta; there could have been, with an absolute majority in Parliament, but there is no such thing. And why isn't it there? And here it is true that the same representatives of the UPC said from the first moment: "There is not, among other things, because we have not sunk 50 percent of the votes. And why haven't we sunk 50 percent of the votes? This is a much longer debate than we've probably been producing during this legislature, but we've been very close, haven't we? Mr. Iceta. A little more and we're past 50, we're playing. As soon as they do things the way we understand they're going to do in Madrid, we'll be over 50, and maybe we won't cheat or split. Those who are against, vagrantly, because, with the pace we are going, the more quickly the feeling there is that this will go to more, not less. And, if they look at it in the terms of these three years later, they'll see that the acceleration rate was very high, because three years ago that didn't happen, and now it's only three years ago. You will tell me quite rightly: "But they have ruled the People's Party with an absolute majority and have done so as they have done. And now, when others come, if they come, it'll be very different. Okay. We'll see all of this after December 20th, all of this now is a toast to the sun. We'll see about that. But in any case, the reality is what we have now, and this is what I was trying to describe. You added to me a concept that said: "You are willing to be president. That, Mr. President... Mr. Iceta, it's a little bit of a thing to say to me, it's a little bit of a thing to say to me, isn't it? I'm a little bit personal, because... first of all, because it's not true: I'm not willing to do what it is to be president, take it into account. I'm not willing to do whatever it is, anyway. I have said it many times and I repeat it: there are lines that I, if I am president, will not pass them. Now, also, I'll tell you something else, I'll get as far as I can to set up the search warrant in the polls on September 27th. I won't be shaking my ways or failing my pulse if it's my responsibility, in the part that I'm playing, which is obviously a part; for a lot of the president that it's a person from a country or a government, it's a part; it's not all, not all, not all, and we've never planted it, more, this way. You say to me: "You are willing, at last, to set them an expiry date. Mr. Iceta, ask him... – you are an applied person, in this sense, and with much experience –, ask him to read our election program. Our election program said we were going to a split-month legislature. Therefore, we have not deceived anyone, people have voted for us in these conditions, knowing perfectly well. That you don't like that every time there are choices because you think it's excessive? I agree with you: I don't like it either. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no... if we fully agree. But I don't see any other way to do it. Because, let's face it, we're doing something as important as trying to build Catalonia an independent state... – that's so important, it's the most important thing a country can get to do far from its history, from the point of view of its own structure–, it's so important, it's best to do it by voting! Mr. Iceta, it's better to do it by voting! So many good people have come to independence only voting, as we want to do the people of Catalonia. And if in this great process we can vote a few times more than when we have a normalized system, then, listen'm, the world will not sink to go to vote – the world will not sink to go to vote – because it is better to do so than to do so in the way that many others have done and that we obviously refuse, here yes, firmly do it: not a gram of violence, Mr. Iceta – not a gram of violence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but others got there, almost everyone got there that way – almost everyone got there that way. We reject it explicitly, it's not the taranna of Catalonia. You said to me: "Who is the price of freedom? So, look, a price that can't be paid, even from my point of view, is violence. This one can't pay. Now, I also have to recognize one thing, we remain sincere among all the folds: it's not by taking the bar, and even tilting a little, the example of citizenship that this country has given in the past four, five, years, with these huge demonstrations, as they have never seen any other place so repeatedly, girls in such an exemplary way, with people who were in the right place, who were not just in the right place to protest against, but they were in the right place to defend something else, a project of the future, say as they were? This is exemplary, Mr. Iceta. Has that been taken into account? Has anyone valued it in Madrid? We've got a lot on our plate: understatements, understatements, insults... Has anyone valued this civic exhibition of the people of Catalonia? When there were so many people on the street, he said: "Where is the silent majority? So now you know, where's most of it. But not silent, the one who went to vote. And this majority that went to vote... you know the results. And it is this majority who went to vote, which is not exactly silent, but very civic, which has given seventy-two Members and Members in this Parliament in favour of independence. This majority. Can't that be taken into account? Is that worthless? Doesn't this deserve to be sweaty in a table? Doesn't that deserve... to be criticized by the members of the Catalan institutions to talk about it? No preconditions? Without saying: "Will they not pass? Without saying: "What a humiliation! Is that what you're talking about? Without saying: "Quin affront! Is that what you're talking about? Without saying, "What a disgrace, what an insult, what a betrayal, what a riot, what an insurrection! Is that what you're talking about? This is what we feel – this is what we feel: "What a time it is! I mean, for telling us, for expressing the free expression, and having gone to vote, even though it's in a sense that I don't like certain people, is that all you're saying? You said to me: "They have dialogued among the independenceists, to make this resolution, and that we should have gone further there. Mr. Iceta, you now – don't say, the PSC, huh? , but in this case the PSOE yes – they have dialogued between you, in Madrid, these last days. In Pedro Sánchez and Mariano Rajoy don't stop talking. Have you called us to speak of Catalonia? Mr. Sánchez has commented to Mr. Rajoy..., to say: "To see if we call the Catalan institutions together? Well, I'd celebrate a lot... that you believe in that, and that you did, at least, or that you said. But, listen'm, it didn't pass. Ah! But, of course, if it's said and it doesn't happen, it doesn't really work. Therefore, they make it possible. Why, do you hear that you have to agree with me that it's completely absurd, and it's even humiliating, and it's almost funny, not to say pathetic, that it's about Catalonia with everyone less with the legitimates represented by the Catalan institutions? And if they don't want to talk to me, because it turns out that I'm a working president, so look, we have the president of the Catalonian Parliament, who's not working. Has anyone called him? Has anyone summoned you? None, Mr. Iceta. Therefore, certainly, we have spoken between seventy-two that we can pull forward a project because we have a warrant at the polls. But we can't show how others talk to us, because they just don't talk to us. I'm not talking about the PSOE right now, but on the part of the Spanish government it's completely closed the door to talk. They won't even admit the dialyg. Moreover, they say in public: "There is nothing to talk about this. It's just like there's a lot of people on the street every year. They're the same. Now it will be just as there are a 48_percent of people in Catalonia who have voted in favour of independence. That I told you yesterday: it's a dream, Mr. Iceta, total to the Spanish Constitution. How can you now speak of the validity of the Spanish Constitution, which speaks of the unit of Spain, with a country like Catalonia, with 48_percent of its population that just said that what it wants is precisely a state of its own? How does this Constitution socially hold up in Catalonia at this time? What legitimacy does this Constitution have, when we have just said to the polls practically half the people of Catalonia: "Listen to me, we do not agree, already, we are in another phase, have we passed the screen? Doesn't that deserve a serene reflection in Madrid? And forgive me for saying one thing: in this very resolution of which you are making... I don't know if you've fixed yourself at the last point. I'd ask them to get to read the last point, too. It's a point that he invites, a little more, for the first time, he's in the dialogue with everyone. Invite the dialog with everyone, starting with the Spanish State. Therefore, I ask you not to present yourself as those people we don't want to talk about, and we don't want to talk about, and we want to impose our decisions. We have a democratic mandate, we want to implement it, we have started a process to implement it, but we continue to offer the dialog. But because there is a dialog, Mr.Iceta, there must be two who want the dialog, and there are some who say, "We don't want to talk about this, we don't want to talk about it. Go on, they say, "This is what we fight on the ground, on the sea and on the air, "they will not pass, "we will sink them, "we have all the ammunition prepared so that they do not pull forward, because they do not make a single step... This is the language we receive. And when they don't comply with this, so the prosecution, and not exactly the Vendrell one. And the D.A., acting as a source. Against what? Against the 9th of November of the past year. To you it was horrifying that in this country – I am sure not, because the acquaintance – there is a civic day with ballot boxes on the street where people can arrange their own will, their own will from a point of view of the idea of country, and that 2,350,000 people before voting, precisely? I mean, it doesn't bother him, how am I convinced? What answer did we get from the State, Mr. Iceta? Wants. For the criminal justice system. What are you trying to do? To incapacitate people chosen in Catalonia to the ballot boxes, institutional representatives of Catalonia. I'm talking about incapacitating and staying short. Because, if you could, some of them would get more out there. This is the reality we find ourselves in. Well, you were talking to me about 2010, and you said to me: "2010 you planted things in another way. You're obvious. I set up the tax pact; you have to remember that. And we had a very broad mandate in this Parliament to defend the tax pact. We were talking to the People's Party of the Fiscal Pact government, with a lot of meetings. A few, public; many, private. Couldn't advance a millimetre_sol. Impossible. And before we talked a little bit to the PSOE, but the PSOE ended its government; you had to remember it perfectly, year 2011. That, of course, he left the government told us to write down 759 million euros that were due to the infrastructure issue and that above all we put everything to reduce the deficit, because the generality was going to get out of the deficit. And we did all two things. We, who are so undisciplined, did all two things: we wrote down 759 million euros in admissions and applied them to reduce the deficit. And you left without recognizing the debt and without paying. And I was told to La Moncloa, Mr. Iceta. And as one begins to have experience, so now he doesn't believe anything. Because when you're trained so many times in the end, you lose confidence. And like you're being trained, you still lose the most, because you think, "The alternative won't get us out of the mess either. I'm sorry, am I? Mr. Iceta, because we've tried everything. You referred to something else in 2010, and I am now explaining another one that, it is true, had a great social consensus in Catalonia. And the things show us that, by a lot of social consensus in Catalonia, this will be respected by the state, at least to be able to talk about it seriously? Before we talked about linguistic immersion. Is there anything more consensual about Catalonia? I'm very pleased that you've always defended her. I looked at consensus, tea – I looked at consensus, tea. But she's attacked even though she has a great deal of consent. The tax pact had a great deal of consensus. Is there anything you can talk about? No, no, They let us move on, didn't they? No, no, The right to decide has consent, to Catalonia, Mr. Iceta? You were there, now it looks like you're not there, but before you were there. Have you consented to Catalonia, the right to decide? We're expanding. Miri, they only look at the composition of this chamber, eighty-three deputies and deputies. God doesn't do it. Surely, more than three_five_parts; much reinforced majority. Is anyone here in Madrid? Is anyone willing to talk seriously about a reference to Catalonia? Yes, someone, yes. Someone, I know. Someone, yeah. But this someone can have a determining factor why is that? So we'll see about that – we'll see about that. Triage a few weeks to find out. Well, one point, Mr. Iceta. "If they didn't invest me, the process would be over. I never said that. Don't say I said things I didn't say. I never said that. I said... first, I didn't customize it. Then I said, "If there is no definite government, the process is stuck. And I added: "Almenys for a while. And that, Mr. Iceta, is pure evidence. But that's not about me. I said, "If there is no definite government, the process is closed. And, look for where, given the election results, the President of Parliament proposes me to be a candidate for the presidency of the Generality. So now it's about me, right now. Among other things, because the President of Parliament has proposed it. But don't be fooled: I'm talking about a definite government. It is true, and here you would be right, that because there is a definite government there must be a president or a president of the Generality. That's true. That's why we're in an investment debate. But I said one thing obvious: "What will be the use of many resolutions of the Catalonian Parliament if it turns out that we have a government in place? They won't be good for nothing, or for little. Therefore, it is clear that this Parliament has a principal duty, that it is to settle the investiture. And this week we'll have the chance to do it, whether or not we solve it. If we resolve it, listen'm, government defined. And, therefore, the Parliament and the Government, aligned. If we do not resolve it, we will have a constituted Parliament and a functioning government, which is a government that derives from the previous legislature. And we're not in the previous legislature anymore, we're in the current one. That's the layout. Therefore, I did not speak of myself, nor did I speak of halting the process, Mr. Iceta. Above all, in this it is important the precision, because for me it is essential that this is explained in this way. Well, a couple more things you've been commenting on. He said that there must be a stake in the dialogue and a constitutional reform, and that we are in the wrong line because we are in the line of confrontation, and that there are others who are in the line of the dialogue. The central point, Mr. Iceta, is how it causes the dialy, to the Spanish State. And here we probably disagree. We all want the dialog. But do you think the dialog is possible just by doing the right thing? Is it possible the dialog simply going to Madrid as always? The moment that Catalonia is down, the guard respects what it is doing, who do you think will be the reaction in Madrid? You know what, the reaction, in Madrid, why do we have a lot of experience? Problem finished, folder archived; let's go to another. This is reality, we like it or we don't like it. And this is the attitude of a state that acts as it acts, and acts with an infinite prepotence – infinite – and with an intolerance to the spectacular, giant Catalan national reality. That's the reality. So, of course we want dialy. I said the resolution adopted yesterday by Parliament. Of course we do. But how will there be a dialog in Spain? There will be dialogue, I suppose – I suppose – at some point, for us it will not remain, if the structures of the State, and they are very broad, these structures of the State, because they go beyond politics, they realize that Catalonia is willing to follow this path, endorsed by the ballot box. Not to culminate in this legislature, which must be short, not to culminate it, because it is certain that we have not crossed the border to be able to culminate, but to lay all the foundations so that all this is possible and to do something even more important: in order to be able to elaborate a future Catalan constitution, that a step for a referendum, if at last it has a much majority support of the Catalan society, follow the definitive implementation of the Catalan state, and of the independent Catalan state. That's right, that's why we have a mandate, and that's what we're gonna follow, that's what we're gonna get through to the last consequences. With dialect, always, whenever someone wants to listen to us, knowing that this is the current reality of Catalan society and that it certainly has different factors that have caused it. But that's the reality; we can't give it the bait, Mr. Iceta. We'll like you better or we'll like you less, you probably don't like people, or very little, but this is the reality. And, said that, therefore, simply add to it that... you said: "Diem" no" to independence. They have all the right – they have all the right –, they have to value their position, obviously; they are part of this society, of this country, and we all know that there are very different people in this country, people who are in favour of independence and people who are against it, we have proved it in the polls. Therefore, the dialogue between us, in any case, is important, because the country is of all of us and is no more than one; the dialogue in Catalonia at the moment can be aborted, at the moment it can be interrupted. That's just up to us. Then he said: "No to independence, no to confrontation, I seem to say, or ‘no to illegality.' Just, let's talk a moment of this, even if it's a minute, "no to illegality. No to the illegality means "all and all" to the interpretation that is made of a Spanish state legislation that today stuns against the social reality of Catalonia. Before he set an example: "Choca", the current Constitution, with the social reality of Catalonia, when it turns out that the 48_percent of the people who voted in Catalonia, with a historical participation, say "we want an independent Catalonia?" Obviously he's playing against the Spanish Constitution. I heard, after the June 2010 Constitutional Court ruling on the subject of the Statute, you see very moderate – but very moderate, huh? – of some who had followed pairs of the Constitution that, from that moment on, gave that resolution of the Constitutional Court on the Statute: "This Constitutional Court is not legitimized in Catalonia. I felt like I was seeing a lot of moderates, couples from the Constitution! And now, five years later, the Parliament of Catalonia finds that to be so. But it's the moderates, very moderates! That they had drafted the Constitution, say the same thing five years ago, and now we see it. Therefore, will of lawlessness is not there, Mr.Iceta, but will to make it clear that it is necessary to change the legal marks and that we will commit ourselves to this, to change the legal marks to make it possible for democracy to be fundamental, that it is to implement the result of voting in the ballot box, which means the popular will, yes – that is yes. And I don't see why it has to be so different, even though you don't like it at all. And they say, "No, it seems to me that they say, "no to independence, no to illegality – I have already challenged it – and say, "No to Mas. They're not the first ones to say it. [[the candidate for the presidency of the]] Not even the last of them at this parliamentary session, I understand; but, believe me – and I'm telling you honestly – the problem is not me. For some, perhaps, yes, but the problem is not me; I do not particularize or customize so much. There is a social reality that is what it is and that is about to remain; that the only one who has to make the elections and who have an absolute majority in this Parliament is to manage it well, this reality, and not to be mistaken. But reality is there, and it wasn't there before, and now it is. And the issue is not But yes or no, the issue is how it gives democratic and parliamentary response to the people's expressed will at the polls at a time when they went to vote for 75 percent of the population, more than ever in a call to form a parliament in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.19.0	To answer, the word has the illustrious Lord Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.20.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr. But, if, as I hope, you're not invested, I'll miss our debates here. You say: "I am not the problem. No, but this is his investiture, and we understand that for the way we think it's right for you in Catalonia, it's a problem. You learn a lot about mobilizations and social reality, and you're right, they exist, but they are variable, to life. I look at Quebec, which have made two references, and now the perspective is more lune than ever, than ever before at two moments..., yes, yes, they have made both, but not now. And, therefore, things that seemed inevitable, that everyone wants, right? – that's what we all say, one and the other, huh? "Everybody wants it – so look, now everybody doesn't want it. Therefore, giving that a social reality at a certain time, in a context of economic crisis, for example, is a fixed date of the problem, I believe it is abusive, I believe. Now, you say: "You cannot ignore the sight of the people, the mobilizations. Sense of doubt. And you celebrate very much the civics of those who participate in the demonstrations, I suppose with the same intensity the civics of those we do not go to, because it is obvious that it is the conjunction of the society that expresses these civic virtues, and fortunately, and for many years. We believe that you do not have the legitimacy to give as you did the secession, nor much less a clear mandate. The very existence that they say of the democratic mandate, I think it puts in store until what point they're not quite sure about that. It is not possible to make such a far-reaching decision as to separate into democracy without there being no agreement on the mechanism or procedure that would give it this legitimacy, which would guarantee the existence of this broad social consensus. And this is an agreement that's not good today, not even between Catalans. The resolution, president, candidate, say what is said, gives per fact that the end of this is a secession. You say, "Have you read point 9? Yes, yes, and so much so that we read it. Says: "Declares the willingness of negotiating partners to carry out the democratic mandate of creating an independent Catalan state, as if I tell you that I want to start negotiations to keep your car. Well, it's a tough thing. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, I mean... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, but it's true, you said something we'd have to negotiate, and I'm already prefixing the end of the negotiation, which is that I'm staying the car. He said: "We have to negotiate on this, but I am already right. Then I don't need to... So much so, that you in this I think you have been very sincere; they literally say: "Declare the will of the negotiators for such a fact... but do not say with whom, naturally; why do you find that you want to put in a table of negotiations to certify what you want? They don't say to whom they want to negotiate, no, no, I read it sensibly: "Declare the will of negotiating for such a democratic mandate – that they don't have –" to create an independent Catalan state in the form of a republic –" and, thus, make it known to the Spanish State, to the European Union and to the joint international community and to the heavenly powers. [[Rialles.]] So they're going to some negotiations that they don't know who they're into, but they're putting it in everybody's knowledge! Or go on, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And why is that? Why is this writing tortured? But if I see it, if it's obvious! It is the fruit of a dialogue, negotiation and pact; you already told us. Why aren't negotiations with the Spanish State said here? Surely because someone didn't see it clearly, it's obvious! And that's why they wrote it that way. And that's why, when I say that the responsible person and you say, "Don't look at me in the sun, I can make a mistake, but I actually don't know that if you approve of this proposal with this literality, it's because there's been a negotiation with some of which you want to get something else, not just the approval of this resolution. And this is the point, and I think this is the error, from our point of view. You always say 'law and democracy'. Listen to me, in this Mrs. Arrimadas found the formulation, I think, more suitable: there is no democracy without her. And you have to remember that the main, first obligation of public power is submetering its law. Therefore, you tell me – and I can give it at this point the reason: "To force a negotiation with the institutions of the State to maintain tension. Yes, but do not – on the contrary, you have to do the opposite – say that you will not respect the law, because this disables, impossible any negotiation. And you wanted to place him in the Constitutional Court; forgive me, he says: "Since 2010 he's been delegitimized, but we haven't been able to send him constitutional remedies and competition disputes. Well, because that's what it is; you say, "No, but not from now on, because the Parliament decided to do so, yesterday, with this resolution that two days from now will be annulled by this Constitutional Court. Don't cheat, don't cheat. I don't think we're fooling each other, but maybe some of us who aren't here are fooling each other and making certain things. You say votes and questions. Look, I..., you have every reason: in democracy it is the votes that are running. But the same way you always say that in some votes there is not a will of reference, a will of a different political sort, in many votes there is a will of negotiation, which does not necessarily end up in the secession that you already give as irreversible and inevitable; that is what I am saying. And many of those who say that they voted Together for the Yes because they expected a negotiation, so they have full right to do so. I warned them, I warned them, that I did not do it, I told them: "For this way there is no possible negotiation, but they did not give me the reason and they got to vote for you, but now they may see that the negotiation is not possible, laid down in these terms and starting with a reduction in the democratic legality of Spain. You count numbers as accounts, but Parliament counts numbers as well. Yesterday a resolution was voted with 72 votes in favour and 63 against– 63. No 51 and 12, or the next one, or 52 and 11, no: 63. Why? Home, first of all, because it is considered, on the part of those who voted no, that this is not a path. Then we can disagree on which way the good would be, but that's not the good... if not, they wouldn't have voted against it, I mean we don't give it back. The independence that you want implies entering to load the Statue. Next, a statute that we would have to vote for for two thirds and now we can challenge it without getting to two thirds. Is that what this is? Home... And, therefore, "in the knowledge, because to reach independence you can break with the Constitution, but also with the Statute, which you say what you say. You say, "Well, based on what they do in Madrid, we're still in a bit of a hurry. I remember, when I was going to college... "The worse, the better, were the tactics of some games to the... – I was already a moderate in college, me – and some games they said: "The worse, the better. Home, no: for Catalans, better, better. So, trusting that an unorthodox or misguided reaction will give you arguments is proving that the arguments you have are now weak, isn't it? I wouldn't do it! Because you say, "The PP government denies the dialog. I don't have to go up here to defend the PP, that's what you'll do in Xavier García Albiol wonderfully; but, listen, you didn't want to wait for the general elections. So we have all the right to think that you didn't want the dialog with anyone! Not just the ones that were there, but there were some who could come. Because that's because the chamber is witness. I have sometimes said, and perhaps pardon'ml'expression, that I did the dance of the seven veils, but our parliamentary group gave you the opportunity to exhaust the legislature, among other things because the conditions that you seemed to pose to go to some elections did not make it easy, to say: 'Listen to me, wait for the general elections, to see if the Spanish political scenario offers us opportunities that we can't even imagine now. But you didn't want to wait! And if you're waiting now – I can make a mistake about this, and I don't want to be unfair anymore – it's because you didn't get the result I expected. Why, if not, wait for what? If this results, which is not 50_percent of the votes, we get the paper they planted yesterday, imagine if you have 50_percent of the votes! You didn't want to wait. So they didn't make it easy, maybe they didn't want it; now you don't want it either. Before we talked about the Commonwealth; I looked at it: the Commonwealth, it's true, was born in 1914, but it was three years, huh? Waiting for the moment, doing the negotiation, three years for a community, huh? But, uh... no, no, three hundred years, a thousand years of history, I mean, in Catalonia history has weighed us a lot. Now, what I hope is that history does not prevent us from doing what we have to do in the present, and less an interpretation of some or others – it's the same – of history. You've been hurt, and if you've been hurt, listen to me, give it away, when I say I'm willing to do everything. I know, because I've told him many times in private... it hurt me so much that you agreed to go on a shift, because I didn't think it was a personal matter. I already know that, for this reason, it was necessary, because, if not, they did not accept it, but for us the presidency of the Generality are many things: it is a very long exile, it is the return of Tarradellas... Or, let's not imagine a president of the Generality before quarter when it is already and wants to go to re-election. And so, in this sense, I'd say I was willing to do anything. But if I hurt them, then I don't tell them. But, listen to me, he says: "No, it's that I wouldn't want to move forward, it's that now it's exceptional. Oh, demonis, exceptional! But 2012 has already advanced the elections, 2015 has brought them back! In order not to please him..., if he came to please him: all the legislatures in which he was president, and all this, if elected, you would advance the elections. You're doped up with the electoral advance. [[relays]] Not to please them! Always move them! And so..., and you tell me something that I can even hear and admire: your ability to persist, tenacity. Yes, I admire him. Now, from tenacity to obsessiveness there can be a very first step. And I think that at certain times you seem more obsessed than persistent. I wanted to say a few more things to him. Has anyone appreciated since Madrid, the civics? I believe that yes – yes –; there are people that yes – there are people that yes. Listen to me, and with this you allow me to do so to give you the reason: without the multitude of manifestations that we have had three, four years later, most likely from Madrid many people would not have understood what is going on here. But, therefore, do not say « to Madrid; Madrid is not a single person, Madrid is not Mariano Rajoy Brey, the Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, if you want; there are not two people, there are many people. Let us not say Madrid or Espanya or Catalunya as if it were a person, as if there were two lords who are scoundrels. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no. Listen, there's a very large Catalonia, there's a Madrid... or two men. The man's, naturally. Now, when I serve the women, they get angry too. Well, two men or two women. [[Rialles.]] One tries to be politically correct and so on. So, for that reason, we're not trying to get the part through the whole thing. Madrid..., there are many Madrids ; there is also the Madrid of Podemos, « if I am caught. Clear! And while there are Madrids. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sure. No, that's the way it is. And, therefore, you say: "They have not cried out to me. Listen to me, I... – now around to embolize, because I already know it's my specialty – I publicly asked President Rajoy who tricked you from the front of the Constitutional Court, with the Sixth Chambers, huh? He said: "If it were Rajoy, what would he do? I say: « Call President Mas. I know, because I don't really care, but I just... That's why we need to replace him, President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But let me tell you, a lot of people think about it, but not just here, but there. Now, I'll tell you too, the next question they're going to ask me in this chain, says: "Well, but But he's going to say no to everything, and then what does he do? Because it is true that the dialogs are very complicated; it has to be voluntary, but it is not only voluntary: good disposition. And I don't know if there's any good disposition on the part of everyone. You say that, as we're going through pants, maybe it's that our rhythm has also puzzled them a little. It's just that... this isn't... politics isn't a video game. I sometimes say that politics is very constrained by the rhythms of the new technologies; now people do zàping, and also wait, of politics, therefore, immediate results and answers, and they cannot be. Now, then, with a hundred and forty characters you have to do a doctoral thesis, and that's why it's always much better to say: "You're late. It is no longer necessary to discuss what you say, it is the same: "This up late. Or: "This is not for the king. I think politics is a little bit more than a video game. And, therefore, I would pray to you a little bit of..., a rhythm not so "sandungarian, because things went as they went. His interventions, sometimes, take an air that I can even hear, from a person who has his..., or has held his responsibility until now, an air that is tragic. And it's true that things haven't been right, and that they're pushing us all. Listen to me, imagine if they hold on to us who want an agreement when we see that those who have to talk first don't do it. And here I don't assign responsibilities. But imagine 'just the negit, the negit of many Catalans and Catalans who are seeing us, who only see policies that are messy, but the problems are not solved. That's not true. And, therefore, we do not pose ourselves more tragically than we do, we do not lose sight of the fact that the people who really suffer are those who do not, like us, have a concrete capacity for incidence. And I'm not just talking about those who are worried about the fit problem, I'm talking about those who are worried because they're not coming by the end of the month, because the cold will start and they won't be able to scalp. Let's think more about these. You say: "The process does not depend on me, but if there is no government, it is quiet. You're right. But, president, and presidential candidate, I'm telling you: you can hold a majority for the investiture, but you're not guaranteeing, as far as I know, a majority for the government, and that doesn't have to be good for Catalonia. Among other things, too, that's why we didn't want a resolution to be adopted before there was a president. Because we did this... here we go very innovative, with this thing in the pants, but on the previous screen it was, therefore, we give a mandate to the future government. Well, they're new, aren't they? Perhaps in the future regulation we will also talk about the fact that a future parliament will give mandates to a future government, even more so, that it doesn't seem that the government will be immediately after it but more there. [[Rialles.]] But it's not normal, we don't have to do things like that; we don't do things like that in Catalonia. And you can be right when you say it, and I ended up: "If the..., how is the dialogue with the Spanish State provoked? You're right; sometimes when one wants to dialogue and positions on the other hand are immobile, you have to take a little bit of strength. You're right. But he never skips the law. I think here, at this point, is when all the reason is lost. That's why we're, we're so against the decision they're making, because we think it's a profound mistake, a mistake that, at all events, the three arguments, because they've actually been in a situation that's impossible to manage democratically. When to the Government of Spain..., if it is someone outside of Spain..., tell them: « Why don't you open a negotiation? the first to say: "How do you want me to negotiate with someone who has already told me that it will not comply with the laws! They put them on the hook, it's a big mistake, and we, perhaps, wrongly, president and presidential candidate, thought that the only explanation for this mistake was to lie down on an investiture that, as you say yourself, looks as far as it is before yesterday. So, if we were to get away with what we approved yesterday, I think we'd all be in a lot better condition to force a dialog and, above all, to find solutions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.21.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell, president of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.22.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. President, members of the Government, illustrious Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, well, I was about to start the intervention saying that we are living in a tense atmosphere, but Mr. Iceta has helped to relax a little that atmosphere. Tanmateix, I have told you that, as it will not be a surprise to anyone, the vote of our parliamentary group will be denied its candidacy for the presidency of the Generality. And, despite the fact that we are in a particularly complex situation, and that the atmosphere in which this debate is actually taking place, this debate of investiture is not less than exceptional; of a band, threats and..., and fefarent threats of state intervention on which is the Catalan autonomy and this very Parliament and its decisions, and, of another band, decisions so..., or resolutions so significant as to have voted against our opinion yesterday, a resolution that indicates, poses a process of disconnection with the Spanish State, which is not trivial. Therefore, we are living a few moments of slow-down exchanges, and it is certain that we are in pre-electoral period, and we must not lose sight of this, between the Spanish State and what comes from here, from this Parliament. We've even heard some extemporaries that recommend the Spanish government to intervene in Catalonia with the same force as October 34, which, therefore, even though it's a rhetorical excess, does not cease to be significant and does not cease to be disturbing. But what we would like to point out, above all, is that this debate is produced with the relay that has often not just made clear in the feeling and in the way we speak in this chamber, with the relay of a great patience of the popular classes of this country. And in a situation, too, of disbelief of the institutions of which we do not seem to be fully aware. Look, today it has produced – and I think that, even if it is a fact, let's hope that this is true, it does not cease to be less significant than the situation that is experienced in some of the neighbourhoods of Barcelona – the death of one see in Sant Adrià in a confrontation, in a venial protest against illegal occupation of floors on the side, so, apparently, of the mafias that use them, that the logue, but that together demonstrate and call upon them the attention to the degree of social degradation that some of the bars and areas of our country are experiencing, and that indicate that the poor, inequality, patience and the poor are chronicling and are actually becoming a worrying element that we should never lose sight of at the time of discussing and addressing the political problems we are discussing here. In this context, therefore, we think that the candidacy proposed to us by Mr Arthur But we will not support it, of course, because we think that it does not have credibility in the first place, nor does it respond to the needs of the country, nor to the challenges that we have raised. We think that it is not at the height of the situation of social emergence and of the easing of the economy, nor of the empire of a democratic regeneration before the multiple scandals of corruption that shake public opinion, nor of the urgency, undisputed for us, of giving a democratic exit to the aspirations of the Catalan society for self-government and the problem of fit in the Spanish State. The first thing we would like to think about is knowing who the government needs Catalonia, who the government needs at these times Catalonia. And we are clear and assert that we believe that Catalonia needs, first of all, a government that is intended to rescue the citizenry. And it is all the contrary that they have done, forgive me to say so, the executable successes presided over by Mr Mas, which have been characterized by austerity policies and by retail policies, in other words, it is true, to European policies, to the policies implemented by the Spanish Government, but applied and developed with great conviction and with great intensity. And I want to remind you that – we were talking about five years ago – it was the government of the best, and this government of the best, so, it counted on the support that it counted, and it went down and even pretended to be a lewd advance of austerity policies throughout southern Europe. And, also, these governments, presided over by Mr. Mas, characterized by something that is convenient and that some may lose sight of in the political confrontation that we are experiencing these days, governments that have counted or developed a very important connection with the governments of the PP, with the government of the PP, in matters as significant as the Law of Tax Amnesties, for the defrauders; the dispositions referring to the fiscal instability, which have so much undermined the finances of the same Generality, or as the same labor reform. And let me, from this point of view, remember something that you have neither to see with Madrid nor with the prospect of independence, and that does not need any profound transformation. Until a few days ago, the judicial services of the Generality were acting as a particular accusation against the venerable activists of the general wave of 2012 who came out to defend the labor and social rights of the working people against the labor reform of the PP, which counted on the support of Convergence. Here we are talking about... this would have been... the withdrawal of these particular accusations, would have been for us more convincing than an hour and a half of speeches about the candidate's social taranna. ( Some applause.) Well, I'd like to ask, and in this case it's not a rhetorical question, huh? In this perspective of new government which paper will play labor reform? The labor reform that you approved on your day with the PP will be part of the..., or should you be part of the legal arsenal of labour relations of a future Catalan republic, or not? Because about this issue yesterday they didn't talk about it, we didn't feel anything about it. We think that a government that responded to the current situation would need to develop a real plan of action to deal with the growing inequalities, which existed before, and a poor woman who is chronically poor and who is spreading from the most punishing barrels to the middle classes of our peoples and cities; a deeply feminized poor woman, a poor woman who has many times the face of a woman's face and who has the face of the monomarental families who have faced situations of enormous difficulty, especially the precariousness of the labour market that affects women's labour, a poor woman who is also fleshing herself on the infantile child and who is actually a mortgage for the future of the country. Today, in Barcelona – and I'm not going to pounce on you with figures, which today many, however – are going to be mentioned – in the capital of this country, the difference in life expectancy between the richest barrels in the city and the poorest is eleven years of life expectancy difference due to social conditions. Therefore, we think that we are ahead of a situation, really, that requires strong and determined action on the part of a government. And we think, in this sense, that it is indefatigable, among the measures of shock, to implement a guaranteed income of citizenship. I'll talk to you about it yesterday. Yesterday, Mr. Mas spoke about it, but he talked about it with so many conditions that we don't know if it is ultimately about a citizen's guarantee income as a subjective right or as an eventuality that would take away presuppositional availabilities. It is another question, neither rhetorical, that we would like to be able to discuss and debate here. Finally, let us think that there should be a government that defends the public services firmly, in the place of debt, as has been the case with Lleida's health consortium, of this project, that we would like to know whether it is going on or on, and, from this point of view, it would be a pleasure for us in this Parliament to go beyond the neo-lingua of not naming things by their name, instead of talking about privatizations, talking about externalizations, strategic alliances and divestitures. No, no, We have a project on the side of the table that has been widely contested for people, for social movements and for Lleida's citizenship, which is to aggravate, and which is emblematic, from the point of view of health and the Catalan health system. And we would like to know – another question that is not rhetorical – what remains of Lleida's health consortium. And, instead, also, of misselling – it has been talked about here, there has been some element – some valuable resources, moaning for the Government of the Generality, such as a company such as Aigues Ter Llobregat. Yesterday the Lord But spoke with a certain inexperience, because this language is not very frequent, the common good, which is the first time we have heard the Lord But talk about water as a common good. Okay. It's all right, huh? No, it's good that the language of new social movements comes, let's say, to the more traditional political formations – it's already good. No one has a copyright of these things, so good that we all talk and understand that it's the common good. But we would like to know how this common good is managed, from the point of view of the defense of public services, from such important individuals as those who have been the object of privatizations, of malsale, and of malsale with a truly ridiculous spectacle from the point of view of a legal nyap of how the Generality has operated this privatization. And we think that it is a government of the Generality that, naturally, does not only make policies of containment of the poor and of social emergencies, but that gives a tom to the situation that sees the country and that promotes an economic model change, leaving the speculative economy backward. Indeed, Mr. Mas spoke of it yesterday, which might allow the speculative economy to stand in the way. I, from this point of view, another question – nor rhetorical –: what about Barcelona World? Why, if this isn't a speculative economy, if this isn't a casino economy, someone comes and explains it to us, huh? We would like to know whether the new model that you imagine for the country actually has to do with this type of economy..., with this type of casino economy, with its environmental impacts; how we would like to know – we would like to know – what idea it is..., and we think that it is fundamental and that it is indestriable from all social justice policy, indestriable, the policy of environmental justice, and decisions or perspectives as the tract of the territory, that involve aggressive projects like these, or the policy of fracking, or other policies that have to do with the full hydrology or with respect for the environment, therefore, it is for us that it is oral and it is defined as the type of government that this country needs. Or elements that are also so fundamental to social cohesion as educational reform, as educational policy. Yesterday we didn't hear about some things that seemed important to us. To us, it seems very good that the Wert law is disobeyed. They'll find us next door to disobey Wert's law. We are concerned that we may disobey the Wert Law, if all or only in part. And we would also be concerned, and we would like to know, for example, what happens to educational concerts with sex-secreting schools, if in the future Catalonia it is intended to continue to sign concerts with Opus or with the legionaries of Christ, with public money, and to keep them with public money. This is real debate about the type of government, about the profile that we need to clarify, and that we raise as a political debate of foundations. And therefore, I tell you that, for a government of these characteristics, a government that wants to respond to these social needs, this need for cohesion, justice and rebalancing of the country, we think that it is a government that needs, therefore, to face the funding objective of the Generality, effectively, working to restructure its debt, which is today, mostly, in the hands of the Spanish Government. So when it comes to negotiating, if you want negotiation, here we have one, direct and important. Most of the government's debt is now in the hands of the Spanish government. Seeing the tickets, of course, naturally that we should excavate the Generalitat tickets, fem..., looking for new tax figures. And through a progressive taxation and that starts to fight... – what was not mentioned yesterday –, to fight decisively against tax fraud. That in this, too, disjointedly, Catalonia assembles very much in Spain, doesn't it? And we have the same tax fraud buddies as the rest of the state. In this sense, neither did we feel in his, let's say, drawing on the new taxation he imagines... – he told us, and that he worried us – that it would be more than a taxation than a fraud that is not based on trust in taxpayers. Home, the taxpayers of this country have a... – the most important, because middle classes, the workers, these have no escape, eh? But those who have the opportunity – they have a curious tendency to make Andorra their homeland. Then think... [[some applause]] that it would be important for a government of the Generality or a candidate for the Presidency of the Generality to make commitments to this when it is neither a banality nor an anecdote, tax fraud or the evasion of money outside our country. But it's funny that all these things that I'm putting up, and that you, in a way, collected generically into your program yesterday, so, finally, you were putting in a menu of this, which was the 2012 parliamentary agreement. Here's everything you told us yesterday. It's here, in the 2012 parliamentary agreement. The non-realised agreement of the 2012 Legislature. Then, of course, one question is why if in three years they haven't been able to do this now in divided months and in conditions in which we are living now? And why, therefore, for example, things like the Catalan Institute of Finance and its development, like a public bank of..., which you actually allow, and it is a fundamental element if we want to have a public service of credit and savings to support businesses, to support the peppers and the autonomes..., why didn't they happen in this sense? Or the electoral law, before it is thought, the electoral law, effectively, as it is, therefore, favors representative distortions in this chamber, as we have now. These measures of a progressive government, of a government to the height of the need of the country, we believe that we could only pull them forward and negotiate them, in their case, a net government. And the problem is that yesterday, actually, it wasn't about corruption. It was about transparency, in the abstract; but, listen, we are ahead of a situation, from this point of view, exceptional. From the Pujol saga to the recent disqualification of Mr. Crespo – he relied on the confidence of Mr. Mas, huh? , which I remember – from the Palau case, which I have the misfortune to know because, as President of the FAV, we were a private accusation and we unravelled, we helped to unravel this illegal funding scandal. To the regulars of cases that point... - point, eh? It's true, we always accept the presumption of innocence, but let's just say that the clues that were put on the wall of the table start to be, like a few, disturbing, huh? – that aim at illegal financing at copying commissions that are rebutted to changing public works contracts to well-known and well-detected enterprises, and to family friends. All of this draws a _frame, a square, really disturbing and really problematic, because we are not, already, ahead of a multiplicity of winged trees, of unrelated cases, of taques – even though there were many – but we are, really, boasting what is a practically system of governance, finance and governance, where private elements and enterprises can determine public expenditure as a function of a corrupt relationship with the rulers. And that's a background problem. That's a state problem. It's a governance problem. And it's not a minor problem or ailing cases, judicializing one another. That is why I would say to you that a party that is up, candidate, a party, the party leader, who is up in these conditions at the investiture debate, therefore, listen, has two things to do: from a band, let's fit in, let's say, philosophically, the judicial responsibilities that derive from all these investigations; but from a political point of view – from a political point of view – "in a normal country, as the friends of Nimnium say – "in a normal country – a party like this goes into opposition for a good season" [[some applause]] , try to refer, if you can, try to recommend's, if you can't, but can't aspire to rule a country and, still less, to drive neither more nor less than a democratic transition as it stands. In this sense, we think that a match of these characteristics... – which is ultimately what's in the Junts for the Yes package, right? The compromise was not just candidate number four, but a government with a majority of Convergence – we think that a party like this cannot be brought back to the head of the Generality and, even less so, as you said, it has the task of piloting a transformation of the country as it is proposed. From this point of view, we make it clear: we are neither capfified nor have any personal problems with Mr. But – he knows – but let's just say that we are not, either, willing to enter into a negotiation or a debate about making a visit between Convergence advisors. We do not have the vocation to direct the human resources of Democratic Convergence. We raise our criticism and our refusal to give continuity to the Head of the Generality to Mr. Mas as linked to a political formation, to a project, to a trajectory, to a philosophy, to plans, to a lack of credibility and to a political criticism, strictly political. And in this sense, we think the problem is this background: who is it that you want to bring to the head of our institutions. We think it would be a mistake to try to think that the issue of the process, the name of the process, lies not only with a person, but with a party, and that the problem we have raised is not from this background. Who wants to spread mystifications or who makes illusions of respect, therefore, listen, for us will soon be an act of faith. For us, who come, many of us, of the venous movements, of the working movement, we know that life is hard and those of acts of faith – in short – we reserve them for those who go to Lourdes. In politics, we're after something that's a lesson from life, and it's that while, as a political writer said, while we don't invent the candidometer, eh? Which is the machine to measure sincerity, we have to stick to the facts, and the facts are the ones we've lived and the ones we have. Five years ago they had a government, they had a settlement, and now we have a political debate and we have to guide ourselves in the light of what is there; indeed, as the Lord said, "in the light of what is there, not what some would dream of what is there. And, indeed, the problem is posed in terms, many times, therefore, or in this case, of credibility: what is the... – it has been raised here in some way – what is the Lord But what do we have to believe? The government of the best? Or the almost Social-Democrat who presented himself yesterday, making his speech asking for the investiture? Okay. We think it gives us the impression – and I'm not angry – that what we have, above all, is a candidate – and behind it, a formation – that desperately needs to retain power. Because in such a complex situation as we are living, of changes, of new configurations, of crisis at the level of the State, of possible social and political crises, of destabilization to all the south of Europe, everyone who has a certain political experience knows that it is better to face a situation of these, above all, with history and with the problems that there is Democratic Convergence, holding in hand the strides of the Government, which is linked to opposition, with everything that will come to the world. In this sense, it is not that we follow as Sant Tomás, that wants to put the saying to the sore, but, and we would not exaggerate, as Mr.Iceta would say, that he is willing to accept it all so as to continue to the government, but God does not—God does. I would almost say that Mr.Iceta was right when the other day, in a famous phrase reproduced by the diaries, he said that they saw the draft resolution that was presented yesterday, « to some of his advisers if 'lsvan... – forgiving the expression, therefore, of Mr.Iceta – « if 'lsvan pose by tie. I'm afraid it's true – I'm afraid it's true – they know the history, they know the staff, they know the trajectory. And in this sense, therefore, our trust and credibility that inspires us is zero. We think that at this point a government is needed, a government that was able to face courageously and responsibly – and responsibly –, and with a project and full transitable route, a process constitute. We need a government capable of promoting, in fact, a process that constitutes; a process, effectively, national, not subordinate, and that gives rise to the democratic aspirations of the people of Catalonia, but which knows, at the same time, to weave complicitys with social struggles and aspirations for change that also cross the Spanish society. And from this point of view we answer the question that is ugly before: yes, there are people in Spain who listens to us, our companies, the people of Podemos, the people of the United Left, the people of the Aragonese Chunta, the people of Compromís. There are a lot of people, from the state, who also aspire to democratic and progressive changes as we aspire to, and who listen to us, and that we have worked because they are listening to us, and that these people not only listen to us, but, often in a difficult and hostile environment, defend the right to self-determination and free expression of Catalan citizenship. And for us it's a pride to say that this is our people – it's a pride to say that this is our people – that they don't just listen to us, but they fight with us and fight alongside us and with the same dream of emancipation. It is indisputable – it is indisputable – that the social cohesion based on equity and the structures that vertebrate the country, these structures that privatization policies have gone through overwhelmingly and affluent – sanitation, public education, social protection systems – is the condition for sustaining a process of empowerment by citizens. An impoverished, atomized population, with families waiting for a court committee to denoise them, or who go to the food bank, is hardly likely to discuss the process, hardly. Because the sense of openness that imposes daily survival hardly allows important parts of the population to rise from their condition and can make political and can enter into a dynamic that needs consciousness, organization, mobilization, taking responsibility, participation. This is what we are talking about, in a process, in a democratic process, in a process of taking over the citizenry. That's why we didn't say when we had independence we'd do great. It is that in order to get to any democratic tape it is necessary from now on, with the constraints that we have, for the limited and trying to expand them, to build the social cohesion and unity of society, and the vast majority – and the vast majority – that defend the rights and freedoms, and the advances and progress of this majority, in order to go further. Otherwise, we won't make it. But it is not less certain that the political and institutional framework emerges from the Spanish Transition, the political architecture – monarchical, bipartisan – that we have known and that it has remained since the 78th is now irremovably exhausted. The ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Statute – which has been so much talked about here – certified, in fact, not only the disclaimer of the Constitutional Court, but something much deeper, something really much deeper: it certified the rupture of the territorial pact between parliaments and the recognition of popular suffrage as a source of legitimacy. For the first time, an institution for parliament, for the vote of parliaments, for its pact, and for the expressed will of a people in a referendum, was imposed. And that's the principle of the 78th covenant fictitious. Not only the delegitimization or lack of credence or suspension on the equanimity of the Constitutional Court, but a point of non-return that demonstrates the exhaustion of a whole political regime. That's the reality. From this point of view, the rise of sovereignism that we have known in recent years, therefore, and the timing that has begun to fix this sovereignism, the timing of a Catalan republic, are part of this march, the mark of a political crisis that has gone much further than Catalonia, which has to see with all social relations and with difficulty, the impossibility of this political architecture in order to intertwine the contradictions that the crisis has revealed. From this point of view, it is not only that we have friends outside of Spain, but that what is going on in Catalonia has to see with the general waves, has to see with the tides, has to see with the defense of sanitation in Madrid, has to see with all the democratic struggles and aspirations that are draining this mark and that are filling in the exhaustion of this political mark of 78. Therefore, processes constitute, yes, here; processes constitute also Espanya's business. Complicity here and there, because we need to advance folds to get our respective freedoms. What is happening in Catalonia, as I said, is inextricable from what is happening in the rest of the Spanish State, but also in Greece, Portugal, and even Italy, because the large financial and industrial corporations that run Europe have imposed on the countries of the South a painful policy of internal devaluation, which the Spanish Government has applied or which the Government of Convergence has applied. And these policies have undermined public services, social protection mechanisms, and have tended to dislodge representative institutions and stifle the national sovereignty of our peoples. As long as we're talking about sobriety: climbing the national sobriety of our peoples. This has been the case with the memoranda of the troika for Greece, the policies of the austerity dictatorships for Lisbon, of Article 135 of the Constitution, voted by the last government of the PSOE... And that shows that constitutional reforms can be very hasty, huh? : There's not much to do with a trick of someone who's influential because a whole parliament is knee-deep in front of the dictatorships of the big European corporations, huh? The Spanish Constitution is reformable; it was demonstrated by the reform of Article 135. The ultimate – the ultimate – is that it was reformed against the interests of the social majority of this country. And we are also shown by the Free Trade Agreement, the TTIP, which is now under negotiation between the European Union and the United States; a free trade treaty that secretly negotiates the European institutions and the United States and represents an unheard-of threat – and it is curiously not mentioned in this chamber – for the social, labour, environmental rights and the same legislative capacity as the governments and parliaments of Europe, and a treaty that, like the PP, as well as the City, does not seem to pass on to the masses of people here or to some people here, because in the European Parliament the party of the Lord But, like the PP, is in the process of negotiation. I mean, here we have a theatricalization of epic confrontations, but it turns out that some of those who face here in Europe come back and defend the same policies. [[applause]] antisocials and counters to the sovereignty of the people. In Catalonia, for many reasons, this phase of crisis and politics has been read in national clau, as it could not be in any other way. In part, therefore, logically, because the same PP government has centrifuged the state's deficit to autonomy and accentuated the feeling of hardship. And Convergence and Union, in its time, in its successive governments, has been derived from policies of retailing and privatization, to which, for links and ideological reasons, it was already oriented since the arrival of the Government of the best. We have, therefore, had a centralistic relegation of the State under the PP government, but also, on the part of Democratic Convergence, an attempt to recompose a free-falling social and electoral influence, aiming to stifle the complicity of the crisis in a national conflict stripped of social content. September 27th has been a little bit like this. But the social conflict, when it's compressed and loose, ends up surging and ends up manifesting itself sometimes in a confused way in other words. And the uncertainty and anguish of the broad heads of the population have polarized around the perspective of independence, which has ended up appearing as a possible utopia. And, on the other hand, popular sectors, sectors of the working class, the socially worst sectors of the metropolitan area, have tended to express their discontent, and also their feeling of exclusion, in front of a speech every time more plaguing, clinging many times to the emotional bonds with Spain. But we can't resolve this situation in the country if we don't want just a fracture that everyone says and says: "There is, there is no and it can be, if we don't address the issue in democratic terms, going beyond, going beyond just and avoiding like the worst peril confrontation in identity terms and understanding that social cohesion is what will allow us to place in its place, in the land of political debate, strictly political options, "independence, yes or independence, no. On 27 September, in a way, we could say that Catalonia voted 'yes, but no', but no. It gave a majority to independent parties, but it did not give a majority to a plebiscite – that independent parties raised these elections as such. We are, if we stay here, in an infinite situation of empire, it is to say that independence has the strength to make a pulse to the State, but probably not enough to win it – as will be seen by the proper days –; the defenders of the established order, of the constitutional order, are strong enough to block their initiations, but not to contain the decay of the regime nor to silence the voice of the people of Catalonia. For this reason, we reject from one gang the immobility of those who defend the constitutional order and the Constitution of 78 in a fetishist manner – one, sometimes, when they hear of the Constitution of 78, has the impression that Moses lowered from Sinai carrying in one hand the Gods commands and in the other the Constitution of 78, because it seems that it is a sacramental thing and that he sees directly from a divisive bond. We don't believe it – we don't believe it. On the contrary, we think that this Constitution and this established order can no longer fit these democratic aspirations of Catalan society and that, therefore, we can give them a way out. But we don't have to let ourselves get flushed for the adventure either, because there's no democratic warrant...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.23.0	Mr. Rabell, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.24.0	... – yes, I ended up – for a unilateral disconnection or for a covert unilateral declaration of independence. We do not accept the policy of provoking the State – to think that as worse, better –, hoping that a sudden reaction will boost the independence sentiment. There's a risk of a fracture in terms of identity. And both postures, which are native to each other, contribute to this situation. Therefore – I finish – we need a comprehensive and coherent route that recovers the social majority by the right to decide, a decided social turn and the setting up of a reference as at the right time for the recognition of Catalonia as a political subject and to generate, at the same time, a democratic mandate, determining, in view of the new configuration not only of Catalonia, but of the whole Spanish State. The question we ask ourselves is: can a government rise from this chamber to the height of these reptiles? Well, that's what I'm about to see. But in any case, we are not convinced, it will not be a government presided over by Mr.Artur Mas nor a government of Convergence, it will not be a government based on an unfeasible full path and lack of a democratic mandate. To all this we say no. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.25.0	To answer, the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, I will try to answer the main questions you raised in your intervention. If I didn't get it wrong, the first part of you dedicated it, above all, to criticizing austerity policy, the retail... He said that this, therefore, was indeed an evil that had been inflicted by certain powers at European level, that had been transferred to many economies, to many countries... I would like to reflect on it next. I am saying this because I, this speech, in the last three, four years, listened to it many times precisely from those who had previously been in its place; concretely, from Mr Herrera, I felt it drawing from time to time. And, as I see it, there was a speech that in the end did not have a great acceptance among the people. You have insisted a lot on this, you have years insisting on this complaint, but when you have run for office, you have not had a great success. And they had made it, therefore, the main flag. Mr. Herrera was like a hammer species that was constantly getting spicy in the same direction– I remember very well, because we had many sessions in this sense–, and the truth is that he didn't come much from a point of view of the impact... And not because the problem doesn't exist, that it exists, but because people don't believe, Mr. Rabell, or many people don't believe that this is the responsibility of the Government of Catalonia. And you know that. Before you, Mr. Rabell, he was talking to us about a "honest meter." I ask you, Mr. Rabell, to apply it to this concrete subject. Apply the candidometer to this concrete topic of detail and austerity. And you know perfectly well – because, more than that, we have explained it many times, but even though we haven't explained it a lot, you know it too – that the Government of Catalonia, as the funding model is – that, certainly, at this time, we are not responsible for it, as in 2009–, as is this funding model and as is required by the objectives of the deficit – and they say they impose, on the part of the Spanish State, because there is no room for negotiation – the Catalan institutions, all of them, also the local administrations, and, obviously, the Government of the Generality, have no room for manoeuvre. Moreover, the margin of manoeuvre that we have had has been applied precisely to make the contrary of what you have denounced. Instead of completing the necessary criteria of austerity and disability, we have gone further in spending precisely to avoid harming the public health services of this country and public health policies; among others, social services, disabled people, the elderly, the most sensitive sectors, the fight against the poor, education, public health, security and long-term care. You know perfectly well that our margin of manoeuvre is practically zero, and what we have been able to use, we have used it exactly in the opposite direction that you denounce. We've spent more than we've been allowed to spend and we've spent more on these things that I've been giving them. There were presuppositions for the PIRMI before, and it turns out that now is when there are more. There were different governments in other times and there was money in PIRM for people in great need, but now they're putting in more money, and now they're putting in more money for school scholarships and for the cook. And of these fooders, or of these fooders, now they put themselves in for families to the hundred, that's to say, they don't cost them; before no, before they are made to pay the families, even the most vulnerable. Not now. So, shall we put the candid tape on the way, Mr. Rabell? I pose him... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, of course, you will have your arguments, but I also have mine. And now I'll set another example. Who was one of the great champions in Europe who had to balance austerity policies with growth policies? Who came to the presidency of the French Republic with a big flag saying: « Austerity is over, now growth is coming? And that's what he said? France. I of France, who? The Socialist Party. And what happened? They did exactly the opposite: austerity policies wrong and right. But, of course, this example certainly does not serve them well because they will say that this is the Socialist Party. Now I will give you another example: who was the great adalil of the fight against the whole of the European Union on the issue of austerity and deficit compliment policies? Syriza. Great flags, great speeches, great wrists to Brussels, great wrists to Berlin. What happened next? What happened to Greece? Turns out a party broke up, Syriza, on this issue, but the ones that went on were back in the election, won, ruled, and applied nine and tougher austerity policies than before. Now, of course, if Syriza and Tsipras apply them, then it is apologetic; but if we apply them from the Government of Catalonia, then we are guilty, when the situation is exactly the same. Pardon me, worse for Catalonia, because Greece, at least, has a state with which it can go to defend directly before the European institutions and Catalonia does not. We have to go through Madrid, look for on. It is to say, that we are more weak than Greece, in this sense, and you accuse us more than not the others, which obviously excuse them. And that, Mr. Rabell, went through the "honest meter," he can't stand the first minute. Can't take the first minute, that. Now, you, over and over again, go on like this. Instead... They have right, obviously, to the criticisms that are fan of the Government, but on the subject of funds, which is what I have described, I sincerely believe that parties like his, that they want the situation to improve and that the finances of the Generality to be close to a country like Catalonia, you should put the saying to the nafra and know that the problem is not with the orientation of one government or another, that it is easy to guide it like this. The problem is that in Catalonia there is a huge fiscal deficit, continuing over time, and that is what is literally limiting the capacity for public action. And limiting it a lot. You think that the last government of the Generalitat, with much less money than there were before and without the possibility to be indebted that it is not through the structures of the FLA in Madrid, under these conditions, the social assumptions that there has been in these last years in the agreements between Convergence and Unity of the time and the Republican Left, the social assumptions of the Generalitat are higher in percentage than ever. So, the problem is we don't have him here. The priority we've already put in, more than ever. The problem we don't have here, the problem we have: who are the financial capacities and taxes of the Catalonian Generalitat without depending on Madrid. That's the big problem. And until we identify this as the problem we will discuss here all that you want; you will continue to make these speeches that you have done to date. People will be written in myths, because people are smart and they have already seen that the problem we don't have here, the problem we have outside. And then here we're wrong about certain decisions, sure. One another. Because you used to give me some examples that would give me a certain grace. He was talking about water management, and he was giving me the subject of privatization. I ask myself: you who have been ruling in the Metropolitan Area during a stack of years, and still govern there, in very sensitive municipalities, starting in Barcelona, don't you know that water management is in private hands? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, they'd want to change it, and they've never changed it, and they're carrying more than twenty-five years of rule. So, curious influence, because in some moments the municipal governments of Barcelona only depend on you. If you weren't there, there wasn't a majority. But, of course, then private water should be a minor issue. It's not okay, Mr. Rabell, that's it. It's not worth criticizing others for what you do yourself. You'll tell me: the ATLL theme. You're right, you're right. Do you think there was any explicit will to privatize, according to you, that is not exactly this, this water issue up high? There was no way. It was done out of need and in order to be able to allocate money to social policies at a time of obligation on the part of the Spanish Government. It was 1,300_million euros, and this 1,300_million euros, if it could not have been obtained here, would have gone into more detail. Now, of course, if you lack what is comptability, money, what is public management, etcetera, etcetera, then, then, then, you yourself; but as you have ruled a pile of years in many places, you surely need to know how to count it, all that. And that's all it was for. And proof of that is that in many other governments where there was also Convergence, it was not only not privatized this service, as you say, but precisely those governments that set it up as public service. And they talk to me, for example, about educational concerts at certain schools, and I ask myself: when you ruled the Generality for seven years, why did you keep them? And they've been renovating them. Yes, Mr. Rabell, yes; it is hard to listen to this, surely, when it is done according to five speeches. Because it's easy to make speeches, but they can't stand the slightest examination of reality. You were inviting us to take a look at reality. So, do it, please! When you had a chance to change this and had the paella for the handle, you didn't give it priority. They didn't just do it, but, more than that, they renewed it. These things... and I'm talking about two things that you... for you, have been very sensitive. He also told me about Barcelona World. I only ask them one thing, beyond the labels. They only ask them to wander there, to the territories, to Camp Tarragona, and to talk to the people and to talk to all the people. And they ask them, too, one more thing: they ask them to analyze what happened 20 years ago with the theme of Port Adventure and who were the reviews there. And they were more or less the same. Now, I'm asking right now at Camp Tarragona whether you've served Port Aventura or not for something. To see how many people will defend them Port Adventure, which also sold as a great aggression to the territories. And now I'm not saying that the new government of Catalonia needs to defend Barcelona World, I'm not saying that, no, I'm not saying that, because, listen to me, it's obvious that the own government of Catalonia is a government where there will be different people, there will be different parties, there will be different balances and we will have to talk about everything. But, as a matter of fact, this reflection I can do, because there is a territory that is also defending this. Among the other main defenders of this territory, which some value must have for you, if they are democratically elected, as is the case, right? With the majorities they have, they defend it – they defend it. Also listen to them, before taking definitive decisions and before putting down labels as easy as they have put themselves today through their words. He was also speaking to us, Mr.Rabell, about the subject of..., well, some things that have been done in Madrid: presuppositional stabilization, the subject of labour reform... The subject of presuppositional stabilization was linked to what he had previously given him. The subject of labour reform: I just want to ask you a question, you will speak later: did you endorse the previous model in this labour reform that led to shutting down thousands and thousands of companies and to the highest turnout in the Spanish State from one year to another? Hey, what's up? Now it's very easy to criticize this, of labor reform. And the previous work mark how it worked? If you look at 2009, what happened – 2009 –, concretely this year, you will see that, very long, it is the year in which it was best to deal with everything, in Catalonia, that we certainly did not govern ourselves, and in Spain, that the Socialist Party ruled. It was the year of the great dawn. Brutal, the push was that, with a different legal framework than we have now. He didn't, that job mark, did he? He couldn't help it. You will tell me: "This is not the best of the world. Even so I can say it's very painful, and I could say it: "Listen to me, let's talk about it. Now, to speak of a work mark, we have to make a first decision, it's: one day we can do it in this Parliament or not? Because, for the time being, the only thing we can do is go there, as a complement, to Madrid, as a complement, never directing the government, never directing the Spanish Parliament, and seeing how we get out of some negotiation, which is not decisive, many times, on our part. The big thing is, one day we can make a job or a job relationship from this Parliament, and then we can argue with each other, but we don't have to depend on a lot of others? That's the big deal, Mr. Rabell. And that's obvious that we can't do it right now. You were also talking to me about the guaranteed income of citizenship, if I don't recall it badly, and you told me that we put in a lot of precautions. Just one, Mr. Rabell, just one, just one precaution, which I think you're going to share, what is it: do you hear we're not going to fool people again? Not us, huh? Because we didn't want to vote for it, but do you hear we're not going to fool people again what it was like with the Dependency Law? Because with the Law of Dependency it was promised a lot of things, and a lot of money, and a lot of performance and subjective rights, and at the time of truth, what? If I've seen you, I don't remember. This is what the Spanish State does with the Law of Dependency: If I've seen you I don't remember, you'll be spoiled, you'll be fighting against the vulnerable and needy people of your country or your territory, you'll be giving your face, even though you don't have the money to do it. I do the law, I'm very good, fantastic, all very nice, and then I'll give my face to another, even though I'm sick and yet people's problems aren't solved, and the most vulnerable and sensitive people with the most need. The only precaution is this; it's to say, we make the guaranteed income of citizenship and do it in such a way that what we say later we do and we can pay for sure, because we address people who really need it, and with these people, Mr. Rabell, I'm sure you share this, you can't play with false expectations. That's why I introduced that morning, because it's the morning that all the rule of minimally will be and coherent and responsible to introduce before approving programs that involve a lot of public resources that, at this time, Mr.Rabell, with the extent that these problems require, Catalonia doesn't have them. I said yesterday that I could keep them with a different situation than we have now and from an institutional point of view, but with the self-government we have now and with the self-government in finance, this is clearly out of our grasp, from a point of view of the joint. Now, this program is ready to guide you, so it's in our governance program: guaranteed citizenship. We do this simply by addressing people who know they are vulnerable, who really need it, and who need an answer, who actually follow an effective answer, not that I was left with a promise in the air, or even with a law that is not then fulfilled. Because in these laws nothing happens if they are not complete. If the law of dependence is not completed by the Spanish government? Ah! That's not happening, that's not illegal. Isn't the Constitutional Court's judgements on the 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF complete? It's all right, that, as the Spanish government does, the law and sentences of the Constitutional Court can be overturned. That was the approach. Well, two or three things to finish, which you also mentioned. I was talking about new taxation, new tax figures. Let's leave it a point of memory, only: in these three years in Catalonia, more taxes have been created on us than in the thirty years, and a government presided over for me, and in many sensitive issues from the social point of view, and for social purposes, and for environmental purposes, taxes that no one had ever dared to create and now we have them. What happens is that most of us have suspicions. Where? In the Constitutional Court. By whom? From the current Spanish government. Impost on bank deposits: it was done in this last legislature, here with the explicit support of Esquerra Republicana, who always insisted that this was a central point that had to be done in the previous legislature, and it was done. The deposit on the empty floors was also made. The levy on the fuel use of certain aircraft was also made. The tax on the production costs of nuclear energy was also done. And some more. And, therefore, Mr. Rabell, we have done more than anyone, and not precisely because this is our usual star program. But before the circumstances of the country, we were going to act in this way. And I recommend one thing – I almost ask it – which is that, if you have time, you read all the work that has been done with respect to what is to be the new own heritage or the new Catalan public heritage. There's a lot of work done by first-level people. It's worth looking at the background, before putting down easy labels that then can't stand the slightest analysis. Do it and you will see where you are going, and you will see the degrees of demand with which the theme of the new Catalan heritage is being raised. And the degrees not only of demand, but also the degrees of modernity. It's not about stopping chasing, it's about not always chasing those who pay almost always, or always, that's what happens, and stopping looking for those who never pay. It's about that. And if you read it carefully, you'll see that this is exactly where it went – that I assume you have to agree. Three final messages, quick, before a definitive valuation. You were talking about the issue of party finances, specifically Convergence, you said "to change public works. I come back to them, he said: I have appeared many times in this Parliament, I explained right and wrong, and I said to them – and I say again – there is no link between the financing of this party and the public work, there is no one. I've always said something else to them, and with this you can be more in agreement or less in agreement, but it's between legal marks – it's between legal marks; it's true that Convergence, and it's not the only party in this sense, has had private contractors, and some of them public works contractors, through their foundations, between legal marks; we haven't just explicitly recognized it, it's that this information is everywhere, they can consult it wherever they are. From the outset, every year it is sent to the Court of Auditors, which they know perfectly well. And if that doesn't suit you, you change the law and we'll adjust to the other law. Just as when he said, "There can be no anonymous donations, so it's over. Just like when he said: "There can be no direct contributions from companies to political parties, they ended up directly in the parties, but it was not prohibited through foundations. If you want to ban through foundations, it's forbidden, and then you won't. So, Mr.Rabell, I'll go back to explaining it– I'll go back to explaining it– now, I can explain it twice, I can explain it a hundred times, I'll go back to explaining it, and you can tell us that this is different. Well, then, listen, there will be one word against the other, and obviously, that there are legal proceedings, yes, that is true, there are legal proceedings, but I remember perfectly how in this very Parliament a few years ago he already talked about this subject. It's been two years and no one's ever been able to prove it. Won't it be that he didn't show himself to be king because there's no king? Because it's been looking at for two years, huh? Mr. Rabell. We're the main stakeholders, as you'll understand, to stop being under suspicion, because God, man, when they're accusing you for so long, maybe someday they'll prove something, right? 'Cause you're still feeling suspicious. Maybe. Because, if not, you're in a total defense _frame, in the end, total and absolute. You said: "You want to keep power at any price. He said that textually. I don't know if he meant it, but he said it like that. I want to answer it and, more importantly, I think the arguments I'm going to give you can't tell if you share them, but how can you understand them, can you? Fixi's, Mr.Rabell, if I had turned the power to any price, the year 2010, that we had a first pact with the Socialist Party for a while and then with the People's Party, I would not have called the November 2012 elections, because we had sixty-two Members here and parliamentary stability. I mean, the best of the mons, from this point of view. And in these conditions and putting in danger the government – the government means the exercise of power, according to its expression – is calling for elections. And it's true, we were losing deputies and we made another majority, we did it with the Republican Left. And we did this three years ago, but Mr. Iceta said it before – he was right – with the members of Convergence and Union of this last legislature and the PSC, for example, we also had parliamentary disenfranchisement, and it was not difficult to get it. Hello, Mr. Iceta? I'm right now, aren't I? Thank you very much. See, Mr. Rabell? Mr. Iceta gave us the reason. [[Rialles.]] We could have had it with them, he certifies it himself, and what have we done? Pulling forward, that's to say, putting in danger preserving power. If there's anything you can't tell us, Mr. Rabell, it's that we've done everything to preserve power, because I'd say it's more than the opposite: we've done a lot to keep it, like no one else. I think I can say that no one has ever played it in a government that puts power at risk. There may be people who wander before this statement, because they will say: "Home, perhaps we are in front of people who do not touch all the wishes. Mr. Iceta might say that. Hey, yes, Mr. Iceta, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] But, Mr. Rabell, really, huh? , that if it were to preserve power, I assure you that we would have done other things much more comfortable, much quieter, much more stable, even at the personal level, not to say at the political level, etc. It wasn't about that, it was about something else, Mr. Rabell, it was about to listen to the people. We played it because we listened to people, and we didn't just listen to them, but we listened to them and acted accordingly, and that's why we put so many things of personal or political convenience in danger. Exactly the opposite of how you put it. Finally, you said: "Let's go to a process they constitute. Totally fine. You also said to me: "We clearly defend the right to decide. I know – I know – and you've been there in the decisive moments, but you also think one thing, and I'm not saying that you're gonna stop defending this, so let's be clear, huh? Because I'm sure there's more country base here than there is on the independence bet, obviously. In this very Parliament we could count this: for independence we are seventy-two, for the right to decide for sure that we would be eighty-three. Now, look at one thing: how long can we be proclaiming the right to decide without exercising it? Ask yourself this question, because what we wanted to do is not just say that we have it, but that we have exercised it. That's the theme that's been the whole fold-out. And obviously, when you exercise a right and not just proclaim it, so things happen, it's not neutral or free. But, exercising it, we have seventy-two deputies and deputies in this Parliament in favor of an independent state for Catalonia, exercising it. And for a little while we don't get past the 50_per_cent barrier of votes, exercising it, this right to decide, not just proclaiming it. Well, then, you said to me, "There are people in Spain who buy this from us, who defend us, who believe in it. On the 20th of December we count them, we count them all folds and see what correlation of forces there is in this sense. And if they do, let's talk about it again after 20th December. We count the forces and see what possibilities we have to hear together with these people that defend the right to decide. I'm telling you so much, because I obviously prefer a stager with people who listen to us, talk and defend our right to decide how we were born, not with those who deny us everything and take us to court. Of course we prefer all folds. But we will have to count them – we will have to count them –, those you say in Madrid are different, and when I say Madrid, of course, it is a simplification to hear, in a few words, what this Spanish represents. Processes are, therefore, obviously yes, and this we must pull forward, Mr. Rabell. Because we have exercised the right to decide, we have this legitimacy, you have done a good analysis of how it remains, in the effects of Catalonia, this text very sacred that seems to be the Spanish Constitution and its master arbiter, which is the Constitutional Court, in addition to its description. We have the legitimacy to start this process. We certainly don't have all the strength yet, you said, to end it with all its consequences, but to start it, to plant it and to leave it to those majorities that there may be in this country that through the ballot box, another shot, finish the work that we have begun. And here we have a huge and huge responsibility to do it and to do it right. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.27.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.28.0	Thank you very much, President, a little more. Well, if you don't, this intercanvi will have had the merit or interest to do that, somehow, the Mr. But dressed as yesterday's red doesn't leave the Mr. But what do you say what you think and argue with the left as a man of neo-liberal culture and tradition. At least, we've come..., it's got this utility, so I'm saying it because that's why everyone will know where they want to invest and how they want to invest. So, this, utility, I think it's important. See, very, very quick not to abuse your time. A little by order of the things he went through. That our formations intel our speeches are not successful. Home, it's all related. Look, in Greece we have won two shots, our companies, the elections and now in Portugal will rule a government of the left. Naturally, you are right in one thing, that even the left-wing government that will govern Portugal will have to govern with a highly conditioned program for the correlation of forces with the physical powers of the European Union. Like Greece: the government of Syriza, has suffered a political defeat and is applying counter policies to its desires and to its will and to the will of the Greek people, trying to contain and modulate them. But what's that for? Do you think Catalonia would be better off? – Do you think Catalonia would be better off? We are convinced that either after Syriza, after Portugal, see Catalonia, see Madrid, come the peoples of southern Europe and start to change the correlation of forces at the level of the European Union, or the peoples of southern Europe will not get together. They will not get out of this situation of dependence, of this situation of impositions of austerity policies, of this subordination to the interests of the great European corporations. But I can remember, I can remember here that, if Syriza has suffered what he has suffered and the Greek people has suffered the humiliation that he has suffered, it is because of all the political forces that today..., or many of those that are now discussing here, they have cost the European Union's practical powers against the Greek people (some applause), starting with the PP, and starting with the parties that you represent at the level of the European Parliament. Who's he counting on? With whom did the Greek people count to defend their national sovereignty? This is the first question I can't forget. Therefore, succeed, therefore, relate; the fight is thus: it comes to certain points, resists how it can and continues to struggle. And, above all, the lesson that we have, that we betray, is that the little people can hardly claim their national sovereignty if they do not weave strong alliances with the other people. This, the main conclusion and lesson of Greece. Therefore, when we address and talk about the issues here, of building a Catalan republic and a process of self-determination and independence, we should think about this, not if in Madrid we have more or less allies: either we seek them, or we build them, or we have these complicitys, or we forget a brighter destiny than that of Greece. Let's see, about the sincere meter. To begin with the « sincere meter, that is to say that the political formation of which we are hereus, in a way, Initiative, listen, the theme of concerts with religious schools was always very clear, and always opposed it. And, forgive me, it's an pride and a tradition of the left of this country, of the left that we represent, yes, sir, as a tradition of the culture that you represent, so, listen, going to the College of chaplains and monks. Each has its own tradition and its own history, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Exactly. And we have our own, and we are very proud to be in a debate in which each one is revealed as it really is, which is ultimately that interest. Listen, you're talking about the financial difficulties. You're obvious. And we have not only not denied it, but we are the first to explain to what extent the Spanish State is using in a very political way the management of the deficit, in a very political way, in order to induce, precisely, in the autonomous communities they have, that they must manage public services, therefore, policies of privatization. But one thing is for them to induce them and another is for us to play it or put ourselves in this dynamic. Because, listen, it's not just about a question of funding. When there are certain policies of management of sanitation, which means to derive, derive activities and services that are donated in public centers to private centers, the result in terms of financing is not that of a estalvi, it is a transfer of public resources to private interests. And this is the discussion– and this is the discussion–, in fact, very ideological– very ideological. Indeed, everything is masked before the public opinion, before, therefore, the presuppositionary constraints and policies developed by the PP government. But this does not hide that there are options here too, there are priorities, there are policies, there are decisions and there is an ideological burden in all these decisions. For example, the theme that... to talk about decisions made here. You told us, he's talking to us like it's an imposition, some things that's all up there. Go on, there are things that come from here and decisions that are taken here. For example, the omnibus laws, the famous omnibus laws that were voted with the support of the PP, huh? , and that they had among other things and among other consequences, therefore, to tear down the Housing Law and to take the possibilities to the public administrations to mobilize – to mobilize – housing for the purpose of social logger. And that was a decision here, that didn't impose Madrid, did it? He thought, realized and designed here, with promptness and extraordinary celerity, only to reach the government. Therefore, indeed, beyond this reality we are giving substance to, there are policies, ideological options, which are the ones we are debating. You, indirectly, Mr. But, have given us the reason for what we have been saying in our intervention. You are not a candidate, let's say, abstract or instrumental of a process; it represents policies, bonds, commitments, a culture, traditions, which are what we criticize and think is not at the height of the country's circumstances and demands. And, so, well, say, quite simply, to end, why many things..., uh, please, don't compare Port Adventure with a casino complex, huh? Ah, of course, if that's the country's policy – if that's the country's policy – we'll discuss it – we'll discuss it. Listen, we were also available, and it was one of the most embarrassing images we've seen in the last few days..., the willingness to accept that Eurovegas project. Sort of, lucky he didn't finally call the project, 'cause they would've tore up a whole region. And, indeed, before a difficult situation, with a chronic twist in many people, we would probably have gotten the support of some gatherings, which would have fallen before, let us say, the chanting that you say: "Do you want this, do you want the thing, or do you want the work that will come to you? Because always, when these projects are presented: "This will create jobs. I remember that, at that time, he came to talk that he would create 210,000 job places, that we would have to mobilize forces to the foreigner to make Eurovegas work. Always, before these projects, as more speculation and as more perverse they are, more work places are believed or promised to be created. And, finally, we have an authentic unravel, and finally we have this, casino economy. Is this the country model we're discussing? This is the discussion. You finally forgot what you told us yesterday. Yesterday he said to us: « Speculatory economy, no. He's defending our casino economy today. Of course, I'm sorry, but that's it. Well, and finally, the subject of the process, the subject of the process and of a process constitute. What we say is something that is common sense and that is demonstrated, that has to do with analysis and perception of reality. The perception of the reality that we have after these elections is that a large social majority has been fractured by a runaway forward, by an premature – premature – way of putting things together. Look, don't tell me..., above all, don't tell us, where we come, as I said before, from the tradition of venous motion and labor movement, that we have the experience that we've never been given the first time we've asked for it; if that were so, we'd be in an archadia, and a long time ago. We come from a tradition in which everything we have achieved has cost us years and years of struggle, sacrifices, insistence, claim, obsession, tenacity and sacrifices. Tell me that the Spanish State hasn't let a reference be made... will you tell me or tell me? You know, he didn't let a reference be made. But what do you mean? It means that we must continue to fight and insist, as the Scots did; we must fight and insist until we get it. Naturally that Scotland is Scotland, and we are Catalonia, and England and Spain..., but the need for a democratic expression of Catalan citizenship, in an internationally recognized act, is simply indefusible – indefusible. And that's what can generate a real democratic mandate, and that's what can be read and read from the Spanish state. What's not inside the Spanish State is a runaway from the front. You do not agree that, at present, in view of the 20th of September, what was done yesterday is the best electoral act in favor of the PP and Ciutadans at the elections (some applause) of the 20th of December, the best electoral act? If I was Mariano Rajoy – and probably this thought must have crossed the line – I wouldn't explain what my election program is in the face of September 20th, because, as less said, more votes will have, I would limit myself to commenting on television days after the Catalan ordago. This is what will seek votes, and what will make us incomprehensible and not understood, and what will make it difficult precisely the work and effort of our people in the Spanish State, precisely, to generate majorities favorable to the right of self-determination of the people of Catalonia. Therefore, we insist on this perspective; we will not let, we will not fail in this struggle, and, of course, that explanations – which I thank Mr. Mas – do not make us change the feeling of our vote. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.29.0	We suspend the session until the four of this late.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.30.0	Let us begin the session with the interventions of the rest of the parliamentary groups. Next, has the words of the illustrious Mr Xavier García Albiol, president of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.31.0	Madam Speaker of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, candidate Mr But, I would like to begin my intervention in this investment debate by referring to a phrase that was the President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, who said: "You can fool everyone for some time, until you can fool some people all the time, but you can't fool everyone all the time. I believe that this sentence, this brilliant phrase of which he was president of the United States, is the best example, is the best reference that we have experienced so far with this debate, and in a very special way with the words of the candidate, Mr. More. If I have to sum up with four concepts, if I have to sum up with four ideas that we were to listen to yesterday at the time and time that Mr. Mas dedicated to his intervention, and during today's day, to the replication of the different political groups, these four concepts, these four ideas could be summed up in weakened, submissive, lied and hated against Spain. Debilitated before his candidacy companions, some who were not in the mass formed part of other political projects, and especially before the deputies and deputies of the CUP, of this radical, anti-system party, with extravagant, insufficitable and prone, as I said, of a party that defends anti-system installations; lied because with their repeated interventions the Lord but tried to cover the incapacity of his actions, of his propitious acts, seeking alien enemies, seeking enemies before third, and hate against Spain, I hate against Spain as an enemy I imagine of an oppressor who, according to the words of the Lord But, wants to suppress the will of the Catalan people. I must tell you with all sincerity, Mr. candidate: I had never listened to a political leader that you had so much of his responsibilities as you did in the past twenty-four hours. And from all his interventions, from his concrete statements, some that seem unacceptable to us, from the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputies of the People's Party of Catalonia want to highlight one, one that for us has been especially difficult, and it seems to us tremendously unfair. Mr Mas, we find it extremely unfair and extremely serious when you say that democracy in Spain is of low quality. To say that in Spain democracy is of low quality is to insult thousands and thousands and millions of men who have worked in this country to consolidate this democracy; a democracy that surely is imperfect, but that, among other issues, that democracy that you claim to be of low quality is that which has allowed you, during yesterday, to approve a proposal that is unacceptable and totally illegitimate, this low quality democracy that you are criticising. It seems to me that we cannot accept, in any way, when you insist and try to sell the idea to the Catalans in this chamber that the democracy that we have in this country has as a priority to devote itself to instructing prosecutors or the police to pursue whom. I don't know who the police are after. The police are after those who are delinquent. And it seems that in Catalonia there is enough evidence, Mr. Mas, that shows that people, and people with relevance, of your party have done so, and have done so for quite some time, at least since the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. The police in this country are not dedicated to persecuting those good people or, the prosecutors, to making false accusations. Today he pointed out, this morning, a prosecutor who is not from the city or municipality of Vendrell..., we remember that Vendrell is where at these moments is due to term an important part of the investigation, of the cases of irregularities presumably by Convergence and Union. I would like to remind you that if an investigation has been opened at these times, which is being conducted by a Catalan judge, it is not because a prosecutor in Madrid has decided to do so: it is because there was a complaint by a director of the Republican Left in Catalonia that he is carrying out a series of irregularities that occurred in this country and in the government that you preside and, obviously, in part. I, yesterday, when I went home, wrote an intervention, prepared a speech. I must recognize you, Mr. More, that at the length of today's day I had to change you, I had to change you, and at the end I considered, therefore, that I would go out here, to this rostrum, to try to put into evidence all those aspects that you have highlighted and that do not obey the reality. It seems to me that his intervention yesterday and, in a very special way, during today's day is an example – and allow me to say it with all personal respect, and I must say – it seems to me that his intervention during yesterday's and today's day is an example of political cynicism – is an example of political cynicism. How does it have the capacity to fail to take on its own realities? How does he have the ability not to take on what is his own government action, which for three years is dedicated solely and exclusively to a tape, oblivious to what are the priorities and needs of most Catalans and working exclusively for one part, for the purpose of defending a part of the population, which is not a majority, as I will mention at this time? You pointed out to the extent of your intervention, and especially during today's day, that, of course, the State, that Spain is very painful, that Spain does not care about Catalonia, that Spain has abused Catalonia, has abused the government legitimately chosen. I want to remind you, Mr. But, that if anyone has acted with disloyalty, especially in 2012, it has been you. When you, the year 2012, go to La Moncloa Palace to ask for a better financing system, you are making an act of complacency. And he's not doing it because he's not legitimate to ask for a better funding system, which we can agree on. What is an authentic institutional complacency is that, in order to try to cover the conflicts that had with the retails that were due to the end of his Government – and I want to remind him that the fruit of those retails was forced upon you, and the members of his Government, to have to enter into helicopter in this Parliament, which I do not justify, nor much less – so, in order to try to cover those retails, you kept your joy, at a time when this country was debating whether to be rescued by the European Union or to pull forward, you had a brilliant idea, to try to take responsibility for, to ask the President of the Government of Spain for a new financial model, a better finance for Catalonia, on the one hand, on the other hand being a citizen, at a time. And when our country was in this situation, you have no other brilliant idea than to ask for an effort. What answer did the Government of Spain expect? What answer did you expect? You return and, convinced that you have a social majority and that you have a political majority, you decide to call the elections. I want to remind you, and all the members of your party, that from that moment until today, the representation of your party in this chamber has remained with half the deputies. But you haven't had enough. You have not been able to more... that, depending on the social and political circumstances that we were living at that time, to assume its responsibility as a government. It has abandoned what are the priorities in the health aspect, it has abandoned the priorities in the educational aspect, it has forgotten the social policies – we are not talking about the territorial ones – only and exclusively working in one direction, in order to try to divert attention from the inaction of its government. And on top of that, we have to listen, Mr. candidate, that you, at the last election, got a democratic endorsement to follow this path. A democratic endorsement of 36 per cent of the electoral census? What democratic endorsement is this, Mr. But? 36_percent of the electoral census. And with the remaining 64_per_cent what do we do? What are you doing with us? You're not gonna let us down, are you? Will they make us invisible? Do they make us as if we don't exist? Doesn't our opinion count? You want to start a process for a rupturistic adventure that doesn't have the support of most Catalans. You, who like to speak so much on behalf of all Catalonia, in this case speaking on behalf, as at most, of a third of the people of Catalonia. Does that seem acceptable to you? It seems to you that it is acceptable to start this adventure with this social support that you have at these times, from a process of the Catalan Republic or the new independent state of Catalonia..., I don't know, as each day they have a different name... And, besides, do you think that this project, most of the Catalan society bets why the pull forward with a radical and extravagant game, like that of the CUP? Do you think that the majority of Catalan society bets because the new model of society, the new model of Catalonia wanders from the hands of these deputies, of the deputies of the CUP? I do not see Mr. Mas-Colell here, because, if not, I would ask Mr. Mas-Colell: "Listen to me, are you prepared to agree fiscal and economic policies with the members of the CUP? Is that what Catalan society needs? Or Mr Puig, who I do not see either, "the industrial, touristic policies, the creation of jobs, we have to agree with those who plant the market crossing, get out of the European Union, get out of the euro? Do they really believe that these installations are the ones that defend most Catalans? Honestly, I don't think it's like that. Yesterday, too, we wanted to listen – and today, Mr. Mas has said so in the past – a series of toilets respect the fact that the Government of Spain, Spain does not invest in Catalonia. And you and your government know it's not true. They know that in the last 20 years, and not in the past, I speak, only and exclusively, of the ruling actions of the People's Party, the ruling words of the People's Party and the governments of the PSOE. He turned to Catalonia like he'd ever done. And, concretely, for which it refers to this legislature, with a legislature of economic crisis, with a legislature in which the public archives, including those of the State, were in a limited situation, in Catalonia have invested 50,000_million euros to pay suppliers of Catalan administrations– 50,000_million euros. It has invested here in Catalonia 30_percent of the total liquidity fund allocated to the autonomous communities. And thanks to the financing of the State, of this state, Mr. Mas, which is so painful, the Government of Catalonia has stopped paying 8_million euros in concept of interests. Maybe you should explain, you should recognize, and you should thank your government members, your candidature members, and you yourself, that, as I said, the major investments in infrastructure that occurred in the last 20 years: EUR 33,000_million. All Catalan capitals are connected to the high-speed train, the Mediterranean corridor is being driven, a new terminal has been built to the European Union, and at these times land access to the port of Barcelona is being built. Not to mention the Rodalies, the Renfe service : it is working in the Rodalies of Tarragona, Girona and improving access to Barcelona. And in relation to the assumptions of the last years, of the last five years, they have contemplated parties, the general assumptions of the State – they have contemplated parties –, destined to infrastructures in Catalonia for a value of 11,000_million euros; for example, the year 2016, the year that we are about to start, will be destined almost 2,300_million euros, a 6_percent more than the year passed. Does that seem insufficient to you? So are we. We would want more investment for Catalonia, of course! And we want a better finance model? Obviously. But, listen to me, let's get out of a moment of crisis, as you point out, and a moment when, on some occasions, in the last four years, suppliers here in Catalonia have been able to collect. Because if you took over your government, Mr. But, most of the businesses that at these times resist, they would no longer exist. And I tell him my experience as Mayor of Badalona. When I arrived at my city, I found that I had bills pending for more than 35 million euros, and economic concerts with the Government of Catalonia for a similar amount, to which we did not have a front. It was thanks to the Government of Spain and the Providers' Board that we were able to deal with these payments, and today most of these businesses, these autonomies and these small and medium-sized businesses work. Therefore, I would ask you to be just with your comments. You also mentioned yesterday a series of questions relating, for example, to international policy. And he said, very proud: "We are spoken of. Listen to me, there's a lot of systems, huh? 'Cause you're talking about one. If we start making frivolities and acts of irresponsibility, it'll be news all over the world. Ara, with all sincerity: that this country..., that in this country, where we are emerging from the crisis, where Spain is at present the country that generates the most confidence in the markets at international level, where Spain at present is the country of the European Union that is generating the most jobs, that our credibility, that our economic and political stability are being questioned because of a government and because of a political leader who has started a break-up adventure – a break-up adventure – that at this time has no longer become a problem exclusively of Spain, but of the international community, for the truth is that I believe that you will be given a lot of international visibility, but I believe that you are doing us a little favor for all Catalans and for all of Spain, putting at risk all this work that we have achieved among all in recent years. I don't know, Mr. But, boss, I don't know a businessman who says that the political situation that you and your government have caused them to trust. I don't know any entrepreneurs, I don't know any entrepreneurs who say: « I am looking forward to independence to expand my company or to move to Catalonia. On the other hand, Mr. Mas, you know enough that you are concerned and that you are putting up with your investments in Catalonia at these moments motivated by the political situation that you are causing. And this morning it refers to the fact that: "Ui! IBEX companies aren't happy with me. It is that with you, Mr. But, they are not happy, neither the companies of the IBEX, nor most of the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs of Catalonia or autonomous when they see that the situation of political instability leads us to a situation of economic instability. And that's something I should think about. Assenyalar, also, Mr. candidate, that when you today tried to make us a lesson here, so, economics – he told us about the deficit and told us about the debt – left one aspect. He made a good definition of what the deficit is and what the debt is, but left one aspect that is important: the debt that Catalonia, which the Generality has at these times, 50_percent of this debt has been assumed by the Government of Spain. That's what he forgot. And why did the Government of Spain assume that? Because when you did, your government went to finance international markets, it's not cool. Because when you, your government, went to finance in international markets, you would have to pay a lot of interest in the middle. And this Government of Spain, which is so painful, this Government of Spain which is so badly carried with Catalonia, is that it allows at these times in Catalonia there is no economic failure on the part of the Government of the Generality and that it can finance with normality. And that, thanks to this aspect, it is not necessary to close and not to fail to provide certain services that are necessary. And, before this situation, his proposal, his offer, was addressed exclusively to the CUP party. I'd ask for a reflection. And they ask for a calm reflection. In these moments I understand that you, of the People's Party, consider, therefore, that we are very bad people, that we do not believe Catalonia, that we rise in the morning with the sole will, therefore, to see how we harm Catalonia. I understand that you think this, even though it forms part of your imagination – it forms part of your imagination – but there are two political groups here today that have opened a door to it – that we also open it, but I already understand that with us you don't want to – but here there are two political groups that have opened a door to it: Citizens and the Socialist Party. And I, from the responsibility, Mr. Mas, tell him that I am listening and that I intend to explore possibilities to be able to reach institutional agreements that guarantee that, from a social, economic, fiscal and political point of view, the Government of Catalonia does not fall under an anti-system party like the CUP. Because I have to tell you with all sincerity and with all respect: I don't care, sir But... I don't care, no, I do worry that you are President of the Generality. Look, I don't care so much if it's you or any of your bankers. Actually, that's not the main concern for me. The main concern is that it is you or someone else, the President of the Generality and his Government will depend on two deputies who bet to break everything. And this... this is the great drama that we Catalans have from the next day on that we have President of the Generality. The fact of depend..., Catalonia – which has been an example for the Spanish conjunction, has been an example at the international level –, depends on a government, on people, on Members who have the views we have seen here today and that we know in the last few days. Therefore, I ask you to study the possibility of being able to analyze, learn and value the possibility of being able to embrace a new majority as you, at these times, wish and ask. And look, you have made various references to democracy, you have made various calls to say: "Listen to me, you must listen to what the people say! I want to say to you, Mr. Mas, that the basis of democracy is not the vote, but the respect for the democratically approved law in a parliament. This is the basis of democracy. Because I want to remind him that, from references to dictatorships to dictatorships, to dictatorships... If I don't remember, I wasn't born here, but..., I wasn't born, the year 1966, this country, with a dictator, was made a reference about the Organic Law of the State, if I'm not mistaken, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] And, listen to me, and it was a reference. I to Cuba... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.32.0	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.33.0	... – and Cuba – is also a fan of references. And we've seen the democracy they have in these countries. Therefore, I would ask you, when it comes to using terms such as democracy, to use terms such as freedom, terms, therefore, as representativeness, are a little accurate. One aspect that you also pointed out, Mr. More, and that you can bring to confusion and I am already arriving at the end of my intervention is, "It is that the Government of Spain, since the year 2010, is deceiving me. He said, more or less, that the Government of Spain is deceiving him and that you, that he is a person of good faith, so, look, he has been deceiving and he is very demoralized and he is not trusting anyone – and he is not trusting anyone. That's what you said, sir. But, more or less, I didn't say it, did I? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, demoralized, no... with this I don't know... that it's down, he said it's down. Listen to me, look, if I want to, we can talk about who she's fooled. And at these times it's good to remember the hemerotheque. I want to remind you of the newspaper newspaper El Periodico, of 28 October 2014 [[the orator shows a full of diaries]] a on, « intercomillat, « we have to deceive the state. That's what you say, sir. But... [[Widow's remorse.]] That's what you say, you've made us....
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.34.0	Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.35.0	"We have to deceive the state." It seems to me that The Newspaper...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.36.0	Respect the chorus of words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.37.0	Excuse me, Madam President, have you said anything?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.38.0	Yes, I asked for silence, Mr Albiol, because I could talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.39.0	Well, all right. [[The timer's gone. Rialles.]] If you want me to tell you the truth, I don't understand. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. So, say that, Mr. President... listen, if that's not true, the problem is... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's not true, is it? , the problem you have this diary, well – the problem you have this diary. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] With complaint form. Okay, so, with a formal complaint. But, listen to me, the reality is this. It is difficult, on the part of any government, whatever follows, following President Rajoy, following any other president, following someone who has plans that are rupturists, it is impossible..., it is impossible that no president of the government, and not going to do so President Rajoy... You pointed out, Mr. But: "No, it is not that they have not sat down to talk to us. The Government of Spain has not sat down to talk to us. How are you going to sit down and talk to us, to you, if your only approach is: or all or nothing? Its only approach is to break Catalonia from the rest of Spain. Its only approach is in the direction of breaking years and centuries of coexistence. It is impossible for the Government of Spain to sit with you, because the approaches it is currently taking are intractable for any democratic government. For this reason, Mr Mas, for this reason, candidate Artur Mas, it is clear that, from the People's Party of Catalonia, the eleven Members will vote against his investiture. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.40.0	To answer, the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.41.0	Well, good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr García Albiol, well, let me first of all try to answer some of the questions that..., go on, « ask, of the reflections that you made in your intervention, an intervention that I see that has aroused the applause of those you consider to be terrible; make 'homirare. But, said that, you, precisely, therefore, insisted on this point that what worries him the most is that the Catalan political scenario takes place in all and all of the CUP. If I didn't get it wrong, and even you don't care so much who is president or president, but the fact that there is a majority in this Parliament who rests on the UPC. That's how you put it. I understand that. Well, good. And this you identify as a weakened, as a submissive, etcetera, isn't it? Allow me to clarify the following – I will speak to you in the name of what I represent –; obviously, the UPC will already explain the things you have to explain in your turn. But, fix's, with the CUP how can we match securely? On what is the subject of a democratic mandate rejected at the polls. How many political formations did they present on 27 September clearly in their programmes that apostatized for the yes, that is, the yes to constitute a state, in Catalonia, independent? How many were there? There were two: Together for the Yes and the CUP. The other head. So, if this was the big issue, Mr. García Albiol, of these elections..., and it means that you can no longer deny that it was the big issue, because God's faith that they talked about it to the point of satiety; until they go ahead, the Spanish State, the White House's Oval Despot, to talk to President Obama, and they shouted to everyone, to talk to us, in Cameron, the Merkel, the European Commission...; here everyone intervened. Look at you if you turned it into a plebiscite, which you denied at the beginning. Looks like they just didn't have enough to convince, and they ended up looking for help all over the place. Therefore, I insist, there were two political formations that in some elections that everyone read as a plebiscite – and you, too – bet for this program of creating a state in Catalonia and an independent state. If this was the great theme of the elections and between these two political formations we have an absolute majority, what do we have to do? Oblivion us in? See that this didn't happen? Let's see that people didn't vote? To make it clear that there is no absolute majority in this Parliament? , looking at another side? Deceiving people? You have presented yourself to the last Spanish elections, in 2012, with a program..., I forgive, in 2011, the end of 2011, with a program that three weeks after almost everything had been incomplete – almost everything had been incomplete –, starting, I still remember, because of the IRPF, that you had denied in your program that would be produced. They did not cheat for fifteen days, Mr. García Albiol, nor for fifteen days to push him. And I remember very well. Now, of course, if you're used to it that, when people at the polls vote them and tell them one thing and give them a majority, you take it exactly to do the opposite, so there's your problem. It's not our case. We, when we go through the polls, Mr. García Albiol, is to complete the mandates rejected by the citizenry, not to do exactly the opposite of what we have been told at the polls, which is what you do. And that was his choices, there, and ours, here. You do not remember that 2012, precisely, when the elections were advanced here, in Catalonia, what was the frontispiece of those elections was to know in this Parliament how much majority there would be in favour of the right to decide? You don't remember, do you? That was the big issue at the time: the right to decide. Which majority did we have when the Socialist Party, by the way, was in favour of the right to decide? Who did most of us have in this Parliament? A vast majority, more than two-thirds. What happened to you? They were the same, because to you, I told you yesterday, they are absolutely the same as the vast majority in Catalonia, on any subject. We have here a very unanimous agreement for linguistic immersion: you will be able to fight it and do everything you can to fight it. And they're doing it. "The Catalan children must be Spanishized," said his ex-Minister of Culture and Education. And, obviously, they do, as much as they can, carrying a great consensus of country. And then we came and we said to you, "The tax pact. What was the majority in this country and in this Parliament in favour of the tax pact? Extensive. What happened to you? Not one – I'm going to explain it now, because I've had a good life. Extensive, and they didn't do it to me. And then came the overwhelming majority in favor of the right to decide. What did they do? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Always, in the best of cases, they looked at another side and, in the worst, they fought it all to try to push it all, Mr. García Albiol, exactly as your party had already done in the campaign of the State of Independence of the year 2006, which went ignominously throughout Spain proclaiming that the State of Catalonia, although it had been approved by an absolute majority in the Spanish Parliament, was a great affront to all Spaniards and that it could deplete the poor Andalusian children. And they paid for advertising falcons, to explain these things, they paid for them, for advertising falcons. And it turns out that you don't have any responsibility at all, we've come to this point without the People's Party having done absolutely nothing at all. They have sown the cause of discord, Mr. García Albiol, many years ago. They have sown the whole of Spain with discord because this allowed them to win votes, which is the only thing that has ever worried them. And now we've come to where we've come to. And you're directly responsible, like the party, and you can't take that responsibility away. And now they say to us: "Now they will be in the hands of the CUP at all times. False. Wrong, Mr. García Albiol, I want to calm down – I want to calm down. And surely with that we will also ease the UPC. I'm sure they'd be happy not to be responsible for a lot of things. Now, if we have a democratic mandate to push forward the constitution of a state in Catalonia and we have it explicitly after we have passed through the polls, and we have an absolute majority, for this issue – for this issue – then listen more logically than we seek agreements with whom we defend the same objective. But it turns out that this objective is not that the defense of the leaders of the CUP and of Juntes for the Yes, the defense at this time almost 2_million people in Catalonia. Obviously, for you, 2 million are not real, can not take them into account, not call or listen to them. But for us, they are. You have all the reason when you say: "But at the cost of these two million, there are not many others who say no. You're right. And he's got to listen, too. And that's why, because there are things, there are boundaries that haven't happened in this sense of the vote, so that's why things have to be done in a certain way in Catalonia. And that's why some of us will work to expand this sovereignist base in our country, which we have right to do because we're defending ideas, we're not defending hate, Mr. García Albiol. We're defending ideas. The law of discord – I use different terms of yours – the law of discord has created it for you. And, besides, they repented, and I would say that they enjoyed it, that they had gone well, which is still more regrettable, because they never calculated the consequences of those acts, surely, or they calculated them well. You know what? Now, if you're so concerned about the support of the CUP, I'm the calmer: in the matter of throwing forward the Catalan state, obviously, we'll try to hear 'us-hi. But ask the CUP if they will give support to all the rest. Ask the CUP if they will support the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, to see what they say. Ask the CUP if they will support most of the laws that are being passed in these own months in the Parliament of Catalonia, to see what they say. I don't want to speak on behalf of them, but I am going to calm him down, because they will surely want to do their own autonomous politics on the sidelines of most Junts for the Yes, with many other issues that do not follow the constitution of the Catalan state. And if that's what they have to say, then I ask myself, Mr. García Albiol: when it turns out that in many other issues we don't have the support of the UPC, will you be willing to talk and agree on many other things, which you define as priorities for the day to day? When you say, I mean you, the Socialist Party, Ciutadans, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, etc. No conditions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I hope, I hope; now I was going to make it clear, man. I hope, I hope, I know that... that he didn't let me finish, so now it's true, you, but it won't happen before the hour – it won't happen before the hour. Without conditions on the Catalan state's draft constitution, because, of course, if you have the condition that you have in the ballot box, you'll find it in a box and then we'll talk about the rest, so listen to me, then obviously you're not working together. What you want to carry for another side, for the back door, is for which we have an absolute majority in this Parliament. And to this, Mr. García Albiol, there is no right. Now, if you happen to want to talk about other things, it's not worrying, we can talk about many other things. In fact, in the previous legislatures we have not been able to speak; you have also voted in favour of the laws that have been made in this Parliament. And, in turn, we were defending the right to decide and we weren't fooling anyone. We wanted to make a reference about independence, and in fact, we tried to do it on November 9th of last year. And, despite that, you have been in favour of voting for you in this Parliament and have negotiated. I hope that you will not go back this way to respect the previous representation of the People's Party. As long as you try, you can get over it for the better. (Whispering) For the sake of effort, I can do better. But, well, if we can talk with the old people and we can do things, I hope we can do things with you, so we can do it too. Therefore, in this sense, there is no concern that there is land to do things, there is land to speak. I told you this morning, I told you yesterday, our performance will be an act also presided over by the dialect, in Catalonia; it can talk about everything and, obviously, talk about everything and talk to everyone. The tax pact. You made an explicit reference to it, going to say, "That's what you did to cover the details. Home, now I'm grateful! To cover the flaps, no: to avoid them, because we do not want to do them. To avoid them and to be able to invest in infrastructure, which we cannot do with the weaknesses that you imposed on us. And in order to meet social priorities – then I'll make a little comment about it, or a comment. Of course we don't want that. Now, if I understood what the situation was – not Catalonia alone, which was dramatic from the point of view of financing, but also that of the Spanish State – that when I spoke to President Rajoy in the first months of 2012 to talk about a fiscal pact for Catalonia, which certainly had a very large majority in this Parliament, I did not ask him, Mr García Albiol, for money in the short term. See if I'm in charge. Why, of course, the President of the Generality of Catalonia, in view of a Spanish optics, what did he ask for in Madrid? The label, right? : « They only care about money. The more they can take, the better; that's what's always said. I didn't ask for a single cent of euro. I asked for something that was more important at the time and that was at President Rajoy's abst and that didn't move a millimetre or a cent of euro at that time, but I asked him for one thing, I said to him: "Let's bring Catalonia from the coffee financing system for everyone, that is, from the LOFCA, let's bring it from here and organize it for Catalonia, just as they have other, a bilateral financing system. That is to say, I asked him that political faith, not that I paid money that he did not have, that he did not have politics; that he understood the problem of the foundations that were in Catalonia, demanded of ugly years and breads; that he understood that a territory, even though it is produced, cannot live with a deficit of 8 per cent per year on its GDP, on its creation of wealth, fiscal deficit, that it cannot always live underfunded, that a territory produced with Catalonia has no reason to have more public services than other territories much less produced in the Spanish State, and that he has not been able to systematically punish Catalonia in terms of public investment, in terms of infrastructure, as well as then, explain it. And I will explain it not only with regard to the People's Party, but also with regard to other governments that have held Spain. Therefore, do not come to explain stories that are not true, Mr. García Albiol. Maybe they're not true and you explain them so because you don't know them, but I do know them, because what I was doing was me. And I know perfectly well how I planted it, and I know perfectly well what answers I received. And I didn't get along with the president of Catalonia when I said I wasn't going to ask for money at that time, because I knew perfectly well that Spain, at that time, could not put them on the table, neither for Catalonia nor for anyone; it had to do a lot more complicated. But in politics, we could have found a way, and we had months to negotiate that tax pact. And he closed the door with bread and stuff, he said no, no morning, which, certainly, surprised Mr. Rajoy, because it costs him, to say no, but he said it this time. Obviously, one more time, without calculating the consequences, because they have to think: "No, in Catalonia they will do as always, they will see that nothing happens, they will continue to help, already we know them, it is the history of always, they will do the right thing, they will claim some thing, we will say that yes, after obviously it will not, it is a complaint, etcetera. So, this time no longer; patience has run out, Mr. García Albiol, because we already have a lot of experience, all folds, and this time the layout had to be different. Therefore, neither to cover the details nor to cover anything: we went to make a summer settlement, without asking for short-term money and asking that Catalonia treat itself as the majority of the Catalan society wanted. And I will remind you of one very important thing: I recalled that that fiscal pact, when it was promoted in 2010 in Catalonia, was because we had tabled in some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia where we had a large majority, in this Parliament, sixty-two direct deputies, and that this claim of the fiscal pact was shared by other political forces of this Parliament, to constitute a majority that passed from the eighty deputies. And what happened to you guys? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Always the usual. Always. This is the history of the tax pact, Mr. García Albiol. Don't tell us stories that aren't true. I also said: "You have forgotten the priorities of the day-to-day, the priorities that affect people, the daily life. It's not true, Mr. García Albiol, we haven't forgotten. Surely we have made mistakes, like all governments, but I assure you that we have not forgotten, because this has been the main object of our action, to take care that the government functioned, which means the public administration, which means public policies, which means public services. I'll give you three or four examples, because you mentioned them. This morning I had a chance to comment on it: look at your assumptions destined for salvation in these later years, take seven, eight, nine years; say 'when the presumption of salvation – you have quoted it – you have reached 40_percent of the presumption of the Generality. It had never arrived, it always remained in 36, 37, 38_per_cent; it had never reached 40_per_cent. Now it's, like, 40. Because before we retaliate other things we have tried not to retaliate well in salvation, as little as possible. Now, of course there have been details in Catalonia, imposed, for your government, yes, sir, and for the European Union, but [[Funnel veils]] ... Hope – hope, hope. I hope we can talk about that too. But do you know what happened in Spain between Europe and the European Union? When Spain was in one condition..., when you arrived at the Government in Spain – the end of 2011 – Spain was in very complicated, dramatic conditions. Now, like you, and all the folds, Spain in its conjunction was in much worse condition – much worse – than other countries of the European Union, you know what this painful European Union did with Spain? He gave them much more margin and much longer than he did to others who had already completed much better. He did not treat everyone the same, the European Union; he said: "Those who were worse need more time to be able to end up better from this point of view of austerity, if you want, questionable. The European Union did this. And proof of that is that at this point in time the Spanish State is very much on top, even today – governing you – of the deficits that most of the countries of the European Union have. What did you do with the autonomous communities of the Spanish State? Exactly the opposite of what the European Union had done with Spain. You said, "No, no, it's the same here. Autonomys, as they are, all the same disability objective, and all at the same rate. I mean, no sensitivities, no one. Except for one year; one year, they differentiated this, one. And do you know when they solved it that year, that, the only time they've distinguished it in four years? Do you know when they solved it? To the month of August! When the work is practically done, from the point of view of expense and reversal; until August, they came to settle it a little. One sun year, four. And all the rest of it, imposing a deficit that you knew perfectly well that they were absolutely inconclusive. I was talking about social policies? So, let's talk. Do you know how the law of dependence is being paid in Catalonia? They promised us, those who made the Law of Dependency – that it certainly wasn't you, but you voted for it – they promised us that, for every public euro you set up in the State, each autonomy would not have to be one more: 1-1. Do you know how this story ended? Eighty-three cents the Generality, said cents the Central State. It's, like, a monumental hair socket, a monumental trick. Are you talking about social policies? You're talking about social policies, have you done this with one of the big social policy issues? Do you want me to explain to you how the payment or the bonuses on the wages of the disabled working at the special work centres work? It works that the rule is done by the State, it forces a certain bonus, it pays less of the bonus, and the autonomy, that it takes care of, if it wants – what we have done in Catalonia, by the way, in order not to leave thousands of disabled people working in the special work centers. And you're talking about social policies and not taking care of each other day by day? They promised us great students in health care and education, thanks to a lot of measures you took. From the ages, practically nothing; there was no such thing. And I don't say it; ask any president of any autonomous community in the Spanish State, he will say exactly the same. Starting with the Madrids, who have complained bitterly about the deal that comes from the Ministry of Hisenda and the insensitivity of the Spanish Government respect the expense of autonomy, that it is not a expense, let's say, of these, of..., go, to look good, huh? : it's sanitation, it's education, it's universities, it's vocational training, it's social services, it's attention to the big people, it's public transport, it's housing policies, in our case security, we arrest them..., it's all that. So, no, Mr. García Albiol, no. And you allow 'one thing' – and I say it, go, without wanting to put the saying more to the page that it touches, don't you? – but we do not think to give thanks for the theme of FLA. Why do you know what's going on? That if the Spanish government can and must finance the autonomy in general, and also Catalonia, because it can pay at the end of the month, it is only for a reason: because who collects the taxes is the Spanish government. In twenty-four hours – in twenty-four hours – the FLA was finished, if you want. And, listen, there is absolutely nothing wrong with it: they take back resources or taxes on autonomy, in our case the Government of Catalonia; money, first we have; we finance ourselves, as with some autonomy in the Spanish State, and the problem we do not have. And in Catalonia, problems in this sense, we would have very few, because we would collect all the money we needed and we would not have to ask for a single one believed in the Spanish State, or one. That's how the FLA works, Mr. García Albiol. How do you want us to thank you, if it turns out that this is being done with taxes paid by businesses and the citizens of Catalonia? But if it works like that, man! [[Some applause.]] And yet, in addition, they want to go through the humiliation of having to thank him! When it turns out you get the money back. And, by the way – for the information of the people who arrive in Parliament and who may not have been there – do you know how these money is transferred to autonomy? – and now I'm speaking in general. Instead of transferring the cent_per_cent of what you're touching, because it's what you've got, you distribute 98_per_cent of a forecast, and the forecast is almost always inferior to reality, with which you are paid less than you would and, in addition, 98_per_cent. I'm spatula't. It works like this! You didn't make it up, did you? The Socialist Party did the same thing. But it works like that, man! And do we still have to thank you? We still have to bow down, because you, generously, invest through the FLA to pay suppliers? Leave us money, we'll receive it and we'll pay it. And they don't serve us and they don't need us for nothing, absolutely for nothing. (Applause.) Are we talking infrastructure, Mr. García Albiol? We're talking infrastructure. When the session is over, if you want, we do not go to the port of Barcelona, and in the port of Barcelona we will see how, years and days later, we do not yet have the railway connection with a normal European width. It's one of the great ports in the Spanish State. Do you know when I signed the agreement with the Minister of Development to do this? Jo, personally... don't you have to explain stories to me? September 2013. It's been two years. Not a machine on the ground. Are we talking infrastructure? Then we don't go to the port of Tarragona. And when we arrive at the port of Tarragona you will see a thing that is given the third thread, which must go until Castellbisbal, then go until the European Union. Do you know when they were..., don't you, in this case, sign an agreement, don't you: do you know when the third wire works were awarded to connect the port of Tarragona with the European Union? Do you know when the works were awarded? It's been almost three years! Adjudicating the works; which must have meant that there was a presumption, because, if not, they could not award them. Not a machine on the ground. Three years after he awarded the works! Are we going to Rodalies? Shall we follow the walk? Four thousand million euros, promised us a Minister of Foment who was not of his political formation, 4,000 million euros! That's about five years ago. With a proper signature, with all of you and all of you, all of paraphernalia, etc. Do you know how much he's invested in these 4,000_million euros? He didn't make it to four hundred. You know, in the last few years, what did the Spanish government invest in infrastructure, the color that followed, in Catalonia? Ten per cent. Do you know which population has Catalonia in relation to the Spanish State? The 16th. Do you know what our economy weighs? The 19th. Clearly, we have to give thanks; it's done very well. It reverses the half of what we care about economically, and we have to give thanks. It's inverted, always, under our people, and we have to give thanks. We'd pull ourselves out to reach a pact with the Statute of Autonomy, because it's reversed for seven years according to GDP, and it's passed through the claterium. Thank you, Mr. García Albiol, many thanks. (Whispering) Thank you very much, because we've got an excellent deal in infrastructure. You could go on. Do you want us to go to National II, to the gironine comarques? Now I remember that the more or less the reversal they make for the year seems to me to be two miles. And to the Jew? They can go all the way. 340? At B-40? [[Widow's remorse.]] Now... now it will turn out that there have been no reversals during this time in the Spanish State. Let me know, the AVE in some places is happening. The AVE in some places must be fading. [[Widow's remorse.]] And they're not exactly the places where there's more economic activity. It probably wouldn't heat the AVE to go to these places. With a train of very good performance there would be enough. Countries that are much richer than ours don't have AVE at all. Now, of course, here, even though there is no money, AVE in places where there is not exactly the main basis of economic activity. Okay. To go through with it. He was talking to me about entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and he said to me, Mr. García Albiol, that you, if I don't hardly remember the expression you used, say: "I can't find a businessman or a businessman who has confidence in what is the future of the country as it is doing. More or less he said that, didn't he? Okay. I suggest that as long as I go to some business act. There was one yesterday. You don't seem to be there, do you? The guy from Cecot wasn't there, was he? So, I can't talk about it right now, because someone might think it would be to assume what I'd say. But I talked to people there was in that act. Let's see if they were from these companies that you find, from those that say everything will go wrong. By the way, it was full, huh? , the Audiences of Barcelona. There's a lot of people. There were a lot of entrepreneurs there. I can talk to a lot of people. Some Members and Members of this House, and some Councillors, too. They can explain it to you. I don't, because I could misinterpret it, if I explain it here. But you can captivate yourself there, and you'll see what the reaction is. Do something else, that's easier still. Do you know what the Far Manifesto is? The Manifesto del Far is a manifesto that was made by all the chambers of commerce of Catalonia and most of the business associations of this country. Not all of them, but almost all of them. Clearly, they must be a glue of fools who don't know what they're doing, because they don't understand how things work, and we manipulate them, or we condition them with help, which they're supposed to tell us now. So no, Mr. García Albiol. There is a large part of this country's business community, the majority, on behalf, that bets on the right to decide, and that bets on the referendum. And that they say publicly that the result of the elections must be taken into account, either more or less. The thing that happens that you have to talk to very few, business people. And they always have to be the same. And they don't have to be exactly at the base. And those might be explaining what you're saying. But, you do a lot of that, you talk to everybody, you talk to these guys, too, huh? because everyone's opinions are important. But I talk to everyone, I don't just talk to a few pockets, because it could get a wrong impression of what is the reaction of the economic world and the business world in general. The last thing, or two last things that I wanted to say to you, that you're afraid maybe not so much of the day-to-day, that you said, not so much political impressions, etc., but deep down, right? You said that..., "how do you fly...? Go on, no, I'll say it another way. Clearly, when the police and prosecutors act, etc., it's because there are things, and we have to get used to it. So, look, Mr. García Albiol, I'm convinced that when the police and prosecutors act, many times there are things worth investigating, which I don't deny, but not always – not always. You also know that there are some times that this happens and that after all it has been a mountain, with the involvement of certain units of the police, which are never identified; with the intervention of certain journalists, who always say they have reliable facts – never contrasted with truth – and with the intervention of governmental authorities that are already in charge of confirming the thesis of the journalists. And all this is a mountain to end up influencing elections, that is, committing election crimes. All this also happens, Mr. García Albiol – all this also happens. He spent a few months ago with a person who was the mayor of Barcelona at the time. So, okay, not whenever the police act, I forgive, I forgive, I forgive, I forgive every time the police act or the prosecution will be because there is some motive to investigate, but always, always, never. And when the opposite happens – that is to say, that there is no motive – then who is responsible in a state of law that you always defend with such vehemence? Who's responsible for all this? You want the answer? None. Then no one. The great state of right and the great state of democratic quality we have, I'll tell you what I gave you at the beginning – what I said yesterday, go –: Spain, the Spanish State is a state of low democratic quality. And I remembered that when I speak of the Spanish State I don't speak of Spain, I speak of the structure of the State, which, fortunately, is different, very different. The controversy at this time we don't have with Spain, we have with the Spanish State, which is very different – very different. And I assure you one thing, from hate to Espanya people or not, among other things, Mr. García Albiol, among other things because..., first, because you can't hear hate for anyone, less for which you can consider people very close to you, less for which you have fraternal, historical, cultural, linguistic, political, economic, commercial ties. That's what Spain is to us. We have told them a thousand times: we have nothing against Spain, and much less I hate it. I would never have been able to say a word like I did. Yesterday I used a much higher term, I said: "intolerance to Catalan national reality, which is obvious. Spain does not want to recognize Catalonia as a nation – it does not want to – because it considers that there is only one, by birth, which is called "Spain". And that's intolerance to the reality of coughing up that's from the Catalan nation. Well, listen to me, I know it's hard for me to be like this, but I didn't talk about hate, you did. It's a word he missed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, and he didn't... I think he doesn't have to use that word, because it's not good for anyone. And I can assure you that I hate no one, but you're gonna make it sound good. You think of a situation... – I know it's very difficult to think of those terms that I'm going to say now, complicated, but –, you think of a situation: now imagine's Catalonia above, as is the proposal of the majority parliament, to constitute a state for itself. Do you think this for Spain would be an opportunity to rethink herself? If Catalonia rises to this objective from an absolutely democratic and peaceful way, do you think that Spain can come to think again, as a consequence of this Catalan way? Maybe yes– maybe yes–, why not? What we claim, Mr. García Albiol, is that one day we can talk to the Spanish nation and the equal Spanish State. And if there's a lot of people in this country who believe in it, that's gonna happen. And for many laws that you vagrant exhibiting and for many other things, this will not be able to put up with. You reflected: "Home, there were also references in dictatorships. Yes, of course, and read it. And there was no law there either. [[Widow's remorse.]] And they also told us to make them complete. [[Greetings.]] And as long as they did – and as long as they did. The problem is not, Mr. García Albiol, because this is the error of planting it... – this is the error of planting it –, no..., if I've already understood them – I've already understood them – and I don't want to distort their intervention, so now I add this comment. The problem, Mr. García Albiol, is not democracy, you know... it's obvious that everything is united. We also bet on a Catalan democratic state with all its legal order, the one that handles this Parliament of Catalonia. Of course I do! The problem is always the same, or the opposite: how do we adapt the laws to the legitimacy that the ballot boxes give? That's the theme, and you're the language they don't want to hear. And that's why we have the tensions we have. Because when these democratic mandates are produced at the polls and the absolute majority in the parliaments, your reactions without saying anything, and if we change legal marks after a negotiation, we will not have the tension we have. It is what you always say: "From here it does not happen because you say the law, end and end. That's what they're saying in dictatorships too, and now fortunately we're not there. But reacting like this is a low-quality democracy. And you do the proof: with less results in the Scottish Parliament, the British went to school and made a reference. And they're gonna play it. And they won, by the way. And with less support than what we have in this Parliament of Catalonia, Canadians did exactly the same. Therefore, quality democracies against – versus – low quality democracies as is the Spanish that is demonstrating it day by day – is demonstrating it day by day. You were quoting a phrase, if I don't recall it wrongly, at the beginning, of a North American president. There was another one that was President Kennedy, I recalled yesterday, precisely, in the act with the entrepreneurs, who said: « The great revolution in the history of man, past, present and future, is the revolution of those determined to be free. That is to say, President Kennedy: "The great revolution in the history of past, present and future humanity is the revolution of those who are determined to be free. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.42.0	The word has the illustrious Lord Xavier García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.43.0	Madam President, Mr President, I don't give a damn! [[Widow's remorse.]] Do I bid more? There you go. [[Pause.]] Thank you. God, Mr. President, I don't know! which has devoted thirty-nine minutes to answering some questions that you and I know do not obey reality. [[Pause.]] Thanks, I told her that... some questions you and I both know that they don't obey reality. The first thing I want to say to you, Mr. But, is that for a lot of you, I'm saying... listen, he won't have the reason anymore – he won't have the reason any more. [[Greetings.]] I've noticed a certain tension. I've noticed a certain tension. [[From the embodiment, someone says: "Vehhemence.]] No, no vehemence, but I did notice a certain rift not with the shapes, but in all. Look, the first one I want to tell you is that I am very proud of the work that has been done here for the past few years by my partner Alicia Sánchez-Camacho. I'm telling you why he was pointing, so, trying to give me a slap in the face, a slap in the face, huh? No, I think you've done a very good job, we'll try to follow the same path. He's touched on different aspects, all of them important. I'll refer to it, even though it's out of the question. Miri, it is good to repeat that Catalonia cannot manage its taxes, because it is not true: at these times Catalonia is managing 50_percent of the IRPF, we are managing 100_percent of VAT and we have 50_percent direct. This is a reality that you can't deny, because that's it. Therefore, I leave, once and for all, the victimist role, and, depending on the tickets, depending on the normative capacity that we have, say, once and for all, to govern Catalonia. Dedic's, once and for all, to rule. What more economic resources are needed? What's the need for more tickets? Of course I do! But if that's what we've never denied – we've never denied it, Mr. But. We have never denied that Catalonia needs a better financing system. I want to remind you that this financing system of the year 2009, you– you–, sir But, I don't know if you remember it..., exactly you, or some of your government companies, said it was the best financing system that Catalonia could have. That's not what one of the PP said. Listen, that's not what someone from the PP said, that's what someone from Convergence said. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes... yes, yes, yes... [[Widow's remorse.]] It was said that it was the best financing system that Catalonia could have had. But, listen... [[Funnel veils]] Iceta and yours too – Iceta and yours too. But, listen, let me tell you something: we need to get better... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.44.0	Please, take it easy – take it easy. Respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.45.0	...do we have to improve the financing system? Of course I do. But what can't be, Mr.Mas, and I told you in my first intervention, what happens is that you've come back to focus on the 2012 meeting where you went to Moncloa – to Moncloa – to ask for a better financing system for Catalonia, which says Mariano Rajoy locked the doors and didn't say anything to him. No – no, no – the President of the Government said that at this time it was not when this new funding system was to be put in place. But that's why, Mr. More, you don't have to be a great statesman. It is obvious that the year 2012 – we remember how this country was the year 2012 –, even though you exist the whole will of the world, could not improve the financing system. The Government of Spain was dedicated, exclusively – exclusively – to trying to get this country out of the bankruptcy that the Socialist Party had left us. It's just that this is the reality! And why in these moments can a new financing system be put in place in the next parliamentary term? For a very simple reason: because it has been achieved, thanks to the economic policy that the Government of Spain has had, balance the accounts. And this benefits the Government of Spain, benefits the autonomous communities and benefits the joint ventures. And in the end, which ends up noting these improvements, thanks to the economic policy of the Government of Spain, it is the conjunction of citizens, the conjunction of men and women of this country. You said, "No, it's that we don't want them to give us the FLA; we don't need the FLA; if we govern ourselves, we don't need the FLA. Listen, I don't know if you would need it or not, which is an evidence, Mr. More, is that thanks to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund of the Government of Spain, the suppliers of the Government of Catalonia and of the joint ventures have been able to collect, and, in this way, have not had to close their negotiations in 2012, 2013 and 2014. And, of the total money that goes to the autonomous communities to help in exceptional situations, as we are commenting, Catalonia has taken 30_percent of the total allocated to the Spanish conjunction. It's the most obvious show that Spain doesn't love Catalonia, you know, that you're not the most obvious show? When it is destined to Catalonia 30_percent of the total of the tickets, of the funds of the tickets, forgiveness, of the payments, of the autonomous liquidity fund. Or follow, that Spain does not esteem Catalonia. It seems to me that the arguments fall for themselves. He pointed out, too, the candidate, Mr.Artur Mas... spoke of the plebiscite... and spoke of a legitimate... I want to remind him: it is true - it is true -, you in this chamber have, the independenceists, the absolute majority. That's right. But it is not less certain that in the street, in society, in the streets, in the towns of Catalonia, according to the results of last September, you do not have a social majority. You don't have it, Mr. More. You have a majority of independent MPs, but they do not have a social majority, because they have only rejected 36 percent of the support of the Catalan cents. And this 36 percent, to you, does not authorize them to initiate a process of rupture between Catalonia and Spain. Li ho repeateixo: with a 36_per_cent of the electoral census you do not have moral authority or political authority to initiate a process of rupture between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Because two of every three Catalans don't follow them. And these data are indisputable and, as they are indisputable, you cannot deny this evidence. You pointed out, replying to a reference to the fact that dictatorships also call for referendums. It is true, I have said it and I maintain it: in Cuba referendums are called, here when Franco's dictatorship existed, referendums were also called. But do you know the difference? That in democracy these referendums are convened according to the law and according to the laws, which you have not done – which you have not done – because you do not have the capacity to convene a referendum to initiate a process of rupture between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. And since you don't have this ability, you don't have the authority to carry it out. Surely, in any political regime other than democracy, your pretensions could be carried out: not to comply with the law, not to comply with the rule of law and to do what one considers appropriate, and, if the laws I like, I accept them, and if the laws I do not like, I jump them to the toaster, which is what you are doing, Mr. Mas – which is what you are doing. And with this attitude it is putting at risk the stability no longer only political, but social and economic of Catalonia and of the whole of Spain. And this is a reality that you refuse to recognize. You talked about the political situation at the international level, huh? He said the government of Spain, look if Catalonia. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If what's going on in Catalonia is important, would you say that, huh? They went to see everyone, to Obama and I don't know how many more people. Listen'm, so, yeah, obviously it's important. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, sir. But, it's important. And do you know what the difference is between the government of Spain and the government that you're captivating? That while to the Government of Spain all governments, all countries, all organizations like the UN, the United Nations, give it reason and make it very clear that the process towards independence, the process of the break that you want to start, is totally unworkable, you are careful to send cards to the prime ministers, who no one answers, to open embassies that no one at international level does. And that's the reality. They are the two realities: while the Government of Spain responds to international support, you absolutely – absolutely – do not notice anyone. He pointed out, too, that I don't know... at some point, I think that when you started yelling and so on, you confessed that you were debating with the president of the government. I'm not the president of the government. And he spoke to me: "It is that the Government of Spain has incomplete on the 95th..., it has incomplete its program. No, no, look, the government of Espanya has completed the 95_per_cent of its program. The escorts... [[I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what.]] I'm sorry, did you have to push taxes at the beginning of the legislature? Yeah, to save this country from falling into economic bankruptcy. And thanks to measures like these, and to the sacrifices of millions and millions of men and women, families and entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, the country was able to save itself. And at these moments that you've been economically able, sir, but so, you've been able to lower taxes on two occasions, and you've lowered the IRPF on two occasions. I have to make a lot of memory, but a lot of memory, to remember some moment when your government lowered taxes to Catalans. Because, if I wasn't wrong, if I wasn't wrong – and if I was wrong in correcting – the last time that your government here in Catalonia has imposed something, there was the imposition of inheritances and donations, which was thanks to the agreement that there was with the People's Party of Catalonia. And when we're done... getting to this type of chord, they've got it back. That's the reality. That's the reality. And while the Government of Spain went down taxes to the extent that economic recovery was produced, the Government of Catalonia acted in the direction of the government: more taxes for Catalans. And that's the reality, as much as you're capable of trying to change it. Look, how can you say that the People's Party has devoted itself to sowing the finality of discord? Do you remember, Mr. Mas, the year 2006, who went to the notaries to marginalize a political party? Do you remember, Mr. Mas, in 2006, who went to the notary to marginalize the People's Party? Is that not creating discord against a democratic party? Honestly, isn't that discord? This has been done by you and your party – this has been done by you and your party – this is the reality, there is no other. There is an evidence, and it is that you have devoted yourselves to looking for an outside enemy constantly to try to cover up your shortcomings like the Government of Catalonia, to try to cover up your lack of credibility before Catalan society. And of course from the People's Party we listen to each other, more than we agree or not; but, man, don't give us examples of acts... – you were talking about economic policy now – don't give us examples of acts organized by associations with a very clear affinity for independence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no... listen, you told me you'd come with me, in action, huh? And it'll take me to certain places, huh? And I will accompany you – I will accompany you – to the places, and we will not go to see business associations. You know what? We're going to see small entrepreneurs, we're going to see locals, we're going to see small and medium-sized businesses, and I'm explaining to them..., and you explain to them, Mr. But, that we want to break Catalonia with the rest of Spain when these companies, the main customers, are from Aragó, Valencia, Murcia..., they're not from the United States, they're from these communities, because, as you know – and I know you know – the main customers – the main customers – of Catalan businesses are not French, they're not Italian, they're clients of Aragó, of València and of Múrcia. And to these Catalan businesses, Mr. But, you explained it to them, huh? That we must break Catalonia with the rest of Spain. And he will see with what joy the Rebbe to you – he will see with what joy the Rebbe to you. O when he talks about inversions – o when he talks about inversions. Listen, how do you refer to the fact that the State does not invest in the port of Barcelona, when it is you who are holding up this investment? The one at the port of Barcelona is you, with the theme of the train line, are putting up with you. Mr. Puig, you're putting up with it, which is enlargement in the port of Barcelona. You're hanging on, the government you're part of. And they know that this is a reality. And here you spoke of the lack of reversal on the part of the State, and I remembered it, and said, "I don't know what it takes..., an AVE don't know where, where there are no people, the goddess of the rest of Spain. Ah! Of course, this is very good: when Catalonia is the first community in Spain, the first autonomous community in Spain that connects the four provincial capitals to AVE, it is very good. [[Funnel veils]] – No, no, we were the first. That's fine, saying that the rest of Spain don't need EVS, because they don't have people. How do you want people not to fall for the rest of Spain, if they say so? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Greetings.]] No, I'm sorry I told you. How do you want him not to fall..., to have a problem, Mr. Mas, of sympathy with the rest of Spain, when you are saying that as Catalonia, thanks to the Government of the People's Party, is connected by AVE in the four provinces, you point out, you have just said that in the rest of Spain, that for four who take the train, they do not need it? [[Rialles.]] Man, like Catalans we have the right to have AVE, so do the citizens of the rest of Spain, it seems to me – it seems to me. Therefore, I would ask you for a little balance. And tolls... and we can also talk about tolls, of course we can. Do you know, Counselor, what's the biggest toll because there is at these times in Catalonia? The generalities, the ones the generalities have. Is that so? - Is that so? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Well, so, now, listen to me: the busiest tolls in Catalonia are the Generality's. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, man, I recommend, counsel, that before you ask me, you analyze what he said, because I got it... I can answer them all, huh? If you ask me in order, I answer them all, but in principle it seems to me that the candidate is Mr. Mas; but I, delighted to answer all the questions of the independenceist bench. [[Widow's remorse.]] They're independent, aren't they? [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, I heard you did? So, I didn't say re!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.46.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.47.0	They don't miss...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.48.0	...respect the word tower, which is not a dialect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.49.0	Thank you, Madam President. I've already told you that you don't have a social majority... there's one thing you've done to me very much, Mr. Mas; really, huh? , and that this does not require being President of the Generality. He said: "We want a better system of financing, because we do not want to make details. Here. Neither I was mayor, nor the government of Spain. "As there is a crisis situation, I have to make adjustments, I want others to give me more money, because I don't want to make details. No one wants it. Or is it that you want to say that the Government of Spain has "enjoyed when it has had to adjust its assumptions? Of course not. But the economic reality of this country and the reality of the European Union was what it was, and it forced us all to make adjustments. And I have to tell him that some adjustments have been made in Catalonia, and I recognize that – and I recognize that. Now, I do want to insist that it seems to me that the attitude you have had in the past few years seems tremendously insolidary from an institutional point of view and from a point of view of responsibility of a political leader. Other questions you've identified... it's funny, huh? He started by referring to what he wants to seduce, what he wants to fall in love with, who are the two congressmen and congressmen of the CUP, and he said, he came to say, huh? , more or less: "I want them to vote for me. Then we'll see what happens. Let them vote with..., well, « let them vote with me the investiture. Ask 'em at the end they want to... give themselves support to the assumptions. And he pointed out: "Why are you willing to give support to assumptions in social, economic policies...? Ah! Ah, my friend! Totally free. You want us from the People's Party of Catalonia to support economic and fiscal policies, but on the condition that you don't give up your rupturistic adventure. Listen, this isn't serious – this isn't serious – this isn't... I'm telling you, Mr. But: you took refuge, you gave up this adventure, you renounced Catalonia from the rest of Spain, and I'm sure that here the bench of this coast, like at least, we'll be ready – all of us, huh? – to speak because Catalonia emerges from this situation. Or do you perhaps believe, Mr. Mas, that those who claim to seduce, who are members of the CUP, the deputies of anti-system independenceists, will form only by supporting them and not by influencing the economic, social or fiscal policies that the government that they have allowed to invest? You're still serious, you're still responsible. That's what I'm really worried about, and I've said it before and I'm going to say it again – and I'm going to say it again –: I'm listening to a government in Catalonia that has an anti-system party, a party that wants to get out of the European Union, that wants to get out of the euro, a crazy party, I'm really worried about it – I'm really worried about it. [[Widow's remorse.]] I worry enormously, and I say so very clearly. That's why, Mr. More, after listening to your intervention [[the remorse of the voice persists]] ...take a little silence, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.50.0	There seems to be silence, Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.51.0	Thank you, President. That is why, Mr. Mas, after listening to your intervention, I must say to you that it is obvious that you have done, with the performance that is due to the end and the interventions that have led to the end of the two days – a thought to the historical trajectory of Convergence and Union. You have constantly complained about the work done, which has been built among all; in one part of the history of this country building, therefore, you have had an important role, and it is obvious, listening to your interventions, that at these times you are making a statement about this. It is, with its actions, breaking something as important as the constitutional pact that we were able to..., that we were to pull forward among all, among the political leaders that were there at the time in our country. And it's time for an adventure that you, me and most of us here know and have the absolute conviction that it's harmful to the interests of the vast majority of Catalans. And you, in your more intimate background, you know, Mr. But, that's what this is. Therefore, I would like to finish my reply or counter-reply to his intervention, to his statements, tell him that we deeply regret what we have been listening to both during the day of ahir and at the length of the day of avui..., which causes us sadness and sorrow to see the political situation that we are currently living in Catalonia, due exclusively to the irresponsibility of a president and a government that have dedicated themselves exclusively over the last few years to trying to break, to try to divide, to try to separate Catalan society between good and bad. And I conclude as I have begun, not repeating the intervention, the speech of Abraham Lincoln, but pointing out that, unfortunately, we have been able to see over these last two days, over the last two hours, how in Catalonia at the moment a candidate is presented where his approach, his ideological basis, his concept of what the present and future of Catalonia has to be are based on four concepts: his political weakness, his submission to the radicals of the UPC, the lie to look guilty in third parties and his hatred of everything that represents Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.52.0	Next, the speaker is Mr Antonio Baños, president of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.53.0	Madam President... Mr President... (Pause.) Ladies and gentlemen, we often say that we are a people. It's a truth and, also, a wish. Because this town alone, this yearling and this magnificent project, is today in a serious danger. This town is divided, it is divided and separated between the winners of the race – which some still call "crisis" – and the part of the country that is slowly, persistently and systemically expelled not only from what they call the social ascent, but from society itself, from life with right and dignity. Our people, the popular classes, the menestralia, the precariousness, migrants, the pages, women and, finally, the middle classes have seen not only how they lose rights: we have witnessed the finding that the so-called democratic forms of representation and that the same governments institutions in the service of the people were laying, without doubt or a second, on the side of the powerful, with arguments such as "to do their dues, "to pay their debts or to be saved. The abst of these arguments... we have only now understood all its cruelty. Allow me to follow a new parliamentary tradition that compañera Anna Gabriel started yesterday and that consists of quoting Julià de Jòdar – tradition that I hope is some of the highlights of republican parliamentaryism – when she said in Julià that the problem of detail affects the majority, the problem of patriarchy affects the majority, the problem of school and ecology affect us all, but in change, the minority and their interests are affected by privatisation, bank bailouts and corruption. It is this, this panorama described by Julià de Jòdar, the central process, the spring of the bone from which we pass to our societies. This is the great maneuver, the assault of some obscenely wealthy minorities on the people, on the majority, on all of us. This process of exclusion, of exclusion from economic life, has, however, led the country to a paradoxical process, to an inclusive process; better, to invasion of public life and political life. This Parliament is now an example: Members and majorities formed by people of the street, by people who see long political traditions of party merit or mandarinity administered. Because everything, the first thing and the second thing are connected. If the people came out on the 15th street, protested with the tides and became an activist with the PAH, or if September 11th – the September 11th – went out massively on the street, they did it for a lot of sounding, resonant reasons: they did it to recover the sovereignty. Sovereignty about salvation, about labor rights, about the body, sovereignty over the right to sort out any sexual option – and from here to remember one of the great threads of this Parliament, which is the Law against Homophobia –, sovereignty as a people and as a class, as a class pride. We are the children, the fruits of the triple crisis that David Fernàndez was talking about in his 2012 investment speech: social, democratic and national. These children, to put it this way, are – or som – in Parliament, and we are still on the street. This is the situation from which we come, this is the sugar from which we flee, these are the forces that we have today and here to radically transform, "revolutionary, let us day," I don't know if they agree with the term – the reality of Catalonia; a reality that – we agree with the presidential candidate – now demands strength and courage. And, described the situation, the complex situation, but we believe that hopefully, we explain our vote. And our vote, as we have already said, is that we will vote 'no to the candidacy, and for various reasons. First, because, as we said during the election campaign, Arthur Mas' candidacy seemed to us to have two deep problems. The first, of course, is its management since 2010 of the Autonomy Administration – then I'll be a little bit more on this issue. But neither the crisis nor the direct orders of foranal and superior power institutions, while certainly being and expedient, do not explain nor justify, in our opinion, many of the privatizing decisions of services, of maturity up to the collapsing of sanitation and education or lack of cleanness at the root of an administration that every day surprise us with cases of corruption of unfathomable abst, now for now. The other reason for which we would vote that it is not, is equally important, but we believe that it has a projection for the immediate future that makes us present it not so much as a reconstruction and an affluence of the process, as many have gone through these days, but as the opportunity to shield the construction of the republic. This motion, we have quite explained, is to transcend personalism, which we perceive as weakened, with a consensus, and overcome with this, with this consensus, the autonomous dynamics. We have, of course, from yesterday, a third motion not to vote in favour of your candidacy, Mr. Mas. It's the one from the speech he made yesterday. From the speech he made yesterday, the Constituent CUP could not remove the interlocking of what kind of government we would have, whether autonomous or clearly new and unequivocal republican face. It is true that the candidate, in his speech, broke down a series of laws which he intended to deploy, some – it is true, too – of undoubted importance and urgency, such as the process of constituting, social security or public history. But he jumped in a glaring way over absolutely phonemental questions. He spoke, of course, of transparency measures, but in no case did he explain what the country is urgently asking for: raising the captives that have accumulated in thirty-five years of autonomy a corruption that we understand structurally. Glossed yesterday's speech, which did not give us any certainty that the new government would transcend autonomy, allow me to insist on overcoming the three crises, that we believe they must be the key and inescapable task of this first republican government and that they articulate it "not to this investment." First they say it's the economic crisis, but for us it's the social crisis, a crisis that hasn't ended. Deien, and we want to quote on the 40th anniversary of the assassination of Pier Paolo Pasolini, a fantastic phrase from one of his films, which I think Enric Juliana will like the quote, Uccellacci and birds, when they say: "For a rich man, dying is like paying the bill of life. Pay, that's right, but life gave him everything. Tanmateix, the poor pay the same, but life has not given him anything. What do the poor do, then? Moving from one death to another death. That's how they see it. That's how we live. That's how we mallive in this way to go by, to go busy, to go wasting our energies and our joys. This death in life has been installed in the spheres of Catalonia. Only two data, from the Idescat of the past year: this 26_per_cent of the country's population that is found in the slump and the most tragic yet, if possible, 28.8 of the young people up to seven years old also at risk of poverty. And this isn't an accident, this isn't an accident. This is the program that the great global powers and the mesall local powers have for us, to make us go bad. "We consolidate the recovery," said Mr. Mas yesterday. "The crisis is over," they say, "media and economic power. Perhaps the crisis has ended for many of you, for us the misery has begun. The misery of the people of the street begins, and it is a misery that, as always, has worked from a mantra, the essential mantra of capitalism. He gave a minister of economics to the French king Lluís Felipe, Mr. Guizot, when he said: "Enrich yourselves. Before the crisis, for two years, and still during the worst of the crisis, we felt this voice, this mandate: "Enrich yourselves. Depleting us is the counterpart of this mandate. The government of the best, the business friendly, maybe that's what it was: give more to what they had so that today they can have it all. Externalize to carry more far and do more cost what are basic rights. This process does not come again, this process is constant and is said to be capitalism, and we believe that it is incompatible with life, we have always said so. Von Hayek, who I don't know how many of you in this room are followers, was already talking in the 40's about how to put the spontaneous order of the market to protect the ballot box; it's to say, don't let people's votes fight the good deals. Walter Wriston, another gurus of neoliberalism, also defined this process as the decline of the sobrieties. It's the big leap forward planned for neoliberalism. It is to say that the government that since 2010 has been self-defining, I have already said, as business friendly actually participated enthusiastically in the principle, more disguised now, we have to admit, in this move to give more power to the powerful. Why, in order to set an example that was also mentioned this morning, what a sovereignist is a political force that can vote in favour of the TTIP, a treaty that stripes people of rights and sovereignty to give power to multinationals and lobbyists? And if we're talking about sobriety and sobriety, while we're fighting and disobing a court like the constitutional one in order to be able to apply the modest decree of energy poverty, we know that Endesa recorded a net benefit of 870_million euros only in the first half of the year. While we are struggling and disobeying a court like the constitutional one in order to be able to apply a tax on bank deposits, the six main financial entities of the State have grown more than 67_per_cent this first quarter– not even six months–, that is, they have gained more than 4,100_million benefits in these first three months of the year. The 5,300_millions of unfunded retails that the government says it has been forced to do and that we have all suffered in this country, these retails of basic services can be contrasted without great arithmetic difficulty with the 5,520_millions of benefits that two entities, CaixaBank and Sabadell, have obtained since 2010. Who are the sovereigns? They or us? We're a three-seven-year-old country. One is that 16,000_million euros, roughly, that constitute the chronic and disproportionate – let us not deny it – fiscal imbalance between Catalonia and the Spanish State; but these 16,000, however much aired for some, is not the only one. Seventeen is also the approximate figure in which tax fraud can be calculated in Catalonia: EUR 16,000_million; and the third is that of the 2010 retail price, 5,300_million retail price, is equivalent to another seven: 16_percent of the wealth of the richest Catalan gods. To say the least, 16,000 go to Madrid, 16,000 go to Andorra and the others enjoy Catalonia for an elite for which the crisis has not been more than a superb opportunity to expand assets. The country we have, not to say, is not even the good country we want. [[Said the Lord But, and blamed the Spanish State, you said yesterday that "we could have passed... and I think we could have quoted it literally."We could have passed without detail if we had a similar state. Okay. This argument is not automatically so, as you know perfectly. Many established and ancient states, such as Greece or even all of France, have applied brutal retailing, against, and even against, an explicit popular will, as is the case with Greece. It is, therefore, not a question of being propitious, or not merely propitious, it is a question of political will or, even better, it is a problem of political loyalty, of wanting to serve your people over the instructions of lobbyists, speculators and bureaucrats. A good state does not guarantee a dignified life, a state fruit of popular sovereignty, which undoubtedly knows who it serves, it does.]] It is absolutely certain that the abuse of the Spanish State to its administrations and to the nations of Spain is systematic and historical– secular, we could say – but we do not love privatizations, sell assets and live with corruption with the only argument that the Spanish State blames it exclusively. Deia Bakunin... – does not panic–, said Bakunin to his free Home and Nationality that "the dignity of all born – like that of each person – must rarely in the fact that each one accepts full responsibility for his or her actions without moving it to anyone else, and therefore independence must be the opposite of victimism on which all autonomous scenery has been built. No more complaints or deviation from responsibility; this too, Mr President, is the price of freedom. It's true that our autonomy was tied up, but it's not, as we're proving these days all the members of this chamber and the people out there, that disobedience was not possible; it was and is. And it is clear that the impotence of political power towards real, real, and practical power forces and forces resistance, is now inevitable. The second crisis that we always highlight is the democratic crisis, which we want to link to the crisis of autonomy and the crisis that comes from this system, which is customerism. Yesterday we said that the president in his speech forgot about corruption. It was his prerogative and he took up or moved, I don't know, the subject from future laws of transparency. The candidate knows and the country knows that this issue has been one of the axes of our political activity, both in the streets, in the assemblies, as well as the parliamentary work that we have done in the last legislature and that we will do in this legislature. And in this struggle we have always insisted that corruption was not just a disease or a symptom, it is a biorhythm of the institutions of the regime. We have always said, the 78 rule, the autonomy rule, is structurally corrupt. If the territories spend and do not recapture, if the financing is structured and built from a dealer known by the General Administration of the State and said famous players, if the parties become intermediaries between the Administration and the big company, corruption cannot be either the error or the exception. Corruption is the system and the norm. And the empirical evidence that autonomy kept corruption was the process, the process of independence. As a matter of fact, more cases of corruption are unravelling. This historic pact to cover up the shames of each other while everyone is doing well – and we understand what it's like to do well –, this practice of punishing the rebels with cases and crimes that everyone knows but that no one was talking about it, has skipped ever since the people, I insist, the people of this country, decided to be rebellious and inclusive with corruption, with the corrupt here and with the corrupt and the arresting facilitators. You're empirical. And we speak clearly: the process is not a product of corruption, it is the process that raises corruption. The more we disobey, the more we know about the regime and its invisible bastide, the more favors paid under my hand. A few years ago, in Rajoy he said: « Generality – « Generality, he should say – « is to do other things, to make roads and little more. Now we understand why those reelers are done: perhaps it was to collect our commissions. The process, moreover, has unleashed a practice that we already know is structural as well: the use of corruption, the delay and manipulation of data, tax data, police data, with political ends. And in the case we're dealing with, like a weapon, a very clear weapon, against the independence process. This is an old idea that once had a Spanish prime minister who was said to be Cánovas del Castillo during the long and long war in Cuba, more than sixty years ago, when he said that "with a pair of ballets," he said, "lucky ballets, the cube problem was over. One bullet against General Maceo and one bullet against Maximo Gómez. "If we attack the leader, the state thought in the war in Cuba and now thinks, "movement stops. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, The cases uncovered did not cause that, at least in the CUP, we were embolized with no flag or looked at other places. No corruption, no crude war – no corruption, no crude war. The Spanish State, we agree, neither speaks nor listens, is a state said to be indissoluble, but degradable, with a tradition and vocation of deafness and political mutism as persistent as its expression through justices, police and all kinds of repression. Come now, after describing this state, to the national crisis. The process, and we are all in agreement, is at a decisive moment, and we vote "not because, by paraphrase Espriu, we believe that often a man has to sacrifice himself for a people, but never a people has to sacrifice itself – in this case, he has to stop – for a single man. We don't want, we don't like, it's not good for the country, and we think it's even bad for the republic, that we identify a country with a person. That's what we've been through. That Pujol is Catalonia of the sixties, an expression of one of the Catalanisms that fought against the dictatorship, came about, and so much so that we suffered, in a system where person, country and party were the same thing. Or, to be more precise, it would make you think you were the same thing. That's why we also vote no. We don't believe in the fever of this movement. We rebel before the idea that without a person all that we have made 2 million Catalans and Catalans will be debatable. "Everything is necessary," said the president yesterday. « No one left, he insisted. And he's right. We need, and we want, and we will get, a strong government, that works as soon as possible. That no one doubted it. That's what we're working for. But a government cannot be reduced to a person. A government, this government, does not have to be the expression of a single voice, not just a person's voice, but a political idea..., but that of everyone. We want to say that every day during the campaign: we are the guarantee that this will be done and that it will be done well, and that it will be carried out in full sailing, in order to employ marine half-hours, while many powers and many representatives of some powers, more or less hidden, want this process to continue in the Republic at the same time or at the same time as a calm girl. You, Mr. But, and I say it as a merit, without any irony, have drifted, that is, sailing along the currents, the currents that marked our people strongly. And this was one of his uncertainties. He copied... and put the ballot boxes when we asked for them; he reached out to the clam, which already existed, and which, as we always say, is everyone's, and not just a few people's. And he sailed, motored, and rem. And we recognize that. But, to end the nautical, even though he knows that « governing sees of the Greek« piloting a ship, let's quote that it is of Robert Louis Stevenson, who in knowing a niu, of storms, and of navigations wide and « dangerous: « For a good periple– said the writer– « the important one is the crew, that folds and unfolds veils, that row when lime, that cleans bodegas– I would say « sentries, in the case of català– « that if it changes official and unofficial, and before the storm is caused by the timor. Mr. Mas, candidate, today will not come out of this hemicle made captain. But I have no doubt that the crew is there, that the country has it and has it ready to move forward. What do we want? Because we've been told that we just want to get numb, we want to dissolve, and we don't want to take responsibility for our political work. It's not true. The CUP is looking at the independence majority, and what do you see? Seventy-two deputies, the independence majority that goes from Christian democracy to anti-capitalism. All ideologies, all territories, all origins and all languages. We look and we don't see the confrontation between Junts for Yes and the CUP. We see a town represented with its diversity and its antagonisms. Well represented, both of us, and we don't want to scare them under one voice. We want to put them in value, diversity and antagonisms, from the old political practice of consensus. There are seventy-two of us, and this is the authentic ship's tresor. And that is why we are voting not for the candidate, hopefully, and perhaps for sure, that we will achieve a government that sets the differences in harmony and that you do not set for monotony. We want, I insist once more, a strong government, already republican, that takes over all the backs of the social rescue, "the well-being to the wound, as we do today, that everyone knows that we are many half-hours, that shields the rights and freedoms that this statement of November 9 gave to all of us. Many people tell us about the street, and they tell us in an appropriate way, and rightly so, perhaps, when they say: "Agree. And that, too, is what we want to do, not vote today. From time to time the CUP has proposed models and solutions that transcend what is meant by the Government of the Generality, to design a government that is republic. We have always said that we will neither derail nor rise from the table the first. These are things that we have also said together with the « no to More. I said that, too. And they're things they do every day. Ferrater Mora, in that free delight which is said The forms of Catalan life, and which I recommend to everyone, said: "The Catalans could exaggerate our virtues to make them the least pleasant vices. In any case, it would still be true that the plot of these vices were virtuous, and so we could return to our original source. The virtue of complexity, the richness of the political debate, the virtue of the firm will of consensus on broad issues, are virtues that can never be seen, even though they repeat it, as vice. "Agree, tell us the people in the street. And that's what we do. Even today. To agree is not to accept anything else. To agree is to give in, to accept, to speak and to consent. It is not time for passive, or automatic, or unbreakable accessions that, as in sinister times, are required of the population. It's not time for a critical dance. It's building time, majority time and consensus time. That's what we're thinking. These last few weeks we listen often that some Members do not have the legitimacy to condition what they seem to defend sixty-two Members. These past few weeks we've been listening all the time, and for all the media that the minority can't determine the majority. Again and again, we have heard that it is only fitting that the CUP - Creed constitute yielding two affirmed votes and that with eight abstentions, thus numerically counting the abst of our decision, we would get out of this atzucac. In short, these weeks we attend a permanent arithmetic exercise. But we don't set up politics with arithmetic exercises, and less parliamentary arithmetic. In fact, we have often gone from traditional parliamentary dynamics, as you all know. Just because not everything that stands in the way of the parliamentary custom is worth maintaining and perpetuating. And secondly, because at this point in time, in a context of exceptionality, of laying the foundations of a republic, we come to ensure, or so we want to do, that we do things differently; we come to ensure, and so we do, that the republic is established in new forms; we come to ensure that we all contribute the best of ourselves, and we come to make the present and the future, as we see it, not assemble in the past. And, therefore, and despite the willingness to reduce it to an arithmetic question insistently, for us the decision around the presidency is a decision of country, of historical abst. For us, the decision around everything we do is of high responsibility. And we also said, and so do we, from the height of our eyes. We ask that you do not want to see in our position a simple numerical calculation. And, therefore, if you allow me some irony, I quote Pasolini with those verses that say: "How tired, learn the freedom that they have after us. That no one is wrong with us. Because neither the consultation nor the September 27 elections nor the process started yesterday morning are either a pact or a currency of change. They are neither victories nor defeats of the CUP on Junts per el Si. They are commitments made with popular movement and inescapable democratic mandates. The process doesn't shut down, because no one can shut it down. No one is left, let's go; everyone is needed, let's go. But no one is indispensable. As a 15-M sign resembling at Plaça Catalunya..., he said: "If anyone, at some point..., you think you are essential, go home, rest and come back tomorrow. If you'll allow me, President, I'll turn you in, in this case. We, even though only one of them stands out, have said many things, in this campaign, things that we have always said: that we will be the last to rise from the table, and so we will; we have said that they are the guarantee that the republic does not and grows solid, and strengthen itself with the diversity of these seventy-two Members, and we have also said and maintain that we need to expand the social base of independence. We want and need more people, people who example and conform a majority that wanders from social democracy, as I said before, from Christian democracy, to the transformative and anti-capitalist left. For another gang, we have an enemy, and it is obvious that he has put the machine..., to what they like so much to say of "the machinery of the state, blind and deaf machine towards the people, for other gangs. And in front of the machinery and its bogeymen, we only have people. And before this State, we have the Catalans that we now live and we suffer from what Macia has already been certain to describe: "The freedom of Catalonia must be the work of a profound captivation that eliminates the elements that are hostile to it: monarchy, institutions and conservative organizations and you will react. That is why if these powers begin to threaten us with disqualifications, they will arrest, slash liquidities, suspicious autonomy or police controls, and all the plagues invoked for the reaction of the State, that they know they don't want us. More dark times have preceded us, more dark decades have lived hundreds of thousands of Catalan and Catalan resistance during the 20th century. It will not be for the utterances of the mouthpieces of this Agonic Rule that we will now make a step back. And who goes in who wants to go to Diagonal, or who goes in who wants to go to the air bridge, that this is an open and crowded country. But no one likes to try to prevent the democratic process from becoming independent, nor to silence the voices that have brought us to this chamber. We've said it over and over again: Sovereignty is never pygmy, it's practice. Allow'manar to end up with an emplacement. Remember, President Mas, in David Fernández when he said to him: "Puny closed with the flaps and stretched out to defend the rights of our people? It's got a big hand. And more: you have our bodies before the attacks of the Bourbon State; you also have the table where all the people compromise with the Republic, everything; you have our hours, and you have our commitment to pull this forward. But you do not have, nor will you, we have already told you, our unconditional vote. Anyway, allow'more to end, and make a reflection and a placement also linked with David Fernández, I quote St. Augustine of Hippon, which he also did; although this phrase is not endorsed as his own, but let us say that it would be well bound in David with St. Augustine and St. Augustine with my person. It is a phrase that made fortune, and that says: "In needy, unite; in doubt, free, and in all, charity. It is to say: in that which is necessary, in that which is indispensable, united; in that which is questionable, freedom, and for all, above all, friendship, love, joy and concord. What is needed, what we have now, is a legitimate, explicit and majority mandate to bring the Catalan Republic forward. That's the warrant, and it's not others. And for this mandate, I insist, seventy-two Members and Members. And the unit is guaranteed with a political tape as transcendent as the declaration and annex, the fruit of the unit, the fruit of the sense of country and the result of the republican will that we approved on the 9th. This will always keep us together. In what is questionable, freedom. That no one blames us for wanting to discuss, to debate, to seek consensus. The freedom not to give in fact to what we do not believe, the freedom to pose in question to what they tell us is unquestionable. This can never be near as an irresponsible, inconsistent, or little compromise position with a project that has since decades left independentist defense, rebroadcasts, multiples, arrested and exiles. And for all things, and in all things, I will not read it every man, and in all things, praise, charity. We know we'll get out of it, because that's not even what we're in this room. This is the will of an organized and mobilized people. It is the responsibility of the people who are not independentist also evil for a radical change of their empty and political institutions. The CUP, which we are voting on today, is a loyal proclamation to the Catalan Republic. This one, the one we have now. Today, we vote "no to the candidate But, let us say that we are much more committed than ever to defend this majority and why form government. Jo, now, finally... a little personal reflection. I... you know it's not even sixty days since I'm a politician. Before, she was one of those people who got married on the street and who suffered so much: "Ah! , on fire very much, "not on fire negute... With all reason, too. And I'm afraid and I see you all here, to you, President, and the members of this chamber, many of them, when we have no date, no question, and apathy: "What will this people do? When we did not have the 9-N also disease: "There will be no ballot boxes; can we put them down? We had data, question, we did 9-N. We also suffered because you did not call the early elections, as we thought it would be. But he called them in. We won them and we're here. Now I'm still painting, because I'm a good català. That's got to be it. But for the first time, you two guys at the CUP, and I myself have another negit, which is getting out of it. I don't fail. We act, as Macia also said, "with ferestega intransigence in defense of the freedoms of Catalonia. We have voted that "no, but we don't look back, we don't turn around, we won't do pussy and we won't have to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds in a hemicicle sector.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.54.0	To answer, the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.55.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baños..., well, I can't say that you're happy with the 'no, it's obvious that we can't be at all, because an investment debate is precisely done to choose a president and because things start to work from the government's point of view; the investment debate is for that reason. And if it doesn't turn out well, then we can't be satisfied – I guess you don't have to be at all either – because if this doesn't just roll, even though we have time ahead of us, it means we have an objective difficulty and we have to try to get out of it, all folded up. This unfortunate finding – let's say this – on my part – and let's say that I also have a little bit of good-natured and irony, the just one – tell him that I take his words at the back; not at the back, at the back, but almost at the back. You said to me: "You said again. I'll be back, huh? We'll get back to you and talk about it again. I suppose that's not the "Come back tomorrow. No, no, Anyway, it would be the day after tomorrow. I will return, therefore, but not because I have to see, this, as a personalist subject, as you pointed out, but rather because I will return, I insist – I said this morning – we have a parliament constituted recently, with a president, with a _month; the president has made a round of meetings with all of you, with the main heads of political formations; she has listened, listened to you, and has come to the conclusion that the proposal that Juntes makes for the Yes – so, it is not personalist – the proposal that Juntes makes for the Yes, which is sixty-two deputies and deputies, that yesterday I remember that they did not win by the majority alone, it is obvious, but that they have reached 40_percent of the votes that have been made for the past forty-six members and deputies, that they have been sent to the Council – all but one member of the European Parliament. And that's what we did. And I will, indeed, make you say, among other things, because the standards of this Parliament say that in an investment debate there are two votes: the first, which requires an absolute majority, is obviously that today this will not be, because the last ones that were to be spoken were you..., go, stay together for the Yes, but... [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] I suppose you won't be surprised at that. [[Rialles.]] Clearly, I intervened in Turull... well, I don't know if that's a guarantee or not, huh? But... I say again, beyond the irony – which I hope you will excuse me – since we have a ‘no, and it's the..., it's not the transcendent, isn't it? because ultimately it's the result of this investiture vote, let's put a little, so, in a good mood, which will surely convince all of us. You gave that to him, didn't you? , that the standards of this Parliament say that there are two votes. The second is not for the most part absolute, it's for the most part simple. They're quieter than we are. I know it's not easy either, I know it perfectly well, but since you invite me to come back, not just to the standards of the house, but because this is an invitation that I want to hear that you have this point of self-constructing and enabling, so I'm very pleased to submit to this second debate, this week's saying, this second vote, and from here you will decide. And you will decide now, before you enter this point, which will surely be the last one I will comment on, you would also like to make a little appreciation of some comments that you have made. I'm not going to go in very deep, but I do think he did it in one way, so, you, deep, and that you need a comment. You said: "We will vote that not for three things," he said: "We will vote that not for you– for me–" for three things. U, for autonomous management. I here, Mr. Baths, disagree kindly, because I don't understand that a formation that is looking to the future and that says: "We don't have to complain about being used as an argument for autonomous management. What are we staying at? Are we in the autonomic area or are we in the postautonomic area? If one of your three arguments is autonomy as I've known it so far, to me, Mr. Baths, I'm a little confused. I'm just trying not to get confused, huh? But a little bewildered, because I see that the CUP is taking up an argument that I, concretely, did not expect. I mean, putting the emphasis on self-management I don't know if that's what he called us in this legislature. You said to me: "I thank him for having, therefore, put the ballot boxes on 27 September. They'd put themselves on other occasions, etc. But you will remember, Mr. Baths, that putting the ballot boxes at this time was not – and it was explained so, and you think you agreed – to face an autonomous legislature, it was precisely to overcome autonomy. And I mentioned it explicitly in my speech yesterday, I said: "Every day of this legislature that we are starting, every day less autonomy and every day more state. To get where? To the sencer state, to the complete state! This legislature is for this! , not to manage autonomy. Now, as we have autonomy and we can't give up now either, because we wouldn't feel it, before we have the sanctity, the autonomy we have, so we'll have to use it. That's why I made an explicit reference to a whole series of things that we'll have to do in any case, because I don't suppose anyone would give up responsibly helping people in our country to pull through with the tools we have available. We know that they are few or not enough, equally good for resources; but what we have, we have the obligation to use it. But the focus is not here, the focus of this legislature is on another area, which is that of the construction of the State, and that is why we have a mandate, Mr. Bathrooms – for this we have a mandate. And, therefore, allow me, therefore, in this case inconsistently, kindly, I insist, because I do not understand that an argument follows autonomous management. You, for example, talk to me about privatizations; I explained right and wrong. I know that it bothers you that from time to time, therefore, you serve public is management from the private sphere, but keep one thing in mind: the country has done this. And I'm not talking about autonomy, I'm talking about the country. When we didn't have a_gram and a_millimeter of own decision-making capacity in the form of government, and we've been through without that, someone in the country that wasn't public had to take responsibility for pulling forward. And that's what it was in the education camp, and that's what it was in the social camp, and that's what it was in the health camp, and many others. And this is our country. And I'm telling you one thing, Mr. Baths; you don't know if you'll agree with this, probably not, but I'm telling you, the fruit of my experience: there are countries of the European Union that are countries with similar states, more advanced than ours from many points of view, with more solid democracies, probably of higher quality, with states of welfare, that look to Catalonia precisely for its ability to collaborate between the public and the private world. Look at Catalonia, and they see it as a rich, they see it as a treasure, and so on. And if that's right, it certainly doesn't happen, because the country has been built this way and it can continue to be built this way; which doesn't mean that the public sphere has to give up. And I say it again and I assure you one thing – I have repeated it a thousand times, it doesn't look like one –: if you have had to privatize some things in these past years..., that many times they are not privatizations, as you call them, but they are concessions that you are making for a limited time, that you can recover past the terms of concessions, and that already depends on the governments that are going on in the country. If this was done for a reason alone, and only one – only one – that was to get tickets so that we didn't have to do so many details that forced us to do it from the outside; only for that reason. I don't want you to applaud him, I understand he's been discussing it, I understand everything; but let's know, as a matter of fact, that the reason has been this, and not another – and not another. And so, well, why do we need this money and not do any more detail? So, this morning I've been explaining it, and it's late at some point, too. We need, for example, this in something that you think will agree with. Do we need to improve equal opportunities in this country? Mr. Baths, that's it. How are the opportunities of the people of this country improved? With better training and more training. If you are looking, for example, at the indexes, the evolution of school success in Catalonia in these past years, you will see that it has increased, all the while, and that the emphasis has been placed, where? : in the educational centres that had the most problems to go forward and give precisely this equal opportunity. That's what happened. And that doesn't have to be surprising from a point of view of social justice, and less from the CUP. Now, to do that, Mr. Baths, we need resources. And part of those resources came out of this, because, if not, there would have been more detail, because I remember one thing, and you too, Mr. Baths..., and you think that – even though it's relatively new, huh? And a few days ago it is, but you already know that, because, more than that, we have had occasion at some point to comment publicly, etcetera, right? You know perfectly well that the margin of financial autonomy of the Government of Catalonia is very little; therefore, we do not manage our resources, there is no financial autonomy. And when you don't have financial autonomy and you're responsible for public services, but not the regulations and not the treasury, that's to say, you can't change the rules, many times, and you can't pay directly, because you don't receive taxes, you're in the middle of the sandwich, you're in the middle of the warehouse, that means someone does the rules and someone controls the money, and you have to donate the face because those public services work as best as possible. And this sometimes forces you to make decisions so as not to harm these public services, which means people's interest, which means equal opportunities. I talked to him, for example, about school success, I could also talk to him about the evolution of vocational training in our home. Do we all agree that with more professional training, with more people with professional training, more opportunities to find work and better wages? Hear that we agree that precisely this country – and not just this, also the joint venture of Spain – had we abandoned the subject of vocational training and had not been given the importance that it had to have? So, this is changing at these moments. Now it's exactly the reverse, now it's giving it a lot of importance, at this point. Recently this Parliament passed a law of qualification and vocational training, which is an advanced law that will allow us to finish giving the fall, together with all the talent that we have incorporated into this world by teachers, teachers in general, and now, lately, by the companies that have joined to form young people, and sometimes not so many young people, but older people who go to vocational training another time to improve their opportunities. All this requires resources, Mr. Baths, and they haven't given it to us, they've given us much less than they give us, we have the fiscal deficit that you yourself reported. And that's not a complaint, it's the description of reality, it's the cause that's brought us so many of these effects. And, besides, we can't ask for credit, because they won't grant it to us. And this is reality, Mr. Baths, and we have to face reality. It's not nice for the government to do according to what, but you have to face reality, if you want to do things because people are better off. And now I haven't described a few. How do you think the cost of applying the Law of Dependency and Personal Autonomy has been paid? So, I'm making decisions, Mr. Baths, because the money wasn't there; the money, the state was regatting us. And that's not a complaint, it's a description of reality. The law was Spanish, it was state; the resources are taken back by them, but the great people and the disabled people we have in the country, and it is the Generalita who has to give them the benefits. And that requires so much as making decisions to get resources, precisely, so that we don't have to go into more detail. And you will say to me: "Home, but you could have imposed taxes! And this morning I said it: we put no more than anyone. And I was wondering if it wasn't part of our show. You still have a right to defend your program, don't you? Yours, others yours, etc. But we have, because we have seen the social urgency of the country. And you said to me at a certain point: "You have given more power to the powerful. I think it's not fair, Mr. Baths, this statement, and as a minimum I'll give him some argument because you see... I don't think I have to... go, I don't ask him to take it back, because I'm sure he won't, but as a minimum he balances it a little. Do you think it's giving more power to the powerful to put a tax on the empty floors of the funded entities? That doesn't have to be giving more power to the powerful, does it? Is it giving more power to the powerful to impose a tax on bank deposits? This must not be giving more power to the powerful. Is it giving more power to the powerful to impose a tax on emissions... on nuclear power production? That, in fact, it is in the hands of three or four very powerful companies? Never had a tax been imposed on this; now, yes, and our government has. Is it to give power to the powerful, Mr. Bathrooms, to impose, for example, on the large, large multinational companies that are dedicated, therefore, to the whole telecommunications issue and to the transmission of data in order to be able to put resources to the Catalan audiovisual and cultural industry, which is often formed by autonomous or very small enterprises or by medium-sized enterprises and by creators and all this? I put it down. Just 'if there are, for example, decisions that we have to make, that do not go in the line that you were thinking. As a minimum counterweight, as a minimum balance. I ask them for a little bit of... a little bit, let's say, of... go, I get to say it, almost, of fair play in this sense, because... because there is, therefore, as a minimum, a knowledge of reality. Now you will tell me later: "But we don't like this and we don't like it. Okay. Okay. I can't argue with that, but what I can say is that many decisions have been taken. And many of them, precisely, did not go to help the most powerful, which you say, did they not? We've done other things. For example, we repealed a 1999 decree giving tickets to a motorway concessionary company, the C-16, on the margin of what was the volume of traffic. Do you know what this company is? It's called Railroad. You must be one of the powerful, according to you, right? So, this is what we've been dealing with... Go, "We've been dealing with it, we've changed a decree from year 99, which means a pile of years have passed, and we've changed it now. Not to help her. No, on the other hand: to adjust – to adjust – the entries to the real traffic, and not to any type of traffic. Okay. I put all these examples to you because it gives us the impression that it's worth it, so... that it's worth taking into account. Do you know why we needed tickets, Mr. Baths, for example? To subsidize public transport headlines metropolity to a lot of people in this country who cost them a lot to pay the headlines to the price they are. Do you know how many of these people? One person out of four users have subsidies in the headlines of public transport metropolità– one_of_each_four. And that's why we needed some tickets. I'll give you examples that justify things we've done, that we don't have girls because we do, we have girls for all this, and not for other things. And only for that – only for that. I simply ask you to take this into account, and that in your assessments, therefore, this, as a minimum, is an object of knowledge. Maybe these things, so they don't know so much, because they don't come out in the big headlines, but these things are and they're governments; and they're governments that have sensitivities, and they know the country, and they know the patience of many people, or the lacks of many people, or the weakened of many people. You also told me to vote that not for yesterday's speech. Okay. So, I'm sorry, but this is already done, now I can't change it, and neither can I change it in many things. You said: "He spoke a lot of transparency but little corruption. Maybe so. Now, I may have done this because of corruption in this Parliament I am constantly talking about, and irregular, all supposed, etc. I do it all the time, no one can say that I do not win it all the time, and you are there, in these commissions. Go, they're not just there, they've been presided over. Talk to David Fernández, who presided over it, this committee, and see if you can tell him if at any time I've put some kind of a stop, to give as many explanations as I can. I've done it, almost to exhaustion. Now, let's do something. I will discuss it – I will discuss it, because, more than that, I am convinced – that, beyond individual pipelines that in some cases may be, there is no generalised structural system of corruption in Catalonia. It's not there – it's not there. That you can say that as many cases as there are irregularities that are linked to personal activities, it is obvious. That's obvious. But a generalised system of corruption of abaster general is not there. And, therefore, I also have an obligation to defend how things work at the moment. I gave many days ago, in this Parliament, an exhaustive explanation of how the public works contract works and what are the criteria and how it all works. And what I explained to him is objective, it can prove. And I explained to him how far our government has been absolutely demanding to toughen up the procurement standards. And he's doing it all the time. He never got to the point of demand that we have at this time, never. And now I'm there. Now, you can always say: "Look, here is a concrete case, which is part of an individual conduct, therefore, not correct. I'm sure. Go on, that's not for sure, sure. I also ask you – and I think you have done this, and I value it – that... – and other spokespersons have done it too – that you say that, well, if we are in a system where there must be some cases to end up proving whether there is guilt or not, therefore, that this case is concluded, because it is up to a time that, many times, therefore, the case ends differently from what was originally predicted, and we do not decide it, the courts decide it. And here we can bring some surprises. I've seen people of this same room accused for years who, in the end, have dealt with the causes. And on the contrary: I have seen imputed persons, who have gone through trials and who have been, therefore, guilty in the first instance, and who, in the second instance, have sometimes gone out absolved. Okay. I think this trial, so we have to do it, don't we? And, finally, I was told that neither did they vote for me, nor did they vote for this investiture, because we must transcend – his words – "personalism". Okay. I don't know how far they want to go at this point. But, of course, if there is a president or president of the Generality, there will be some kind of institutional personality, unless you do not want this presidency to be empty. And then, obviously, if you don't take care of the person there's no risk of personalism; but, if there is someone, that someone will mark an accent, mark a way to act, and little or a lot of it will always qualify as a personalist. Now, they recognize things like the following, like the following – I think so, don't they? –: does it mean that I put so much emphasis on personalism when, for example, against what the color dictated me, I did not go to a single demonstration of the 11th of September? Look how easy I was, huh? , to be able to go there, and to be able to shine in person. Because I've been playing it in a lot of ways, too. I didn't go to the head. A person who accentuates his personalism does exactly the opposite, goes there and tries to be at the front line or at the front row. When Juntes was nominated for the Yes – and I have many witnesses in this very Parliament – I myself heard, from the very first moment, that I was to be a part of this candidacy, if that were to be agreed, but that it was not necessary to be in the first line. And proof of that is that he kept me: during today he kept me on different occasions. This doesn't have to be a great sign of personalism. Another might have said... – and above all a politician, or a politician beyond..., a total skirt politician, right? "In no way – in no way – at the front, I would have said. That's personalism. Now, not the other one; the other one, precisely, is not personalism. It is personalism, Mr. Bathos, to say: "We will have a legislature, probably short, that ideally should not pass from divorce, I said yesterday, in which Junts per el Si presents me as candidate for the presidency of the Generality, but I understand that this is my last period, if'mvota, to be president of the Generality, and after leaving? Is that personalism? Personalism would be to say: "Look, if I can pull this out now, then you see how many years I can stay to be on the front line. That would be personalism, looking for one; it would be even selfish, according to how. But you know I didn't put it that way. I put it exactly with a bad feeling. I know perfectly well that the president of a country, also of Catalonia, is one more piece – I know perfectly well. See if I know how long it was possible to do it on November 9th of last year, 2014, thanks to the fact that forty-thousand people mobilized to help put the ballot boxes. Look if I'm aware of it! Because one of the main challenges we had ahead of us, if I hadn't gone like this, it couldn't have worked out how it worked. On November 9th of last year he was completely absent from personalism, Mr. Baños. Now, of course, how there is a president, or president – now the president of Parliament, for example, as before too – so, when an appreciation is to be made of how that day went, not me, but that the journalistic world, for example, starting here, is going to ask the person who holds the presidency. And this one can't remain silent, this one has to explain things, because it doesn't stop being a referent, not the referent: a referent. A referent that's taken into account all the time. And this at our house also works this way. Okay. I don't give a shit about this point anymore because, as you invite me to make sayings, I hope you say, so, I can also extend some idea until I supplement or supplement everything I say. Because, Mr. Baños, there's room to hear us – there's room to hear us. I believe, I think there's room for us to hear. You said to us... – and with this I finish – you said, before: « We are seventy-two. Okay. I have to recognize that we are seventy-two to pull forward the project of creating a state in Catalonia and to pull forward a constitution, so we are seventy-two. Probably for other things not to be seventy-two, because you won't give support to this government at all, I suppose? I'm so sorry. I'm so wrong. But I guess they won't. So, we're not two-seven for everything. But if we're seventy-two to pull the sovereignist project forward, then I'm going to say one thing – maybe it's too bold, isn't it? – Why don't we meet one day at the seventy-two, vote there and decide? (Laughter.) Because if we're seventy-two, then we act like seventy-two. (Whispering) Now, how do I suppose that you, then, how do I suppose that you didn't see it the same way, I imagine, right? I mean, we have to negotiate sixty-two more gods. Hey, what's up? (Founding voice) They don't know. Okay. So, with what we don't know, Mr. Baths, I stay here, I don't go any further, you know what can happen. We've done things, I think, important until today. This Parliament approved yesterday a declaration, a resolution, which brought a lot of sound, is true, but which derives from the elections of September 27th – which comes from there – which is the fruit of a pact – I said yesterday. I'm sure you'd have preferred a different essay to the one you did, in a few things. Probably us, too, in a few others. But all the pacts are the products of a synthesis. And that's all ahead of the side. If we have shown that we are able to do this, then I hope that, from here that this investiture session is over, that we are able, too, to find it intertwined with the inevitable issue,,,, – beyond personalism and anything else –, the inevitable issue that there is a defined government in this country, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that there is a good part of this Catalan society that went quickly, in parallel with the Parliament of Catalonia, and, as important as that, to walk at the same time and at the same speed as a good part of this Catalan society that lasted until the 27th of September, that it gave us a very clear mandate, and for which – to return to the terms of the sea and to the same speed, that a good part of this Catalan society, that you did not use it, but that you did not use it, but that you did not use it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.56.0	The word "Mr. Antonio Baños".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.57.0	Thank you, President. Well, he used to wear it all the time, now they're handwritten notes, or maybe he'll be all the more chaotic. Yes, there is one thing inevitable at this time, that we will go out here with a republic and that we will not move out of this room even if we disable it. And that's absolutely inevitable. And I think we're seventy-two in agreement, don't we, with that? [[Greetings.]] I have to say, President, that I almost got a cover of color, you gave me a good squid, when you said: "We gather the seventy-two. [[Rialles.]] I thought it was to do, say, what we like so much, that it is an assembly and to find a president of consensus, or president, that it is what we are asking, exceeding the electoral lists, exceeding the ideologies, or not exceeding them, but confronting them and reaching agreements. Now, you told me that after you vote. I accept her meeting whenever the vote is secret, because we'll still entertain ourselves, maybe, you know. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Well, another one... tomorrow, they say?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.58.0	Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.59.0	He was going to say something else – he was going to say something else. You said the statement we signed on the 9th... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're still gonna make me feel better, President. He used to say the statement... if I may, I'll correct it. The statement on the 9th didn't blow, it did history; it's another thing. The statement we signed here, and the annex, you said, made a lot of noise. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's been a pass... – I know – it's been a blowout, but this blowout doesn't have to interest us, what we have to value is that this is a pass that doesn't have a lot of time and that's why it's made history. About some of the considerations you've made... first, yes, private and public. We are not in this debate either, we have public things that are managed in an absolute way..., public enterprises that are managed in a private way in the search for benefits and we are not interested in them. We always – and I think it has been commented on in this session – are we in common, we believe that there are resources that are common, that have nothing to do with privacy or the advertising of property, but that it should be out of the markets and out of a job-based management. And we are also in favour of the old traditions of entrepreneurship, if it is said now, but that they are in the form of co-operativeism, mutualism, and that we have defended in this chamber enough. I mean, it's not about an old confrontation with dangerous airs between the public and the private, it's just between the common, the popular, the cooperative, and what's strictly capitalist or lucre-based. Afterward, he asked me a lot of attention, much like you said, "Well, the country has done this, "Well, we had a government that listens to interests, "we don't handle our resources, "they haven't given us..., when they were ours, haven't we? – I suppose it should be money or resources. If they were ours, why didn't they give them to us? If we had sovereignty or power, why didn't they leave us? I believe that you have come to independence – I hope that you have followed a firm independence – by pointing out that a government, if it is not superior, if it cannot manage its people's resources, does not only do the people a weak favor, but in a way – and does not take it personally – is carrying a mandate, because we are here, and the governments are here, to defend the people's interests, and it is not worth it when they haven't left us, "we haven't been able. We need power and we need to know how to use all our resources. It is obvious that autonomy..., and to this autonomy we suppose that we give it Parliament, but if we can't do laws because they suspend us, then we're not exactly a parliament. And the government, if it doesn't have the means that the political economy gives to the administrations, if we can't issue or coin, if we don't have the ability to develop a full taxation, if we can't even make legislation that affects the economy or social or labour relations, and if we can't issue debt or stimulate the economy, if we have zero of the four basic elements of the political economy, so what we have is one, say, administration – and it will allow us, with all respect – from nowhere, and so I believe that all of us are conjured that there is a genuine sovereignty and authority for the triad forces for the people that is Catalan. This is the reflection that has asked me the most attention, and that I think you must have come to the conclusion that you can't go back to a president of Catalonia, especially if he's a president of the republic, say that they haven't left him or that he hasn't been able to. We have power and must leave us. Other things. The country has also done – when it said that the country has done so – the opposite of what you say. We have the experience of private cooperative schools, Cepepc, which wanted to become public, that is to say, there is also a movement towards the other band. And, finally, and not to expand, something about the empty presidency that you said. We do not want it empty, we want it full, but full of opinions and full of consensus. It's what we've been saying all these days. It's like, after all, back in the choir presidency – remember? –, that Swiss model we also set up. Perhaps it was not taken seriously, but what we want, precisely, is the opposite: it is a strong government, but not with a single strong person in the front; yes, let the government remain strong, let the Parliament remain strong and that the measures taken are, above all, reinforced by popular mobilization and the defense of the sovereignty of the country. That is to say, it is not that we want to drain them of competitions, the government and the parliament; on the contrary, we want to strengthen them. On personalism, it is true, you are planning or justifying that you did not exercise this personalism, and it is true: many of the most important manifestations of this movement, of this process, of this movement towards independence, so they did not count on you as center, did they? To the Meridiana no one cried: "But, president! We cried out: "Independence! And all the demonstrations, and 9-N, they didn't cry, "But, President! , but we'll vote 'yes-yes. That's why I tell him that his personalism or, I hope, that his enrocement in positions – I hope it's not so – about who should be the president of this government..., yes, I know, it's not you, it's the joint, Juntes' agreement for the Yes. For this reason, we did not propose them to dissolve together for the Yes, in absolute terms, but to conjure up the seventy-two deputies to shield and transcend this atzucac from the presidencies of consensus, full presidencies, full of contents and resources. Finally, one thing. You complained you couldn't, they wouldn't let us, but they also exercised certain powers. Here I am reminded of the companies that were abstaining in the reform of 135, which directly affected the lives of Catalans; they voted in favour of the Llei d'Estabilitat Presuppositionaria de l'Any 12 which also affected... [[Funnel veils]] Yes, I know that after... no, they say they can't keep this deficit, but you voted in favour of it, and you have always given recollection to tax reforms that we clearly consider to be regressive and labor reforms that, obviously, could qualify them as much more than regressive, practically Dickensian. In any case, if you..., all this past that we have retained and that you did not like to be handed over..., well, it's a past that is exactly like that, and we can tie it..., and we don't want to tie it exactly to your person, but maybe we can tie it to the limitations of the Generality, if you want, but you capped this government and participated in the decisions of the Madrid government, you and your party. In any case, if what you have told me is seeking balance and compensation for previous policies, that means that we will not make any law of oblivion and amnesty, nor persecution; we do not forget what has been done in this country in these years..., it is not that we do not forget it, it is that we suffer the laws that have been done, we lose the laws that have been done in this country and in Spain these years, with the support of Convergence, but, well, what it is all about is to pull forward, we do not forget it, but we give the opportunity that, in fact, we cannot complain about the lack of resources or authorities superior to the Catalan authority, and that, from this day on, we can all say that we have real power in the past. That's it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.60.0	Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Turull, President of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.61.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Lords and Members of Parliament, I appear in this debate on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes to explain and explain our support to the candidate for President of the Generality, the current President, the very honorable Lord Arthur Mas and Gavarró. This was our compromise before the citizens of Catalonia, and this is what we have transferred to the President of the Parliament, and this is what we will defend with all our conviction and without matter. On the whole day, in the speeches of the different parliamentary groups, many things have been said about both the candidate for president, as well as about what we intend to do during this brief but intense and far-reaching parliamentary term. And, obviously, we'll have to talk about it. And we will have to mention why the president is our candidate but with him we share the commitments of the future expressed yesterday in his intervention in this chamber, and, through this chamber, expressed and compromised with all the citizens of Catalonia. However, I have allowed you to make a statement about what is Juntes per el Si, a statement which I believe is no less, above all to avoid the debate, so as not to allow us to pour ourselves into an ordinary debate of an ordinary autonomous legislature of an ordinary autonomous parliament. And yesterday morning, by the way of the events, we had the first witness, with the declaration of the iniciators of the process to independence, that this is no longer so nor do we have the vocation that is so. And I want to do this before our parliamentary group because, together for the Yes, for its own sake, for its natural nature, it was not an ordinary candidacy for some ordinary autonomous elections; it was an exceptional candidacy for an exceptional legislature, a transcendent, historic and unrepeatable legislature; an exceptional candidacy for an exceptional moment and that was possible thanks to many people, but – I also want to say here, before the president referred to it – thanks, first of all, to the generosity of leaders who, legitimately, could have wanted or preferred to captivate ordinary formulas, with party logic, and they did not do so. And I'm referring to Mr Oriol Junqueras and the same President Mas, for example. And thanks also to the compromise of many people outside the parties who did not intend to actively stand in the front line of politics, but that the transcendence of the moment and the repte as positive as giant moved them to take the step. A candidacy that, if they want it in colloquial terms, was the translation into an electoral proposal of so many people, of the "do not flow, do well and do so together. The parliamentary group is the Parliamentary Group of Juntes per el Yes, not the group of « together so that yes; together for the clear and clear self to the independence of Catalonia, in exceptional elections that at the end everyone gave to it plebiscitari character, and, if not, can only see the readings that have taken place today of the different electoral figures and the electoral results. In view of the state blockade, before the impossibility, after having tried everything, to make a reference on this question, we were going to bring a solution to the citizen: people and parties of different sensitivities, of very different paths, more than 116,000 candidates and candidates actively compromised, which today we also represent, remember and represent, we are going to unite in an exceptional way in order to facilitate the paper of the self to start and to culminate independence through a plebiscite elections; a desire which we had mobilized with more citizens and entities in an exemplary way in the forms and without preceding Europe in quantity, mobilized to find in the ballots a democratic mandate that impelled irreversibly the process towards independence. Together for the Yes join us in defending the noblest cause of all the nation so that we can make the most just causes effective within the nation. Independence as an instrument to make a country better, fairer, fairer, fairer, more democratic, cleaner, a country better for everyone, for the 7_million_i_mig of citizens. To achieve independence in order to make Catalonia the most just causes. Without independence they can defend them, but not apply them as required. Yesterday the president made a good list – and today too – of how many things we want to do for people, we want to solve people, we want to act to face the ambitions, the illusions and the sufferings of many people, in many areas and situations, and that we cannot, not because we do not want to. And we can't blame it – and we have said it and repeated it many times, and the facts prove it – of a Spanish state that treats us as subjects and not as citizens. A Spanish state that wants to waste us, that economically offends us and that has threatened us and attacks us institutionally. A Spanish state that only wants us and tells us that it values us when we work, we pay and we call out, but when we legitimately raise the word, it insults us and threatens us. And that's why this situation is so unsustainable and it affects a lot, and every day and every day and in people's expectations and patience, so that before this evidence we decided to stop squatting often between us, with the wreaths, and we decided to gather together to get the father. We decided to gather together so we could be, with the objective of being able to do it. To be like the country, so that we can serve our citizens much better. And here we are, together for the Yes, with sixty-two deputies and more than 1,600,000 votes. And that is precisely why, because of the exceptional nature of our candidacy, of our parliamentary group, we are completely loyal to our objectives and our commitments; commitments made before the elections with the citizens, with all of them and in all areas, well explained in our 121-page electoral programme; electoral programme, 121-page electoral programme, for those that they also created – and today have repeated – that mantra that we only talked about on a subject and that we had no proposals that concern people in the different sectors. All of you have at your disposal the 121 pages of concrete proposals, both in scope. Commitments in the field of social justice, and there are many. Commitments in the camp to raise the country economically, and there are many. Commitment to how to reverse the benefits of a strong and sustainable economy in the strength of our welfare state, and there are many. As there are in the field of culture, in the field of democratic regeneration, in the field of transparency and in the demand for honesty in the field of political and public service exercise. Of all this, almost at once, the President spoke of it yesterday, and he committed himself to it, and I would not now want to be repeated and to have them say one more at a time. But sometimes it has been said that if the speech of President Mas yesterday pleased him more, he liked less... The speech of President Mas yesterday does not come out of chance: it comes out of the commitments he made with the citizens of Catalonia. And they are also loyal to the programme, but they are also loyal to the mandates approved in this Parliament, starting with a major mandate: the declaration approved yesterday; a mandate born of a compromise with the citizens, and the consequence of a democratic result of the "yes to plebiscite elections". Of the seventy-two elected deputies who defend independence, and among them, also the President of the Generality and today's candidate. And I say this in order to reiterate the absolute compromise to give effect to the resolution adopted yesterday by the Parliament of Catalonia in all its terms and annexes: that of the independence process in Catalonia and that of a follow-up of measures that can be implemented to guarantee the rights of the people. We commit ourselves to it, as did the President But, voting and assuming the derivatives that this must have for the future government that we want him to preside over. We will be loyal to this mandate and commitments with all the consequences; I repeat, with all the consequences. We don't have to. We have illusion and conviction to go forward. We have an exceptional and extraordinary democratic mandate, and are consequently. It is the people, but the generations of people in our country, who today, discordantly, are not among us, people who would have paid to live at this time; people who from more absolute anonymity served and sacrificed for this country, for their freedom, for their institutions, for their language, for their culture, for their social gains; people who thanks to their compromise and sacrifices, often in circumstances much more adverse than the current ones, are from a cultural or social entity, from a faculty, from an excursionist centre, from a union, from an association of visitors or from a parish, or from any other manifestation of personal activity, who have left us a little something that has left behind this plant. We will not fail those people who in the most difficult and darkest times saved us much more than the words; their example, their mastery in action, is that which employs us and gives us courage. Nor will we fail future generations, who will never forgive us that, they can leave a better, much better country, that they have now so much to play, we do not do it well and we do not do it possible. History has summoned us and history will judge us all. And we invite everyone to feel 'protagonist, to be an actor, not a spectator, of what can be one of the most relevant episodes of our history. Despite the threats every time more loud, we said it loud and strong: we will push forward the democratic mandate of the people of Catalonia. Although, as always, we see the Spanish State giving judicial responses to which it is a political and democratic cry, in case someone does not have it clear – and we have said it many times – we repeat: the future political of Catalonia does not decide it or will decide it in court; the future political of Catalonia decides it and the citizens of Catalonia will decide it. And we'll push this process forward, which has been, is and will be democratic, civil and peaceful. Where there are threats, quarrels, prosecutors and courts, we will always pose democracy, ballot boxes and papers. And that makes us more solid on one side and, on the other side, much weaker on the other. We have no reason to, but we do see with perplexity how the State's response, for example, is the threat of incapacitation to elected Members to complete their commitments to the citizens, when the debate should be more likely to disable those policies that do not meet their commitments to the citizens. The threat, the danger, they won't put up with us. Today's the same. [[the orator shows a full of diaries]] : « The prosecution orders the Mossos to act against anyone who ignores the Constitutional Court. I read, more than a king, to warn the People's Party that now it sees an electoral campaign and that the ministers will be coming, like those who have acted against the Constitutional Court and ignored it in many ways is the Government of the State, that the ministers and the Squadron Mosses have no problems with them. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Why, for now, if someone [[applause]] .... if someone has incomplete Constitutional Court rulings – and, if not, they talk to social entities about the 0.7 percent issue – then they are, aren't they? We see with perplexity, but we do not see with perplexity how there are political elements, presidents of the government who stand as magistrates, and elements of the judiciary that the only one they make is to legally decorate political decisions. They say, and they anticipate, that they suspend what we approved yesterday. Yes, they also suspended the Declaration of Sovereignty, and said: "Quiet, this will have no effect. Lucky he didn't have any effects. It is good that the Spanish State, in this game, is not that it does not see the pilot, but that you do not see the stadium: the effect of suspending the Declaration of Sovereignty has been seventy-two independent MPs and a declaration of initiators of the process towards independence. If the opponent is wrong, don't distract him. As President Mas said yesterday, this process – and we repeat it – we started it democratically, at the polls; the democratic development with a process is, in turn, at the height of the best experiences and opportunities of the 21st century, and the democratic culmination with the approval of the constitution of the new independent state. Who's up to democracy? Some, for whom they have said today, clearly hold for democracy; others– I do not see that Mr. Iceta is here, for whom he has said [[Funnel veils]] ...He's here now. It's that I don't see it – I forgive it. [[Rialles.]] I'm sorry, it's the cover. [[Rialles.]] I, Mr. Iceta, would never make him the claim he has to democracy, but today he came to tell us that he does it as a mandra, democracy. [[Widow's remorse.]] You don't have to be proud to vote so many times for issues... Mr. Iceta, you don't have to be proud to vote as many times as you need, when things are absolutely transcendent for a society and for a country. The Spanish State and some of you would have to get inside that many Western countries have inside, that great democracies or progress, or stop being great, or stop being democracies. This process we want to do and do thinking about everyone, everyone, taking into account absolutely everyone, those who voted "yes to independence and those who voted "no to independence. Independence has to live better, to live better everyone. This doesn't go with flags, this doesn't go with identities, it doesn't go with very little origins, it doesn't go with languages. This has to make a better country for everyone. And that goes from Catalonia, a people's sun. While the Spanish State treats Catalans as subjects to fear, we treat them all as responsible citizens, as the President said yesterday. We are in the hands of the citizens of Catalonia, they owe us and they serve us. And the message of the people of Catalonia was very clear and very explicit, expect it as usual. Because, Mr. Albiol, if we only have a 36_percent of the total, you only have a 6_percent of the total – I'm telling you for the second five ways of doing the planting. The result was very clear and very explicit: the clearness of Catalonia's independence was, broadly speaking, much more voted than the clearness of Catalonia's independence. What we are going to do is, for us, an authentic honor, but also, at the same time, an enormous responsibility. An honor because, as I said before, there are many and many generations of Catalans who would have wanted to live a moment and a step like what we did yesterday, which thanks to them we could do. But now it's a huge responsibility, because it's not about doing the process to do it, it's not about doing it to do it and to see what happens, but it's about doing it right, all right, to do it possible. And I have to add the best acts, which are many in the country, and it's about summarizing, expanding, and not escaping. The repte is so ingenious that we need good and better for everyone. We'll need it as well, and it's true, to do it quickly, it's true. We are in a hurry, because, as I said before, to make the just causes effective in Catalonia, if we do not do so quickly, if we let ourselves be watered down for this offence, for the resignation, for the residuality offered to us by the State, this country can go to the hands. How much longer do we have to be in a state that doesn't let us act out of that people who have to sort out whether to pass cold or win? They say we're disobedient. We will not be left with arms folded before the situation, every time more, of people who must sort between passing cold or winning and that there is a constitutional court that tells us that we can't do it again. I don't know what kind of revolt they propose to us, that they come and say that we can do it with permission from the relevant authority. We start to take off, and more so because this relevant authority every day is more impertinent and people can't wait. And you will say that we cannot disobey the Constitutional Court. We're doing acts of asserting sovereignty to serve people, because there's a horizon, but there's a while, and people can't wait any longer. To be in a hurry does not mean to rush; "in a hurry I mean not to lose a minute and to give up the process, that this is not people who refuse to do it well – and then I will refer to it again. We are also in a hurry because the expectations that come to us from the State are that the dynamic, far from understanding what we are going to do, will be most daring against what we want to do. And we're in a hurry because this legislature, as it stands – and it's our compromise and it's the president's compromise – must be as intense as it is short. And that's why we need to start as soon as possible. In this intervention I spoke of commitments, democratic quality, being loyal to the mandate of the people of Catalonia, of determination, of conviction, of not having to take and pull forward, and we spoke of the willingness to bring together the best actions, of doing well and of doing it quickly. Just the motivators, all of them, perfectly with the reason why we defend and defend the candidacy of President Mas to preside over the government in this exceptional legislature. Groups that do not want the process to go ahead will say what they want about the non-convenience of President Mas. But, in fact, I'm sure – I'm sure – that if you, who are against the process, think that the President But is more of a step than an act in the process, you still will be able to vote for it. You have shown, Lords of Ciutadans, Lords of the PP, Lords of the PSC, that you are able to do all the papers, like the other day before the Constitutional Court – certainly, with a rather painful result, even if you were playing at a suitable camp –, to do whatever you please, not only to prevent the process, but, what is worse, to shut down the will of the people of Catalonia. And it's logical for you, and you don't want the president, but because you know that he, because of threats, will be loyal to his commitments to this chamber and, with it, to the people of Catalonia and, therefore, to the process. I will not try, therefore, to devote minutes to convincing those who do not want to be tried, because if they do not want to be tried, it is logical that they do not want the President to be tried. Yes, on the other hand, on the basis of explaining more why Juntes for the Defense and will defend the candidacy of President Mas, I would like to invite reflection to those who also share the objective of associating Catalonia's independence to our country. With all the modesty, and with the same will and predisposition that we have had folded these days and that has allowed us to come to good agreement, as the resolution adopted yesterday, indeed, that it has been as historic as the sound that has provoked, and also, and not less, the annex that we have been able to approve, to act in this while there are many people that cannot be expected and many rights that cannot be raised. The process has always drawn forward on the basis of summarizing, never on the basis of taking action, looking back, of toilets. I'm sure no one would go through the head to say if we're supposed to get together, so start vetoing over here or start vetoing over there. That's why I'm sure... – as I said before the invitation made by Mr. Baths – I'm sure we have to agree, because this way I wouldn't forgive us. If you have installed yourself according to what dynamic in the process, for whom it was, surely now we will not be seventy-two Members. We now represent many people, who have done so very well in the street; we have to do so as well as they here, therefore, in the Chamber, because we are their representation, which means that we are just their hope. I have spoken, as I said, of many motuses that make us defend, with all conviction and without any nuance, that the President But be the president of this Parliament so exceptional, short and intense. In the first place, for a question of compromise and democratic quality. All that voted Junts for the Yes knew perfectly well that, if we got the responsibility to govern, the candidate to be president, the one who would preside over this government would be President Mas. In the same way that everyone knew, and knows, that if we were close to ruling, the Republican Left of Catalonia, in this government there would be a very moving paper. Therefore, we have more than 1,600,000 motius to defend this proposal. A very basic element and smaller people; smaller people because, if more is said, as it is said publicly, it is Juntos for the Yes to whom they correspond to govern – and this is a challenge and a responsibility that we assume of everything and with much illusion – which we are asking is that much legitimately disrespect... – because it will be us, Juntos for the Yes, that we will ask ourselves to respect – that we respect the way and with the person that we are going to compromise ourselves in front of the citizens of Catalonia. If we start... – and I don't make an accusation, I just make a reflection, but I also think it's important to take it into account –, if we start with something that someone can interpret as a game of falling or going below, that governments that force that has gotten longer, but not presided over by the person with whom they have compromised with citizenship, could be interpreted as someone accessing the presidency of the Generality for the back door, and I think that this would start badly, or it could affect the democratic quality that in the new country we want to build all the folds, so we want to deepen it. That's why we defend – although we don't have the absolute majority, but we defend it, with all legitimacy – that if we have the responsibility to govern, which we can do – because we will have to pass accounts, in the chamber, but also in the citizenry – with that person and with the conditions that that person is accessing, with which we will compromise with the citizens. Secondly, if we talk about what we call being loyal to the mandate of the people of Catalonia of determination, of conviction, of not having to and to pull forward, also in this march, we defend that it is the president of Mas. He has shown it and you know it: credibility, like many others, but he also accompanies it. We have the only president in Europe who wants to put the ballot boxes, to complete his commitments to this chamber and to complete his commitments to the citizens. We have a whole state, with their keyboards included activated, which have done what it takes to try to discredit it, to try to fold veils. And in God's faith, how many, whom he did what he did, would not have done, and he didn't. Are we going to do from here to here that they've been trying from the state with conventional and non-conventional political weapons, which is to offer the political head of President Mas? For our part, I assure you, it's not going to happen to us at all. And do you know why? Not just for a personal theme and a lot of reasons that I could pose, it's that then the State would definitely have taken our measure, and then one did it to the other, and then the other – and then the other. If anyone ever had a shadow of a doubt, or someone wanted to sow and feed more shadows of a doubt – that, therefore, there is not much – the president always immediately went face to face and gave his face. And he proved not to have to take responsibility and make decisions, no matter how complex they were. And, yesterday in his investiture speech and today in the debate, he was and has been very explicit about his commitment to chair a government that pulls forward this process, which marks the resolution adopted yesterday, and a government plan that includes all these measures that we agreed to. And the credibility in all this process and in the compliment of his commitments fully support him so that he can be the president in this legislature, I insist, short and exceptional. And finally, and in the third place, we talked about the willingness to bring together the best acts, to do it well and to do it quickly. This, if they want, is a more pragmatic reason, but that the difference between President But or some other possibility would be the difference between starting the process from the zero minute or starting from the zero, which is very different, whenever we speak, as we are now, of a legislature, not of four years, but of a short legislature, especially in basic themes that have already advanced and that there is a lot of reference in the international camp, in the camp of the structures of the State, etcetera. If we are in a hurry, and many of you are witnesses and connoisseurs that in these past years, according to the government and the parliamentary agreements of Convergence and the Republican Left, there has been a lot of work done, of that which we could say of recasting, of that which is not seen, but which is absolutely necessary. The Presidency of the Government, which is very high to mark the pace of action, can give speed to create from the zero minute and we can, let's say it colloquially, avoid that in political terms in the hundreds of days of learning or thanks, because nobody, as they say in my people, "no one, no one, no one, no one. Let's start from the zero minute and don't start from the zero. And this, for us, is also a motive. President But five years ago he held the presidency, and no doubt about his commitment and determination in the process. And if you don't, you just need to see how they're spent in the state to give that rhythm in the process that's been going on so far. And he can secure this rhythm from the zero minute, to pull forward what we, solemnly, were to proclaim in this Parliament. It's about taking advantage of the bagatge and taking advantage of the best attitudes. It's saying that the process is over people. So much! But, oll! It's not a process-by-process. It's not about doing it to do it, it's about doing it right to do it possible. And, in this sense, that means we have to take advantage of the best actions for the government, for Parliament and for society. We've said it a lot, and we repeat it. I said it at the Congress of Deputies looking at Mr Rajoy's eyes: this process does not have a name and a surname, this process has hundreds of thousands of names and surnames, of all the people who have bought themselves, who have been very active, but who now ask us, demands us, with all the legitimacy that we do well and make it possible. And that we, the seventy-two, in our hope. And that's why I need to take advantage of the best actions. There's no one left, the whole opposite. It is for all these reasons that I have explained – for each of them, but also for all together and at the same time – that we understand that the President But meets the requirements and is the best person that the Generality can preside over this legislature, I insist, briefly, exceptional and historic. The legislature that yesterday, with seventy-two Members – is to say, with a majority more than absolute – we will solemnly start the process towards the independence of Catalonia. Let's start from today, or, if they want, from sayings, from the zero minute, to building folds, and for everyone, this future. A future that, as said these days before very many people, that fills places, illusioned people, Congressman Lluís Llach, used a few words from Miquel Martí and Pol: "Let's start from the minute zero and start a future that must be bright and possible. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.62.0	To answer, the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.63.0	Thank you, Madam President. As the chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Group tells me for the Yes that this will be the last intervention, and with the permission of the presidency of Parliament, to take advantage of this last return, on my part, to thank all the spokespersons who have spoken today for the debate that we may have had. I do not think that, without exception, we can say that there has been a debate of a whole..., I will not say 'kind', because these debates, of a kind, can never be at all, but rather of a sufficiently constructed one, let us say so, until there is an element that in this Parliament is not lost, nor in this legislature, and that, little or much, has presided, therefore, all the legislatures of the Parliament of Catalonia since the year 1980; that sets a counterpoint to the difficulties of dialogue, sometimes, of doors; but that, in change, in our Parliament, this capacity to speak, therefore, has always been there. In some moments, it has been more fluid; in others, a little less. But I want to offer, so, what I can go through – we'll see how this investment ends, but, in the case that it ends well, so – I would like to offer, in which I'm close to myself, the maximum amount of dialogue with everyone, because I understand that there will be really complicated things in these very difficult times – very complicated –, and that requires the ability to talk and reach agreements in many different subjects, which, as you have said during the day of today, so little or much, occupy the day-to-day of our citizenship. Without losing sight of these long-running projects, which are, that we are defending them, that I insist that we have democratic legitimacy to do so, in the conditions in which it was voted on 27 September, that we know that they are conditions that allow us, clearly, to start this process, clearly to take it forward, clearly to promote the future approval of a Catalan constitution and clearly to lay the foundations for there to be, at some point, a reference – that, this yes, must be a final reference – that brings us to high participation in Catalan citizenship and to its involvement, so that, through that final reference, we can, by adopting a Catalan constitution, all of us can say there, in our own country, and to pass that very democratic state – that we can define as a democratic state. We are here, I also thank the last contribution of the Junts spokesman for the Yes. It was said, on behalf of Mr Turull, something that I think is worth remembering: Together for the Yes it was done for an exceptional moment, for an exceptional moment that will hardly be repeated and, therefore, it has this exceptional value and it has this value of a powerful political instrument, as much as possible, to try to give response to the great reptes and the great stakes that a significant part of Catalan society makes. So, it's true, it's not together because yes, it's not for anything, it's for an object. And this goal, the big goal – I repeat – is not just a state; the big goal is that in this country everyone is better off, that's the goal – that's the goal. And this objective needs a whole series of instruments and capacity to decide and dispose of resources. And I want to point out one thing: that Catalonia, since many centuries ago, has not had the opportunity to prove itself if with the same instruments that the other states have, even of its size, it is able to do things clearly better and to offer a better life to its people than simply with the instruments of autonomy or administrative decentralisation. We haven't had this opportunity. After seconds – and I now appeal to those who are against it – isn't it worth it? Isn't it worth a try? Is it not worth being able to demonstrate to ourselves if we are clearly capable of making a better Catalonia which has gathered to the best standards of the best countries of the European Union? We haven't dyed it on this occasion. We have had in some short periods the possibility to manage an autonomy, very short periods, an autonomy that each time is more assembled to an administrative decentralisation, and not to a political profile. And in longer periods, not so much autonomy, and administrative decentralisation was purely in the hands of the Central State. These have been the long periods of our history, and now we have one where we have autonomy but every time we have less, every time it's more administrative autonomy and every time it's less political autonomy. And this Parliament has experienced this in these past months and these past years, when it has promoted a lot of initiatives because people in Catalonia are better and, above all, because there are people with more need and more vulnerability, and they cut their wings altogether. The appeals to the Constitutional Court have been constant; the suspensions, permanent; and the inability to resolve things, very great, as a consequence of this carving of wings, almost always permanent, the usual rule of the house, in this case of the performance of the Spanish State. We aspire to this, we aspire to stop simply managing an administrative autonomy so that we can get to what we have not been able to do for centuries, which is the very thing that nations like ours can do perfectly, because they have the instruments of a state, they have no total, absolute independence, in the sense that they have no sovereignty shared with anyone. It is true that the same European construction has led us to these interdependent or shared sovereignities, it is true; but in any case, the same instruments mean the same, which are many. Catalonia, I insist, from now on with at least three centuries has not been able to prove to itself that it was able to do without all these instruments that have any other country or any other normal birth in Europe. That is to say, with what we have had for a short time in our history, God does not give us the work we have done. Obviously, we didn't do it all right – obviously, we didn't do it all right – but God doesn't give us what we did! God does not have this country that has been able to move forward and resolve. But it's a country, Mr. Turull, that has ambitions beyond that, and that has plans beyond that, and that has challenges beyond that, and that wants to prove itself. There are a lot of people in this country who want to prove to themselves from the point of view that we would be able to do with the same instruments as the others. And I'm convinced that with the same instruments as the others we could be on top of everything, not in a competition, because it's not about competing with the others, but we could be on top of everything from the point of view of being a good referent in a lot of things. And more than that, very modestly, because we are a country of the demographic dimension that is, I think that beyond the individuality of certain people, which has historically brought much into the conjunct of humanity, Catalonia as a conjunct, as a collectivity, as a society, as a country, as a birth, can also leave its little one, even though it is modestly tarnished in the contribution of a better world. And that can be done as far as I can, too, to have the same instruments, I insist, that they have many others. I told Mr. Turull that, speaking of the government, and it's true, you have every reason in this sense, this will be, if we come out with this investiture, a government of Joints for the Yes. To do what we want to do, I don't seem to want to be anyone else in this government, and I'm talking about being among the government. Together for the Yes, this historic responsibility is willing to assume it, we are willing to assume it, and even though there is no more government responsibility, we will move forward. Then we hope, in very different subjects and in the central theme of becoming a state in Catalonia, to have the opportunity to reach agreements with different parliamentary formations. And someone said it this morning, I don't remember if Mr. Iceta was there: with sixty-two deputies and deputies, so, we can do a lot of work and we can pull a lot of things forward and, obviously, without forgetting people or even what is the central lane of this legislature and here, probably, we will have to do it, above all, between the Joints for the Yes and the CUP, without missing the contributions of other groups that we want to be, or that we want to be with dull, or that we want to be with counterpoints, but that makes it clear – as we have heard before – that we have the right to decide our future and that this future depends on us and on the ability we have to collect well and to shoot well. This allows us – it gives me the impression – therefore, dialog bridges and bridges of understanding that we do not have to neglect and in which we can affect, to Together for the Yes, I am convinced that this will be the tarann at all times. And finally, the last comment, you said, Mr. Turull: "Exercise from the minute zero, without waste of time. I think it's also a good concept, a good concept in the sense of saying: "We've prepared a lot, a lot of us have prepared a lot, we've done a lot of work. Some, during the election campaign when they came to say, I felt it – and it's true – some of them came to say: "There is not a single country of the world that has come to the door of being an independent country that is as prepared as we have prepared ourselves. It's exactly like that. So don't let it get away from you. All talents are needed, all those in favor of them. All actions are needed, all energies are needed, all people are needed. And with the maximum... go, with the minimum possible waste of time, which means that, ideally, we should be able to settle this investment this week. And I want to end up like this. I don't know if the proposal made by Mr. Baths here, as a result of my proposal, can be worth it or not, that is to say, since it is said that we are seventy-two, let us tank and, if necessary, vote secretly and solve it now. For what it affects me, I say yes. I don't know what Junts's opinion will be for the Yes, but if he was favorable, and had said what Mr. Baths said, it can be a quick exit that allows us to settle the investiture, not waste time, count with all the acts, put all the energies in it, pull forward and prove that we really believe in it and that we are willing to walk from the zero minute. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.64.0	The statements by the representatives of the parliamentary groups are finished, we call for a vote. According to Rule 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government and Rule 147.1 of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, because the candidate was invested he must obtain the votes of the absolute majority. This choice also includes approval of the government program. As announced this morning, the vote is public by cry; it is voted by alphabetical order starting for the deputy whose name you came out of by lot. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin.]] It's number 88, which corresponds to Deputy David Rodriguez. [[Pause.]] I pray to the secretary according to which he appoints the deputies and the deputies, and he will answer "yes agree with the investiture, "not against the abstention. The members of the Government who remain Members and the members of the Bureau will vote at the end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.65.0	Thank you, President. David Rodríguez: "Yes. Santi Rodríguez: "No. Meritxell Reigned: "Yes. Lorena Roldán: "No. Alice Romero : « No. Raül Romeva: "Yes. Marta Rovira: "Yes. Maria Dolors Rovirola: "Yes. Josep Rull: "Yes. Sergi Sabrià: "Yes. Sergi Saladié: "No. Benet Salellas: "No. Lluís Salvató: "Yes. Fernando Sánchez: "No. Alfonso Sánchez: "No. Carlos Sánchez: "No. Marc Sanglas: "Yes. Sergio Sanz: "No. Jordi-Miquel Sendra: "Yes. Maria Senserrich: "Yes. Gabriela Serra: "No. Sonia Sierra: "No. Bernat Sole: "Yes. Jorge Soler: "No. Marc Solsona: "Yes. Jordi Terrades: "No. Roger Torrent: "Yes. Jordi Turull: "Yes. Ramon Usall: "No. Elisabeth Valencia: "No. Teresa Vallverdú: "Yes. Alba Vergés: "Yes. Marc Vidal: "No. Laura Vílchez: "No. Montse Vilella : « Yes. Alberto Villagrasa: "No. Marisa Xandri: "No. Jessica Albiach: "No. Matías Alonso : « No. Oriol Amat: "Yes. Oriol Amorós: "Yes. Pere Aragonès: "Yes. Inés Arrimadas : « No. Antonio Balasch : « Yes. Antonio Baños : « No. Pain Bassa: "Yes. Albert Batalla: "Yes. Albert Batet: "Yes. Germà Bel: "Yes. Susana Beltrán : « No. David Bonvehí: "Yes. Albert Botran: "No. Marina Bravo: "No. Rafel Bruguera: "No. Josep Manel Busqueta: "No. Montserrat Candini: "Yes. Carlos Carrizosa: "No. Muriel Casals: "Yes. Joan Ramon Casals: "Yes. Magda Casamitjana: "Yes. Jean Castel Sucarrat: "No. Antoni Castellà : « Yes. Carmina Castellví : « Yes. Carles Castillo : « No. Anna Caula: "Yes. Violant Cervera: "Yes. Ferran Civit: "Yes. Antoni Comín : « Yes. Joan Coscubala: "No. Jordi Cuminal: "Yes. Julià de Jòdar: "No. Naomi de la Calle: "No. Fernando de Páramo : « No. Carme de Rivera: "No. Francisco Javier Domínguez: "No. Chakir El Homrani: "Yes. He assumes Escarp: "No. Antonio Espinosa: "No. Albano Dante : « No. Alejandro Fernández: "No. Anna Figueras: "Yes. Natalia Figueras: "Yes. Josep Maria Forné: "Yes. Josep Lluís Franco: "No. Montserrat Fornells: "Yes. Anna Gabriel: "No. Jesus Galiano : « No. Xavier García: "No. María José García: "No. Esperanza García : « No. Joan García: "No. Pol Gibert: "No. Joan Giner: "No. Gerard Gómez: "Yes. Eva Granados : « No. Hortênsia Grau: "No. Lluís Guinó: "Yes. Fran Hervías : « No. Rosa Maria Ibarra: "No. Miquel Iceta: "No. Oriol Junqueras: "Yes. Andrea Levy: "No. Gemma Lienas: "No. Lluís Llach: "Yes. Neus Lloveras : "Yes. Angels Martínez: "No. Eva Martínez: "No. David Mejía: "No. Juan Milián: "No. Josep Enric Millo: "No. Raül Moreno: "No. Marta Moreta: "No. Jordi Munell: "Yes. Esther Niubó : « No. Óscar Ordeig: "No. Jordi Orobig: "Yes. Montserrat Palau: "Yes. Marta Pascal: "Yes. Ferran Pedret: "No. Carles Puigdemont: "Yes. Eulàlia Reguant: "No. Eduardo Reyes: "Yes. Marta Ribas: "No. Javier Rivas: "No. Germà Gordó : « Yes. Irene Rigau: "Yes. Neus Munté: "Yes. Artur Mas : « Yes. Ramona Barrufet: "Yes. Joan Josep Nuet: "No. David Pérez: "No. Anna Simó : « Yes. José María Espejo-Saavedra: "No. Lluís Maria Corominas : « Yes. Carme Forcadell: "Yes. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-11-10-0302.66.0	The result was 62 in favour and 73 against. [[Pause.]] Since the very honorable Mr. Artur Mas and Gavarró in the vote did not obtain the absolute majority established by Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and according to Article 4.4 of the Law, the candidate has to submit his/her one-second debate and one-second vote, in which the simple majority will suffice. The session will be resumed on 12 November, to the gods of the morning, with the final debate. They suspect the session.
