ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.1.0	Authorities, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia at this constitutive session of the Eleventh Legislature. [[Constitution of the Plenary of the Parliament and election of the Bureau of the Parliament]] [[396-00001/11 and 398-00001/11]] As is the rule, according to Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, this session is to begin by reading the Decree of the Constitutive Session of the Parliament of Catalonia. This decree is number 229 of October 21, 2015, published in the Official Gazette of the Government of Catalonia of October 22. The decree thus says: "The elections to the Parliament of Catalonia were held on 27 September and since the provincial electoral assemblies have proclaimed the results of this electoral process, in conformity with what is laid down in Article 10, letter d, of Law 13/2008, of 5 November, of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, decree: Article 1. To convene for the Constitutive Session of the Parliament of Catalonia the deputies and elected deputies who have been proclaimed for the provincial elections of Barcelona, Girona, Lleida and Tarragona, according to the result of the elections held on 27 September 2015. Article 2. The Constitutive Session will take place on October 26, 2015, at 11 a.m., in the Palau del Parlament. Final disposition. This decree will enter into force on the same day as its publication in the Official Gazette of the Government of Catalonia. Barcelona, 21 October 2015. Signed, Artur Mas and Gavarró, president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2, provide that this constituent session shall be chaired initially by the Member or Member elected from among the present, assisted by the two youngest Members as Secretaries. According to the data released to the Parliament of Catalonia, it is known that the illustrious Mr Julià de Jòdar Muñoz, born on 28 December 1942, is the oldest member of the House of Representatives and is responsible for presiding over the session. It will count on the collaboration of the two youngest Members, Mr Joan Giner Miguélez, born 26 July 1989, and Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster, born 17 October 1989. If any of the elected proclamations consider you a better right, they will have to warn you now. Otherwise, the Parliament expects and the Rules of Procedure to form the Edat Bureau to open the constituent session of the Parliament in its eleventh legislature. [[Pause.]] I therefore call upon them to occupy their places in the presidency. Meanwhile, as the Major of the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to wish all and all the best certainty in the exercise of the representative function and of serving the people and the country that the people of Catalonia have entrusted to them. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.2.0	Once the Constitutive Session has begun with the reading of the summons decree by the Major Elector, as President of the Edat Bureau, and in accordance with Article 2 of the Rules, I declare this session to be open. [[Condol demonstration for the death of former MP Jordi Miralles and Count]] Before starting, if I may, I would like to propose to keep a minute of silence in memory of Mr Jordi Miralles and Conte, who was a mad deputy of the Parliament of Catalonia during the seven, eight and nine legislatures, and also a mad third secretary of the Bureau of Parliament in the eight legislature. It takes, therefore, a minute of silence in his memory. [[In the chamber, dempeus, serve a minute of silence. Greetings.]] [[Constitution of the Plenary of the Parliament and election of the Bureau of the Parliament (continuation)]] [[396-00001/11 and 398-00001/11]] President of the Generality, President Montilla, President Núria de Gispert, President Rigol, President Benach, Honourable Councillors and Councillors, illustrious Members and Deputies, Authorities accompanying us, Lords and Assistant Lords, Workers of the Parliament and of the communication media that cover this session and that will do their utmost to reach all citizens, I wish them very good day to all and to all. It is a paradox that chance has appointed me president of this chamber when our parliamentary group did not want to occupy any place. I don't care: chance is arbitrary, but not frivolous; I was born a morning of the Innocent Saints, and here I am. At this table we have Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster i Joan Giner i Miguélez, who came from families of the Aragó i Catalunya, Saldes, San Félix de la Vega i Lleó, Tavernes de la Valldigna ; I myself am the son of cartagenera and Velez-Rubio. And finding us here may also be a product of chance, but it is also a product of the will of belonging and of the country that has touched our lives, its culture, its history and its language, and that could certainly serve as an example to today's Europe, unable to deplete the earth's curses as they deserve. Even more paradoxical, and much less innocent, is that I am part of the independence generation that organized the Catalan Committee against the Spanish Constitution of 1978, because it did not mean a break with Francoism, but its impunity; because it did not come out of a popular process, but it was elaborated from the beginning; because it did not recognize Catalonia as it was born, and because it maintained economic and class privileges, the same public forces, the army and the judiciary of Francoism. And we opposed the Statute of Sau because it emanated from that Constitution and, consequently, we called for an active abstention in the autonomic elections of 1980. The independence radicality had a price; we paid it with persecution and loneliness. We resisted while the institutions looked at another band in 1981 and 1992. And we don't forget Guillem Aguló. We worked from the base, we were persistent and we were able to link up with the creation of a democratic, peaceful and sustained mass movement, which began with the Platform for the Right to Decide in 2006 and continued with the independence consultations between 2009 and 2011, with the demonstration against the Constitutional Court's judgment of 2010, with the founding of the National Assembly of Catalonia, with the days of the last years and with the consultation of November 9, 2014. A country of street, which has expressed itself with so many green seas, groans or whites, with so many general waves, with so many proposals and protests from the Catalan countries, a country that is already there. The composition of this chamber is the fruit by action, with an independent majority, and by reaction, with a new minority to the opposition. The last and most important of the paradoxes is that we have an independent majority, a legal-political order that denies it all the capacity to fulfil the democratic mandate of the citizenry that voted for it. The main task of this Parliament will be to resolve the conflict in the same democratic, peaceful and supported terms of the movement that has been given to it by the legal majority and moral legitimacy in order to found a new ethical, legal and political model, based on freedom, equality and social justice for our people, because it has been a long time since the movements for social, national and civil rights, the associated fabric, are a model for a new country, where a new and different relationship between continuity and ruptures, between the road and the institutions, between the social structures and the moral life, between the constitutional structure and its material bases will be established. This Parliament, which is contemplated by the world, will also be the scene of the battle between democracy and the rule before this world which contemplates us. It has been many years helping to make governments in Madrid, to build their power alternatives, but now we are not the alternative, but the alterity; an alterity that is not intended to be recognized, an alterity that is not restricted to utopia or the record, but is concrete and feasible, and necessary. We are no longer satisfied with the pinso, we want to get out of the gàbia; do not change it, but run away from it. We don't want the soft ones, Ovidi Montllor would say, it's pa sencer time. The independenceist majority of this chamber is the guarantee, and Parliament is one of the places where this alteration is to be built politically. But let us not forget that there is also an alteration affecting the majority and an alteration affecting minors. The problem of pa and labor affects the majority; the problem of retailing and growing inequalities affects the majority; the problem of patriarchy affects us all, even though it affects the women; the problem of health affects the majority; the problem of school affects the majority; the problem of culture affects the majority; the problem of economics affects everyone and everyone. But, in change, they affect the minority and their interests, privatizations, bank bailouts or corruption. We are a people's sun, certainly, but diverse and plural and complex, with inequalities and exclusions by reasons of class, origin, genera or creeds that are already intolerable, shameful. This winter, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, there will be thousands of families who will not be able to pay for their home, their food, their services; there will be children who are naked and very destitute. Any government that comes out of this Parliament will not gain legitimacy if it does not apply the necessary measures to deal with it. It cannot fail the political freedom of this people, because it cannot fail social justice for its people. But the poor don't have to experiment. If institutions are to implement social-emergency plans, they are the poor who are to participate in it and control it. What a needy mother of a family should not say, like the most famous porter of palau in Catalan literature, the immortal Secundina: "Talli qui carli el bacallà, una es sempre de portera. It's time for freedom and it's time for justice. Dirty the earth! Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] In accordance with Article 2.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the reading of the report of the elected Members. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau of Edat, Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster, to begin reading the relationship of elected members for the Barcelona constituency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.3.0	"The Provincial Electoral Board, in its session held on 9 October 2015, in agreement with the election results, has proclaimed elected deputies for the Barcelona constituency the following: Together for the Yes : Oriol Amato i Salas Oriol Amorós and March Pere Aragonès i Garcia David Bonvehi i Torras Montserrat Candini i Puig Muriel Casals and Couturier Joan Ramon Casals i Mata Magda Casamitjana and Aguilà Antoni Castellà i Clavé Antoni Comín and Oliveres Lluís Maria Corominas i Díaz Jordi Cuminal Roquet Chakir the Homrani Lesfar Anna Figueras and Ibàñez Carme Forcadell i Lluís Gerard Gómez del Moral i Fuster Germà Gordó and Aubarell Oriol Junqueras and Lives Neus Lloveras i Massana Artur Mas i Gavarró Neus Munte y Fernández Marta Pascal i Capdevila Eduardo Reyes Pino Irene Rigau and Oliver Raúl Romeva i Rueda Marta Rovira and Vergés Josep Rull and Andreu Marc Bloods and Sewers Maria Senserrich and Guitart Anna Simó i Castelló Jordi Tourull i Negre Alba Vergés i Bosch. Ciutadans- Citizenship Party : Inés Arrimadas García Susana Beltrán García Navy Bravo Sobrino Carlos Carrizosa Torres Naomi of Sifré Street Fernando de Páramo Gómez Carmen de Rivera i Pla José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa Antonio Espinosa Cerrato Jesús Galiano Gutierrez Joan García González Fran Hervías Chirosa David Mejía Ayra Sergio Sanz Jiménez Sonia Sierra Infante Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero Laura Vilchez Sánchez. Party of the Socialists of Catalonia : Take Escarp Gibert Pol Gilbert Horcas Eva Granados Galiano Miquel Iceta and Llorens Eva Martínez Morales Raúl Moreno Mountain Marta Moreta Rovira Esther Niubó Cidoncha Ferran Pedret and Santos David Pérez Ibáñez Alicia Romero Llano Jordi Terrades and Santacreu. Catalunya Yes That Is Pot : Jessica Albiach Satorres Joan Coscubila Conesa Albano Dante Fachin Pozzi Josep Lluís Franco Rabell Joan Giner Miguélez Gemma Lienas Massot Angels Martínez Castells Joan Josep Nuet and Pujals Marta Ribas Frías. Popular Party: Antonio Gallego Burgos Xavier García Albiol María José García Cuevas Esperanza García González Andrea Levy Soler Juan Milián Querol Santi Rodríguez i Serra Alberto Vilagrasa Gil. Candidacy for Popular Unity: Antonio Baños Boncompain Albert Botran i Pahissa Josep Manel Search for Franco Juliá de Jòdar Muñoz Anna Gabriel i Sabaté Eulàlia Reguant Cure Gabriela Serra Frediani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.4.0	I now pray to the Secretary of the Edat Bureau, Mr. Joan Giner Miguélez, that I continue to read the report of Members and Members Elected for the Circumscriptions of Girona, Lleida and Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.5.0	« The Provincial Electoral Board, in its session held on October 7, 2015, in agreement with the electoral results – voted for the Catalan people except for those young people who have had to be forcibly exiled for economic reasons and to whom their right to vote has not been facilitated – « has proclaimed elected deputies for the Circumscription of Girona the following lords and lords: Together for the Yes : Low Pain and Coll Anna Caula i Paretas Natalia Figueras i Pagès Lluís Guinó i Upirós Lluís Llach i Grande Jordi Munell and Garcia Jordi Orobig i Sole Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó Maria Dolors Rovirola and Coromi Sergi Sabria i Benito Roger Torrent Ramíó. Ciutadans- Citizenship Party : Jean Castel Sucarrat Alfons Sánchez Fisac. Socialist Party of Catalonia: Rafel Bruguera Battle. Catalunya Yes, it's Pot : Marc Vidal and Pou. Popular Party: Josep Enric Millo and Rocher. Candidacy for Popular Unity: Benet Salellas and Vilar. Circumscription of Lleida: Together for the Yes : Antoni Balasch i Parisi Ramona Barrufet and Santacana Albert Battle and Siscart Carmina Castellví and Vallverdú Violating Beer Gódia Josep Maria Forné i Febrer Montserrat Fornells i Sole David Rodríguez i González Bernat Sole i Barrel Marc Solsona and Aixalà. Ciutadans- Citizenship Party : Javier Rivas Escamilla Jorge Soler González. Socialist Party of Catalonia: Óscar Ordeig i Molist. Popular Party: Marisa Xandri Pujol. Candidacy for Popular Unity: Ramon Usall i Santa. Circumscription of Tarragona: Together for the Yes : Albert Batet i Canadell Germà Bel Queralt Ferran Civit and Marti Montserrat Palau Vergés Meritxell Reigned and Pedrola Lluís Saved and Tenesa Jordi-Miquel Sendra Velvè Teresa Vallverdú Albornà Montserrat Square Villa. Ciutadans- Citizenship Party : Matías Alonso Ruiz Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano Lorena Roldán Suárez Carlos Sánchez Martín. Party of the Socialists of Catalonia : Carles Castillo Rosique Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé. Catalunya Yes, it's Pot : Gerard Bargalló Boivin. Popular Party: Alejandro Fernández Álvarez. Candidacy for Popular Unity: Sergi Saladié Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.6.0	This Presidency states that all Members of Parliament have completed the requirements laid down in Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure for access to the full exercise of the status of Member. We shall then proceed to the election of the members of the Bureau of Parliament. In accordance with Rule 43.2 of the Rules of Procedure, voting for the election of these posts is a fan of half of the papers that will have to be delivered to the Editorial Board so that they are placed in the ballot box prepared for this purpose. The first election to be made is that of the President of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. To make this election every Member must write a name to the paper, and it is elected who gets the vote of the absolute majority. They shall consider null and void unreadable papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers without written indication will consider blank votes. I remind the House that the members of the Government who are parliamentarians and the Edat Bureau will vote at the end. I ask Secretary Gerard Gómez of Moral to initiate the cry of the deputies and deputies in alphabetical order. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. Members who are members of the Government in office and members of the Education Bureau are called at the end.]] Once the vote is over, we will proceed to the polls to find out who has been elected president or president of Parliament. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] We have therefore finished the count of votes, and you have been elected President of Parliament, by 77 votes in favour, 57 votes in favour and one vote in favour, the most honourable Mrs Carme Forcadell. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] We shall now proceed with the vote on the election of the two Vice-Presidents. In accordance with Rule 44.2 of the Rules of Procedure, each Member must write a name to the paper and the elected persons who, by order, obtain a majority of votes. I pray the secretary, Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, that I will start the call of the deputies again in alphabetical order. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. Members who are members of the Government in office and members of the Education Bureau are called at the end.]] We will proceed to the scrutiny to find out who have been elected vice-presidents of the Parliament. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] Mr Lluís Corominas and Mr Díaz was elected vice-president first, by 66 votes in favour. [[Perlongats applause.]] Vice-President José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa was elected second, by 56 votes in favour. [[Perlongats applause.]] There were 5 blank votes and 8 blank votes. We shall now vote for the election of the four secretaries. According to Article 44.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the election of secretaries requires the writing of a name to the paper, and the four are elected by order of votes that they obtain more. I pray to the secretary, Gerard Gómez del Moral, that I began the call of the deputies in alphabetical order. This is the last vote. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally criticized for being alphabetical because they vaginate at the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. Members who are members of the Government in office and members of the Education Bureau are called at the end.]] After this last vote for the secretaries, this presidency takes a little sugar to grab energy and finish with God's vote and scrutiny, and we quickly start reading the papers. Thank you. [[Pause.]] And let's start the polls. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] So, from the scrutiny to elect secretaries of the Bureau of Parliament, the result of the vote is the following: 37 votes for Anna Simó, 36 votes for Daniel Pérez, 25 votes for Joan Josep Nuet and 25 votes for Ramona Barrufet, which means that we have to break up between Joan Josep Nuet and Ramona Barrufet and proceed to a new vote. [[Widow's remorse. The president gives the word to Jordi Turull and Black.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.7.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. With a case like this we've never met before. If the Rules allow, here was an agreement between the parliamentary groups that Junts for the Yes had the fourth secretary and that the Yes Group that is Pot had the third. We keep this proposal even though we're tied, and so Mr. Nuet was the third secretary and Mrs. Barrufet was the fourth secretary is the agreement we had. We'd love to be able to complete it, and I don't know if the rest of the groups would agree. So I don't want to vote again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.8.0	The presidency, therefore, admits this suggestion, and therefore asks the chamber if it also agrees, and, if it agrees, there would be no vote and would therefore be organised in this way. That is to say, Mrs. Anna Simó, Mr. David Pérez, Mr. Nuet and Mrs. Barrufet. [[Perlongats applause.]] We have to invite the elected president, vice presidents and secretaries of the Bureau to take their seats, please. Mrs. Forcadell, Mr. Corominas, Mrs. Simó, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra, Mrs. Barrufet, Mr. Nuet, Mr. David Pérez and Mrs. Anna Simó. [[Members of Parliament's Bureau occupy other places.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2015-10-26-0101.9.0	Many honourable President of the Generality, honourable Councillors and Councillors, illustrious Members and Deputies, President Rigol, President Benach, President of Gispert, President Montilla, most worthy authorities, Lords and Lords, a greeting to the Members and Deputies, representatives of parties, entities and guests who for the sake of limited space are following the act of other rooms. My first words are of thanks: thank you very much for the honor you have given me in appointing me to preside over this Parliament, and I think I represent the feeling of the other members of the Bureau also thanking your name and the confidence you have given us with this election. I was born in Xerta, in the Lands of the Hebrews, and I am proud of his people and his speech, but I am also proud of my city, Sabadell, which has been with me for years, a city with people of arrest that represents the diversity and plurality of our country. I have never been a Member and I didn't think I was, like some other Members and Members of this Parliament, but we are here because the last elections were exceptional and because there has been a change in the way we hear and make politics. My predecessor, Núria de Gispert, when she was elected president of the ninth legislature, expressed her satisfaction and emotion for having been the first woman to preside over this Parliament. I shared it. And, from complicity, I hope that with two presidents following, we begin to change an abnormal situation for a long time, not only in the political sphere, but in all areas of everyday life. I will work because the vision and experiences of women are present in public spaces in the same proportion as men and because the presence of women in decision-making spaces is normal and not exceptional. I imagine the emotion and responsibility Enric Prat of the Riba had to feel when he created the Commonwealth, the first attempt of self-government since 1714. I imagine the emotion that Members must feel in setting up this Parliament in 1932, after you were the City from where Barcelona was bombarded, and I imagine the emotion that Heribert Barrera must have felt in reopening the first Parliament after the dictatorship. Now we are also living a transcendental moment in the history of Catalonia. The people spoke on 27 September with different views, and these views and views, this diversity and plurality of Catalonia, are represented in this chamber, and the obligation of this table is to make it easier for them to express themselves fairly and fairly. And this will be my compromise, and I am sure that also the compromise of those who form this table, because, as Abraham Lincoln said, the compromise is what turns a promise into reality. I'm committed to completing and making the Rules complete. I pledge to represent the institution with all the dignity it can and, in times of crisis and when our citizens suffer deprivation, we must be an example of austerity and transparency. This Parliament is and will be in the service of all the citizens, talking about what they talk about, coming from where they come, thinking what they think, voting what they vote for, because all the laws emanating from their pocket must be thought for everyone. That our action as Members and Members is profitable will depend on the service that we end up lending to citizens in general. We're still loyal to the citizenry and the common good, we're out of any other interest that this isn't. Give an example with the public service show. We want to be the Parliament of all, without exclusions, so I will propose that at Bureau meetings I attend it, with no vote, because the law does not allow it, representatives of parliamentary groups who do not have representation in the Bureau of Parliament. In Catalan there is a very nice word to say:'reason', which means speaking using reasoning. Since the presidency of the Bureau we will strive to ensure that there is a climate of understanding and that we do not generate polemics. We will continue to forge insults, malicious insinuations and empty words of this Parliament. We defend our positions from the dialog and express, clearly and, if so, vigorously, our ideas and opinions, but always from the respect that has characterized us as the people. The dialog is the foundation of this building, the respect for the discrepancy is the pairs and the will of understanding is not the roof. Without the conjunction of these three elements, the structure truncated and cau. We keep guarding the fortress of this building, and above all, we always keep the windows open to listen to the popular will and the door open to embrace the people's needs and longings. I want a parliament to rise, to approve laws to help those who need it most and to make life easier for all citizens; laws to help eradicate social inequalities. I want us, as Members and Members, to be proud to see that our work improves and facilitates people's lives, that they feel that there are Members and Members in Parliament who work for and with them. We are here to serve the people, because politics serves the community. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Eduardo Galeano, Uruguayan refugee writer in Catalonia, fleeing the dictatorship of his country, wrote: « Utopia is on the horizon. I walk two steps, she steps away two steps and the horizon runs ten steps further. Then what is utopia for? That's what it's for, to walk. That the Parliament is converted into the place where utopia is manifest, that the sleeps of the street enter the Parliament, that the longings of the citizenry find refuge to the hemicicle. MPs and MPs, we are at the height of the moment and we are presenting the future in this process, that the legislative arrival of this Parliament follows the creation of a legal framework conducive to giving more freedom and sovereignty to all citizens in all spheres. We paradigms call for a new Parliament, nine wills call for new policies. We're not slaves of the past, we're creators of the future, we're working on the next three hundred years and not the last three hundred. This house is the main forger of the future, let's carry it well. With this 11th parliamentary term of the modern Parliament, we're tanking the autonomic stage and routing a new scenario tomorrow. We are still aware that we are leading a founding moment. Now and here we create a before and after. From now on, we are a sovereign parliament, which wants to represent a free people, a regional parliament of limited competences, detailed and recouped to a national parliament with full powers. These are the last Constitutions we've had and now we want to get them back. [[The president shows a full room.]] We want a parliament of all and for all. We make a country free, full of citizens free, that, once and for all, we stop admiring ourselves in others and can be ourselves the miracle and model to follow. A few days after the 15th of October it is obligatory to remember the figure of what was the first president of the modern Parliament in 1932 and, later, president of the Generality, which was executed for the Franco regime with the help of the Nazi regime. We are talking about Lluís Companies, executed seventy-five years ago and that the Spanish State has not yet repaired its memory or its lawsuit. He and various Members of this House died defending the cause of freedom, democracy and Catalonia. His memory is with us, which never faded. Lluís Companies succeeded in the presidency of the Generality in Francesc Macià, the first president to restore self-government. In 1930, one year before the proclamation of the Republic, he wrote the proleg to the translation to the català of Mahatma Gandhi's first biography, made for Romain Rolland. There he said: "Not all battles are won in a day. The force will never detract for an instant from the hour of a people who have the firm will to free themselves and is always willing to make all the sacrifices that freedom often costs. MPs and MPs, let's stand to walk, let's start the process constitute. The Eleventh Legislature is hereby constituted. Target democracy, visca the people will rise, visca the Catalan Republic! [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] I invite you to sing the national anthem of Catalonia. [[The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Strong applause and perlongats.]] Let's raise the session.
