i-aefd694fe3690a33-17	Mr President, I would like to Michael Rubbestad has asked me how I intend to act to ensure that these student loans of SEK 490 million are repaid to Sweden and the Swedish people. Initially, I would like to emphasise that education is the safest way to work and self-sufficiency. Upper secondary education, often provided with student support, is often described as a watershed in the labour market, as unemployment is significantly higher among those who do not have upper secondary education. Getting into work also increases the possibility of student loans being repaid. Sweden has one of the world's most expanded study funding systems that makes it possible for more people to study, thereby increasing the chances of getting a job. In order to safeguard our study aid system, it is of the utmost importance that those who take out student loans also pay back the loans, and the vast majority of borrowers handle the repayment very well. The Central Board of Student Aid, CSN, has since 2015 been commissioned by the Government to increase the repayment of unpaid debts with a particular focus on borrowers living abroad. The Authority has also received increased funds to step up efforts to recover unpaid debts from these borrowers. The work has had an impact in the form of a higher rate of repayment and increased payments on decommitted loans. The ratio of payments to nonresident borrowers has increased in recent years. For 2020 it grew by 3 percentage points from the previous year. Increased payments mean that the risk of future depreciation of student loans is reduced, which is of course positive for the national economy. I am following CSN's intensified efforts to recover unpaid debts and will not hesitate to consider further assignments to CSN should the repayment rate turn in the wrong direction.
i-EJmRH97kdPZsgpBckUDFja	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If I go to the bank and ask if I can borrow 90 000 SEK to study for a year, that is, about the same amount that CSN lends, the bank may praise me for wanting to invest in myself and in my future by making me more attractive and more employable on the market. The fact that education is the safest way to work and self-sufficiency is agreed between me and the Government, but that is not what we are debating here today. No matter how good my intentions may be with the loan, the bank will first and foremost have its loyalty to its other customers. And since it is the money of these small savers that is being lent, the bank of course wants to ensure that I pay back the money. If I do not now receive employment and perhaps even leave the country, how can the bank ensure that I will repay this $100,000? If I cannot give a satisfactory answer to the bank, my loan will not be granted, no matter how important training is and how good the intentions and purposes of the loan may be. When the government and CSN grant student loans of SEK 7,616 per month to people who do not have a job and permanent residence permit, it is not their own money they lend, it is Swedish taxpayers' money. I therefore assume somewhere that the Swedish government, which has gained the confidence of the people to manage the tax money, like a bank, also has a plan for how to ensure how these borrowed funds are repaid – no matter what the purpose of the loan is. Or does the Government believe that it adopted a legislative amendment to grant loans without any idea of how to ensure that these loans will be repaid?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-27	Mr President, I would like to The Government's ambition is for everyone in Sweden who can work to work. We have one of the world's most expanded study funding systems, which enables more people to train and get a job. Education is the safest way to work and self-sufficiency. Getting into work therefore increases the possibility of being able to repay your student loans. The right to quality education results from the obligation to do the right thing by acquiring a job and an income that means that all student loans can be fully repaid and that one can contribute to society. No matter who you are, in Sweden you should have the same chances of a good future and your own income. As I said, upper secondary education is a watershed in the Swedish labour market to get a job. My hope, expectation and plan for these people is that they will take their upper secondary school degree and then be able to come to their first job and help pay back their student debt but also contribute to our common welfare. One measure, in addition to the ones I have already mentioned, which has been taken to recover the debts, is that the limitation period has been increased to 25 years, which means that even if people do not pay their debts directly, the debts will not be written off in the next few years. As I have said before, this is a priority for the government. I want every penny of tax to go to the right things. No one should use the systems. No one should refrain from paying back their debts, because that is our common tax money. This is also why, in recent years, CSN has received increased funds to step up its efforts to recover unpaid debts, especially from borrowers who may be resident abroad. The agency has increased the number of legal proceedings abroad and is also working in the long term to create the best possible conditions for increased payments. We can see that this has had an effect. The rate of repayment has increased in recent years.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-33	Mr President, I would like to At the end of May/ June 2021, student funds have been paid out to 6841 people in accordance with the so-called Upper Secondary Education Act. The total amount of these loans amounts to just over SEK 490 million, which we have already touched upon. Since the month of February, that is, in about four months, the amount has increased by nearly SEK 100 million, which corresponds to about SEK 700,000 each day. If we add the grant part, we will end up on the total line just over SEK 1 billion. Of these 6841 persons, 369 have currently obtained employment or income from economic activities and thus qualified for permanent residence permits, which corresponds to approximately 5 per cent. More than 99 percent of those who have received these means of study are men. Only 68 out of 6,841, under 1%, are women. As we have said here, CSN has the task of ensuring that student loans are repaid regardless of whether borrowers live in Sweden or abroad. In Sweden unpaid debts are collected through Kronofogden, if it needs to go so far, but if the person lives abroad, other measures are required. CSN normally needs to pursue a legal process abroad in order to recover the unpaid amount. As the Government says, repayments from abroad have increased in general, but the rate of repayment for specific Afghanistan has a completely different trend. There, less than half of them pay themselves. 92% of those covered by the so-called High School Act are from Afghanistan. CSN itself says that it is very difficult to recover debts from Afghanistan because CSN has absolutely no address details for the residents. Afghanistan's counterpart to Swedish debt collection confirms that it is very difficult in general to recover debts in this region. Furthermore, CSN says that court proceedings are unlikely to be initiated because the legal proceedings are difficult to investigate, and it is complicated to obtain information about the costs of representing CSN's actions. If CSN even succeeds, it is still not certain that the cost of the process will end up on the borrower, but it may land on CSN and Swedish taxpayers in any case. In conclusion, if a person has received student loans and then moves to Afghanistan, we can do nothing but simply hope for the borrower's good will to repay the student loan, even if we extend the limitation period to 25 years. The Government answers that she intends to monitor the matter. That's good, and so do I. But that is not enough, but the Government needs to do more. So in the specific cases of people who have received student loans, left Sweden and then moved to Afghanistan, the Government says that she will not hesitate to consider further assignments to CSN. What are the missions, besides extended limitation periods, that can ensure repayment? Who pays for the measures? Is it the taxpayer again?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-40	Mr President, I would like to Everyone in Sweden has the right to a good education that creates good conditions for life. The aim is for the group mentioned by the honourable Member, like everyone else in Sweden, to be able to take a high school degree, which leads to a greater chance of work. Getting into work also increases the possibility of paying back your student loan. For me, education and work for all is, not least as a social democrat, an absolute commitment. This makes Sweden a stronger society. I am aware that the Swedish Democrats do not really share that vision, but rather you break the basic principles on which Swedish society rests. It becomes clear once again when you choose to take that kind of debate in which, in this case, you are subjecting the right to education based on ethnic background. I don't do this. Instead, it is self-evident to me that every individual grows with education. It makes society stronger. Everyone who can work should work, but to be able to work in many cases requires an upper secondary school education. I would like to emphasise once again that repayment is a priority. I want every penny of tax to go to the right things. If you have taken out a loan, you must also pay back your loan. This applies to everyone with student loans. For this reason, CSN has in recent years received increased funds to step up its efforts to recover unpaid debts. There has been an increase in the number of legal proceedings abroad. Long-term efforts are being made to create good conditions for increased payments. The honourable Member here mentions Afghanistan. If it may be of interest, CSN is clear that it is clear that debt recovery in war-torn countries is more challenging, but CSN does not consider it impossible, but believes that it is also possible, of course. Everyone who has taken student loans must also pay back. If it is of interest, I can say at least for the record of the House and for those who listen that the borrowers are not many, but all of whom CSN has registered in Afghanistan today pay off their student debt. In August, CSN will present its report on how the agency has continued its efforts to improve repayments from primarily resident borrowers and the results of the work. You have to report to the government. Based on what they present, the government may return if we consider that new measures need to be taken.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-46	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Radio alerted us on this issue in December last year, and we can see that they were right. I have not heard anything in this debate that has changed my mind. I was hoping the government and the government would have a clear plan. If a decision has been made to grant loans, it should also reasonably have been decided how to repay the loans. But I feel after today's debate that my hopes were a little high. Whether or not it was right to introduce the so-called High School Act, I and the Government do not agree. It's clear. But that is not the question I am asking the Government today either. Whether loans affect the importance of education and increase the possibility of becoming employed is also not what I am asking about today. What I want to know is that in cases where the people have obtained a loan but have not obtained a job and therefore have to leave the country, how do we ensure that these financial resources come back? The debate on the importance of education is a completely different debate. The Government states here that we do not really have the same view of the importance of education, but I would say that we actually have the same view, namely that education is important. Now the law is what it is, and I only wish to respond to how we ensure repayment from the individuals who have left the country and moved back to Afghanistan, not the importance of education. There's a deal. I feel that this is a difficult question for the Government to answer, but I still ask one last time.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-50	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect to the honourable Member, it is a simple question to answer. I have also answered the question several times during the debate. Sweden has one of the world's most generous study funding systems. We know that education is the best way to move on to work. Anyone who has the right and the opportunity to receive student funding also has an obligation to repay their student loan. That's how the system works for everyone. If this is to be sustainable in the long term, you must also pay back your student loans. That goes for everyone. I want to sum up what I said today. The government does not take care of unpaid debts lightly. We have taken many steps to improve repayment. Among other things, CSN has the task of improving repayment operations, not least from borrowers resident abroad. We've seen results. There are more people paying back their debts, and that's good. I will continue to follow the question. If necessary, I will take further steps to ensure, as far as possible, that loans can be repaid. They are to be paid back, and that applies to everyone. However, I strongly oppose the Swedish Democrats' description that this should have to do with ethnicity. Everyone has the right to receive a good and generous study funding system if you are living in Sweden, but then everyone should pay back their student loans. That's the system, that's the plan, and that's how it works.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-54	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel has asked me if it is reasonable that Swedish students studying in another school system should be punished for that school system succeeding better than the Swedish one in getting students to perform the maximum. He has also asked how I can explain the current calculation model if the intention is that foreign upper secondary school grades should as far as possible be equated with grades from the Swedish upper secondary school and that pupils regardless of the country in which they studied should compete on equal terms. He has also asked what else I mean that a student who has studied abroad with a maximum grade should do to get the same chance as a student who has attended Swedish upper secondary school to enter the most attractive education courses at Sweden's leading university. Furthermore, he has asked me if these students can expect me to take steps to change the current calculation model. As I answered Markus Wiechel on a previous question on the same subject, it is the Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR, which gives regulations on merit evaluation of grades. This includes determining how grades from foreign education should be valued in relation to grades from upper secondary school in Sweden. The starting point is that applicants with foreign grades should as far as possible be treated as applicants with grades from the Swedish upper secondary school. Each country has different admission rules, and this is also reflected in the assessment of upper secondary school grades. According to the UHR, it is common to have regulations in other countries that take into account not only upper secondary school grades but also other criteria, while in Sweden upper secondary school grades and university tests are used as selection instruments. This means that grades in the Swedish system have much greater consequences than in many other countries with the selection function they have at the time of admission to the next level of the education system. Without an adjusted assessment of foreign grades, students who have attended Swedish upper secondary school could find it difficult to compete for places in popular higher education. It is always boring when people who have worked hard do not get into their dream education. For the individual, it can affect his whole life. The main rule for allocating places for selection to higher education is that at least one third should be allocated on the basis of grades, at least one third on university test results and at most one third on university decided selection criteria. This means that there are other opportunities than grades to compete and be admitted to higher education. UHR is the government's expert authority and best placed to make assessments on merit assessment of foreign grades. It is within UHR's mission to continuously evaluate the consequences of the admission rules. The fact that the agency revises its regulations based on newer admission statistics shows that the agency carries out these analyses and also makes revisions where it is necessary so that applicants to the university can compete on equal terms, regardless of the country in which they completed their upper secondary education. I do not intend to propose any changes to the authority's regulatory powers in this area.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-60	Mr President, I would like to Not long ago I opened Facebook and looked back at an old event. It turned out that today, exactly 14 years ago, I sat on the plane from the United States to Sweden after six years in American school. With me I had a high school diploma and some grades from distance studies in Swedish to be eligible for a Swedish university. The school was never something I thought was very funny. I was hardly someone who had a lot of ease for all the subjects, but I had to fight. I worked hard, and thanks to my parents I arranged the distance courses Swedish A and B so that I became qualified to Swedish university. After a lot of hard work I got good grades and could apply for the education I wanted at Linköping University. I could get into the program I wanted because I tore and because my parents pushed me and did what they could to keep me fighting. I also had a desire to come back to Sweden after many years. As a 13-year-old I promised myself that the day I had to decide for myself, that is, when I left home, I would return to Sweden. My parents still lived in the United States. I didn't really have anything that made me have to come here. Mr President, I would like to Today I had not come in, for the simple reason that the criteria have been changed. I have just the same grade as before. For me, this doesn't matter much. I have no ambition to apply to that program again or to anything else. On the other hand, it affects thousands of others. We have no idea how many people can be expected to return to Swedish universities after a number of years abroad because of their parents' life choices – not their own life choices but those of their parents. They are being punished for that, Mr President. What is the justice in this?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-66	Mr President, I would like to It is quite obvious how Markus Wiechel from the Swedish Democrats also describes people moving around the world, between different countries and for different reasons, and taking part in different countries' education systems and opportunities to build themselves stronger for the future. I am among those who think it is very important that we have these opportunities for people who move around the world, not least young people. I had a slightly different debate here just now with a party friend of Markus Wiechel. Well, in this case, it is the UHR, the Swedish Council for Higher Education, which is the expert authority. They are best suited and it is their mission to make assessments on merit assessment of foreign grades. This includes determining how grades from a foreign education should be valued in relation to grades from, for example, upper secondary school in Sweden. During this year's review, UHR has concluded that the grading distribution among those who have applied to the university with upper secondary school grades from the United States, as the honourable Member mentions here, is very different among the applicants with a Swedish upper secondary school degree. The university, we should remember, is the part of the Swedish education system that builds on the Swedish upper secondary school. From my point of view, it is important that students from there should not have a worse chance than students from other countries of being admitted to higher education. That is why it is important that it is precisely an expert authority that, within its mission, is responsible for making this merit assessment. It is also the one who has decided on a conversion table. At the moment, I see no need to take any other action. There is a responsible authority, it has this in its area of responsibility, and I believe that it is the authority that should make these assessments in order for it to be as fair as possible.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-73	Mr President, I would like to The government's parade for the past year, if not to blame other actors, has been hiding behind their own authorities. We have seen this over and over again, which does not make it any less regrettable, and unfortunately we see it in this case too. If you see, as the responsible minister, that there is an obvious problem, and I sincerely hope that the Government does, I expect action to be taken. We can of course hear in the answer that you want it to be a level playing field. Students should have the same chance, regardless of which school they went to. Should we make the change based on different upper secondary schools in Sweden? In some schools, it is perhaps a larger proportion that performs well. Are their A ‐ grades less valuable than in those schools where there are fewer who perform well? It's exactly the same thing. I do not understand how one can claim that this is in any way about fair or equal conditions. It may be some kind of socialist justice, in which one should somehow punish those who come from an area where things are going relatively well. But it's not justice. There are absolutely different ratings. But if we take the USA as an example, that is, as the Government also said in its answer, not only grades that matter but also some other things – extra credits. This means that you may have activities after school that can be credited when you apply for college. The same possibility does not exist in Sweden. Then those grades should rather be valued upwards and not downwards because you don't have everything, as in Sweden. Here the package is complete, so to speak. The Government mentioned that Swedish students would find it difficult to compete. What does this have to do with something? The main thing is that it is equal and fair and that it is assessed on the basis of the same criteria. You don't do that today.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-79	Mr President, I would like to In order for us to have a system where admission to higher education takes place on equal terms, foreign grades must be valued in relation to Swedish upper secondary school grades in a correct way. This is of the utmost importance and the conversion tables prepared by the competent expert authority UHR guarantee an equivalent valuation. I have confidence that the authority with expertise in this area will handle this task – greater trust than if it were the Swedish Democrats who decided which grades are good enough or not to make it further in the Swedish education system. The UHR has also recently been in the Committee on Education and Training for this reason and has told us about the work that is being done as an authority under its responsibilities. I hope that the Member or party friends of the member of the Education Committee will also ask these questions to the Authority because it is responsible for developing this conversion model. Then I would just like to add to this debate that it is too well then that we have a system in Sweden where upper secondary school qualifications are not the only way to be considered for the higher education that one would like to see. This is one reason why not least I as a minister but also we Social Democrats are very keen that there is still a chance to compete for higher education even with the university test. The government has, of course, taken a number of measures during the pandemic to increase the possibility of conducting the university test. It is an important second chance to be given an opportunity to compete for the training that is most sought after; it is a selection system, quite simply.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-82	Mr President, I would like to It is of course great that there are different ways to get into an education, that you can apply through university tests and so on. However, it does not change the fact that if your parents have chosen to live abroad and so you study abroad, for example in American high school, it means that you are discriminated against. It is a question of pure discrimination on the basis of which school you have happened to attend. Again – it's not about performance or how good you are. The Association of Swedes in the World had a clear example of this. A young girl had struggled and got top grades-- she couldn't get higher grades in U.S. high school. So she came to Sweden, and then her grades were counted as 19, 0, not 20, 0, just because she had been in American high school. This is not fair. It's completely unreasonable. As the Government itself mentioned, foreign Swedes are a huge resource for Swedish society. It is people who have spent a few years abroad getting contacts and new lessons and who are coming back. Why shouldn't they have the same opportunity? Because they don't have the same opportunity. It doesn't matter what the government says-- they don't have it today. I myself am a clear example of this. I went myself, after reading about this, in and checked on the validation. Why are my grades lower today than 14 years ago?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-86	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we know that people move around the world, between different countries and for various reasons. The education systems of different countries are shared; I think that is important. Every person grows with education. This makes it possible to have a better future – to get a job, to support yourself and to contribute to society. It is important that this works well for everyone involved. As the responsible minister, I think it is a matter of course that admission to higher education in Sweden should be done on equal terms and on the basis of Swedish admission requirements. This means that grades from foreign education need to be valued in relation to grades from upper secondary school in Sweden. UHR is the expert authority. The UHR has also recently been in Parliament's Education Committee to answer precisely the questions relating to how the agency has taken responsibility for this type of conversion model. I hope that the Member or the Member's party friends in the Education Committee then put these questions to the UHR. It is in UHR's mission to continuously evaluate the consequences of the admission rules, and it is the Authority that is best placed to make assessments regarding merit assessment of foreign grades. The honourable Member should know that it is not easy to conclude that a higher percentage with the highest grades means that students in that school system have achieved the maximum. It is not possible to draw such conclusions, including according to the Authority UHR. We can also see here in Sweden that we have a joy certificate problem, which does not always mean that you have the knowledge you need to move on to the next level. It is important that we have authorities that have their area and responsibility to ensure that this is done in a correct and equivalent way.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-91	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Stuart has asked me if there is a strategy developed by the Minister and the Government for the re-launch of the cultural sector and what it looks like in that case. The C ovid-19 pandemic has hit the cultural sector hard. Cultural experiences are often based on people meeting and engaging in or engaging in cultural activities together. Therefore, the restrictions that have been necessary during the pandemic have severely limited the conditions of culture. At the same time, the government has made a number of specific efforts to mitigate the economic impact on the cultural sector in order to enable supporting parts of cultural life to survive and restart after the pandemic. During 2020 and 2021, a total of SEK 6.2 billion has been paid out in crisis support. The government has also decided on comprehensive general crisis measures, which are of course also intended for companies in the cultural sector. The government has also increased state subsidies to the local and regional sector, which also plays an important role in the financing of culture throughout the country. But already in December 2020, the government also set up a study on the re-launch of culture that will contribute with reflection, analysis and proposals for action forward so that culture has the potential to be a strong and independent force in the future as well. As special investigator, the government has appointed Linda Zachrison. The assignment shall be presented by 30 September 2021. The report of the study will provide an important basis for identifying the continuing needs and taking appropriate measures with a view to relaunching the cultural sector.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Not least during the pandemic, we have seen that many cultural practitioners have experienced major problems and reduced opportunities for jobs and income. All practitioners have been more or less affected. But those that have been most affected are amusement and theme parks, which have lost up to 80 per cent of turnover, as well as theatre and concert hall companies, which have lost 57 per cent of turnover. The Agency for Cultural Analysis gives the following summary of the impact of the pandemic on the cultural area: firstly, reduced and changed cultural bids; secondly, loss of revenue and income and other economic consequences; and thirdly, increased uncertainty about the future of culture. We hear from many people that at the moment we are not sure whether we can get back into business at all after the pandemic. The support consists mainly of own resources and ideas. Then there is the opportunity to apply for sponsorship and grants of various kinds from the state, municipalities and regions. State aid has come in different rounds and had different tasks and different names, and there have been a little different authorities to send their applications to. This has not been easy to relate to. Many practitioners struggle for survival and easily get lost in the bureaucracy. But, Mr President, and I say a lot because I do not know which rules apply and which authority to turn to, and when you do not know it, it is difficult to act. We hear that the government has set up an investigation for the re-launch of culture, and that is very good. The investigator shall submit proposals to the Government on 30 September. My question is whether we could find out a little more in detail from the Minister for Culture how she thinks about the re-launch of culture. I think that many with me think it is a long way to the end of September, and many would like to know now. There's a lot of people waiting to hear from you.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-103	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Magnus Stuart for an important interpellation. The concerns he expresses in the question to the Minister are, of course, shared by the entire Moderate Culture Committee. We Moderates have a great commitment to the survival of the entire cultural ecosystem. And it has been tough during the pandemic for the cultural sector, a sector that in many cases requires opportunities for people to meet and socialize to take part of it offered. This is also why culture has been particularly hard hit when society has been put on hold. For a painfully long time, the cultural sector has had to wait for information. Unfortunately, when we meet the actors in the cultural industry, it is not too unusual to provide us with the government's slowness and uncertainty that complicates the planning of the work ahead. It is not rarely that the Minister for Culture and the Government has acted only after we Moderates and the opposition in this Parliament have gathered a majority in favour of strengthening support and action. It is, for example, a question of aid to individual traders, as many in the cultural sector actually are, a support that we proposed last June would be set up and that the government only came back with proposals in November. For example, it was also about the support for events, which means that cultural and sporting events that are planned will be guaranteed to cover 70% of the costs in case the pandemic stops and makes it necessary to cancel. It was a moderate proposal that gained a majority in this Parliament in February this year, but which the government and the Minister for Culture tried to take credit for when it was included in an extraordinary amending budget in April. Support for municipalities and regions, short-term lay-offs, conversion aid, shut-down aid if the pandemic law is used – the list can be long where the government has dragged its feet and is only shot after moderate initiative. Mr President, I would like to Now it is necessary to replace the reactive attitude with the proactivity of the government. I would therefore like to agree with my colleague Magnus Stuart's question: does the Minister for Culture and the Government have a strategy for re-launching the cultural sector, in addition to the planned relaxation of restrictions, and if so, what does it look like?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-108	Mr President, I would like to Like my colleague Viktor Wärnick, I would like to thank our colleague Magnus Stuart for a very important interpellation. We are, of course, all concerned and have been so ever since the pandemic struck a year and a half ago and particularly affected the cultural, sports and tourism sectors. Now we are here to discuss culture and sport, for which the Minister has a responsibility, to get further information on how to look forward. But we will also look back a little bit on how the management has so far looked, and some of Viktor Wärnick has presented. It's been hard. We should definitely all have respect, regardless of which government is sitting, because it is difficult to deal with an invisible enemy with whom we have not previously had such extensive contact in our country and globally. We must also respect the great commitment shown by the Minister for Culture and Sport to her office and, above all, to her competence in culture. On the other hand, it has been difficult to interpret and interpret what has really been the case, and that was very clearly expressed in what Magnus Stuart said in his reply to the Minister's interpellation response. This with strategies is very interesting. In my world – I have a military background – strategy is a kind of flow chart, i.e. that based on the outcome development of different crisis managements there are different ways to go. The word strategy has also been commonplace in the debate and in the replies from the government. I am also privileged to sit on the Constitutional Committee, where we have looked at how the government has handled the pandemic so far from a constitutional and legal point of view. In short, the Prime Minister has said that there has been no strategy. Yet a strategy has been referred to. It has been published on its website. It has been perceived by authorities as governing bodies, although this has not been the intention. And it has not been decided or prepared in the way it should. In this confusion, it is clear that, as an opposition and society, we find it difficult to interpret what the government's strategy is, in addition to a number of objectives. We now see that, in the end, a sort of plan has come from the government. In addition to the report to be presented on 30 September, the Swedish Public Health Agency has been commissioned to report, as they did on Monday, the opportunity to conduct major events in a vector-proof manner. We will come back to this in the following interpellation debate. At the press meeting with the Public Health Agency and the government on Monday, it was an oral presentation, that is, there are no documents to disclose about what was said. It is of the highest interest that those involved in the cultural and sports world and other stakeholders, supporters and above all we in the Swedish Parliament get clearer information about what applies, because time passes, and time and lack of information costs money.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-118	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking all the moderate Members of Parliament involved in this debate. I think it bodes well for the re-launch and future of culture that this broad commitment to the cultural sector is in this House. I want to be clear about that. As Magnus Stuart says, it has been a difficult situation. We have to deal with an unknown virus. It has required different types of restrictions. It has hit culture very hard. And there has always been uncertainty as to how long the crisis will last. After all, we have looked back a little bit on the crisis aid that has been presented, and just as the Member of Parliament says, they have been presented in batches. We were very early out with the first half billion to culture. Then it turned out that the pandemic would not pass and that the consequences would not ease in the short term, so towards autumn we presented further major initiatives and have also replenished them during this year. As far as subsidies are concerned, I fully understand that operators in the cultural sector have felt and still find it difficult to know where to turn. My basic entrance has always been that we need to review the supports and adjust them if necessary so that they are as accurate as possible and reach out where they are most needed. We have had to work with several contributing authorities because the cultural sector is so multifaceted. Support is not enough for everyone, but we need to reach out to the voluntary culture, to the assembly halls and to regional culture through the collaborative model. We have the cultural companies and the film industry with its conditions and cinemas, and we have the individual creators of culture in particular. The support that has been distributed through the Department of Culture's contributing authorities has come out relatively quickly. We have had time to distribute support in several rounds. These, according to the reports I have received, have been widely appreciated and have been very important for the survival of different actors and for securing jobs in many different businesses. However, these aids have had to be supplemented by various types of business aid, not least short-term lay-off, but also conversion aid and the aid to individual traders mentioned by Viktor Wärnick, which I also think is extremely important. It is good that they came into place, but I too can wish that some support had come into place earlier. Sometimes these aids have come out of step with each other, but I would like to assure Members that I am following this and analysing whether the Ministry of Culture can make adjustments so that the various actors get the money they need. Let me return to the strategy. There is an inherent difficulty in creating a strategy when the consequences are not yet clear. As you know, we are working on a re-launch of the cultural sector, and this will be a basis for seeing how quickly this re-launch can take place. What's going on in the fall? The Public Health Agency sees that there can be a fairly clear reopening. But there are still clouds of concern in the outside world that we need to deal with, which we will come back to in the next interpellation debate. It is therefore important that this investigation is set up. It will present proposals, analyse the conditions for recovery and make visible initiatives that have been established during the pandemic to make culture accessible and that can be taken forward in the re-launch, not least digitalisation. It is also about the structural problems which the country's cultural sector has and which have become visible and which we are now discussing and which I hope we can have broad support to overcome. We have also given several other analytical assignments to other authorities, and I can come back to that in my next speech. In conclusion, I hope that all of this will give us a broad basis for the strategy forward.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-130	Mr President, I would like to Some positive developments have also emerged during the pandemic. The cultural sector, as well as other parts of society, has taken major steps forward in the area of digitalisation. We will certainly see more digital events in the future, but we need to find ways to get paid even at digital concerts, plays, art exhibitions and more. Thanks to digitalisation, the market for our practitioners can be so much larger than before the pandemic. Think how much larger the market every cultural practitioner can get if they can also in the future be partially digital and reach a significantly larger audience. Think also of what this can mean for sustainability: fewer trips and less environmental impact. I am fundamentally convinced that most people want their audience live, but a combination of live and digital can be sustainable in the future. Mr President, I would like to In the Culture Committee we have exchanges with, among other things, our Nordic neighbours. During the pandemic, our neighbours and we have had different strategies to deal with the infection in our societies. Now we have an important common issue ahead of us, and that is to reopen our countries and get full force in the cultural sector again. Many cultural practitioners depend on being able to have the entire Nordic market as their home market. My question is therefore to the Minister for Culture: Is there any coordination in the Nordic region in the field of culture during the reopening of our countries? Is the Minister of Culture in contact with colleagues in, for example, Finland, Norway and Denmark? Are we listening to each other and trying to harmonise the opening and the strategy for the future as far as possible?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-136	Mr President, I would like to The government's investigation into the re-launch of culture, to which the Minister for Culture returns in his response to the debate, is another telling example of the slow progress of the government in this work. Originally, the investigation would be completed on 30 June this year, i.e. in just a few weeks. So the plan for restarting that had to be in place much earlier, perhaps early spring, would not be ready until now. But in March, the government announced that the investigation will be delayed until the autumn. Now the measures for the re-launch of culture will not be presented until 30 September. Mr President, I would like to It is now the measures and hope is needed in the cultural industry, not later. To wait for autumn when we already see the light in the tunnel and believe that society is slowly starting to recover through vaccinations and reduced spread of infection – we hope it lasts – it is not enough to delay that long. Mr President, I would like to Will the Minister of Culture speed up the re-starting work in the government, or will the industry again have to wait for concrete measures, this autumn?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-140	Mr President, I would like to Summer is the high season for many cultural events and a lot of sport. Last year's season, for obvious reasons, was very limited for both culture and sport, and many concerts and sporting events were cancelled. In many other European countries, a strategy was already launched in the spring to have a long-term plan with regard to pandemic development. It is therefore sad that the inquiry that the Minister has set up has been delayed until the end of September, when this season too is over. The entrance to the investigation is the assignment that has been given to the Swedish Public Health Agency and that was reported on Monday. I am therefore limiting my question to the Minister because this was presented orally. However, many people are extremely interested in what the Public Health Agency reported. The mission concerned how major events can be conducted in a vector-proof manner and the need to adapt major events, for example through sectioning, testing or vaccination certificates. These are important inputs, and hopefully this can come as the next level of adaptations to public events in the plan announced by the Minister.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-144	Mr President, I would like to I wish I had several hours for this conversation, because there are so many parts to it. Let me begin by commenting on Magnus Stuart's question about cooperation and discussion with the other Nordic countries. Yes, we have a contact, and we follow closely their work. Since the other Nordic countries have been better off than we have when it comes to the spread of infection, they are partly ahead of us in the reopening process. They have also had more shutdowns than Sweden, so it is not possible to compare directly of. It has proved difficult in both Nordic and European cooperation to sync restrictions, both when introducing and reopening. I have respect for that, because it is about the ability of each country to introduce the measures necessary to limit the infection. We follow the work in the other countries closely and try to see what we can learn from. I would like to emphasise that internationalisation is very important for Swedish cultural life and for individual artists and free groups, not least in dance, which is very dependent on the European scene and also Nordic cooperation. The film is also such an area. Now it has been difficult because of the pandemic. We know that many actors are currently preparing to step out again and work for international cooperation. I think it is important that we also push for this. We protect our own cultural life, but we know that it will be at its best when there are opportunities for exchange and travel. It is not only that our cultural creators should go out into the world but also the other way around – it enriches our cultural life here. When it comes to the assignments and the investigation conducted by Linda Zachrison, I hope that the Members of Parliament understand that it is not because we think it is fun that we are prolonging the time of the investigation, but it is very comprehensive issues that it has to deal with. I want to see a thorough investigation and that the investigation feels that they have the time required for the ambitious work they are doing, with talks with actors across the country to try to rid us of the most important proposals. I think many would rather have wanted the investigation to have another six months, but I say that we must have the proposals on the table. But then, of course, this is not the only job. We have given several other assignments to various authorities. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis is currently looking at the review of the effects of the pandemic in the cultural field and produced a first report earlier this spring. The Board of Artists will report later this month on how the coronapandemin has affected the economic and social conditions of artists. The National Heritage Office has been given a special task to look at how they can serve as support for the country's cultural heritage authorities and museums. Then there are the contributing authorities, which are to follow up the developments, the consequences and the impact of the emergency aid they have allocated. A few weeks ago, we were able to announce that we have contributed another SEK 750 million to the cultural sector, just as we did to sport. This money will increasingly be directed towards the stimulus to restart. It was also part of the billion we had for this year. The event support that the Moderates have been pushing for in the Committee on Culture, about which there is now a broad consensus and which I correctly present as part of the government's budget, for which I naturally need to take responsibility, becomes part of the re-launch. We need to work both in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term. I have seen all the different structural challenges that have been highlighted even more now during the pandemic, and there I have worked for the economic conditions and security of artists. With regard to our cooperation with regions and municipalities throughout the country, it is also important that we see that we have a common political responsibility for the re-launch. We have had very good discussions with leading politicians in cultural boards around Sweden and will continue to have it, because we need a common pool of forces for the re-launch of culture, together.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-158	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister is addressing the various authorities here. Who or what authority will be responsible for re-launching the cultural sector? I think that's a lot of people. Today, there are terrible numbers of authorities involved in the activities of cultural practitioners, and it is not easy to keep track of who is responsible for what. I recently calculated that there could be an eight ten authorities, of which the Minister listed several, to which each practitioner must relate. It is difficult, and this has been shown not least during the pandemic. The list of authorities is too long, and with my own experience as an entrepreneur for 35 years, I would say that there is no way to keep track of who to turn to on the various issues. There must be changes here. There is much that needs to be done when Sweden restarts after the pandemic. It will be a drag on resources, but if culture does not get the right support for the re-launch, it may be too long before we see a flourishing cultural life again. Does the Minister think that there may be a possibility that, in connection with the re-launch of the pandemic, we can see a reduction or merger of authorities that cultural practitioners have to deal with? And would it not be good if we could spend even more of the allocated budget on investment in the cultural sector rather than on government bureaucracy?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-162	Mr President, I would like to I want to give a picture of reality. Just a week ago, just days after the slightly larger conventions were allowed outdoors, I was in Helsingborg and attended a concert. It was wonderful to see the joy of both the organizers and the visitors to experience culture again together. The organizer I was talking to was fire and flames over finally being able to get started with business again, albeit in a small, limited scale. I share Magnus Stuart's view that we prefer to experience some culture live. I hope and believe that there will be a return to culture and to cultural experiences, which in itself will be an impact factor in the re-launch. However, I am convinced that in various ways we will need to support culture in the future in order to get through the pandemic and rebuild something better than what we left behind. The plan for the abolition of restrictions that we have presented will be of great importance, and the study on the re-launch of culture that I have put in place is an important piece of the puzzle in the work. I look forward to hearing the results. My ambition is to take advantage of the proposals on the basis that culture should have the best possible conditions for recovery. Then I am convinced that we will be able to continue with some of the long-term development issues for culture, not least the security of individual artists and creators of culture. The contributing authorities are very important, but it is also about being able to be ill or unemployed without being completely out of the system. So it has been too much during the pandemic, so this will be another important piece of the puzzle. I would like to thank you for the debate and for your commitment. I hope that cultural politicians of different colours here in Parliament will continue to join arms on these issues so that we can secure an offensive cultural budget and also necessary reforms in the future.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-168	Mr President, I would like to Viktor Wärnick has asked me whether I will act to ensure that the re-opening of culture and sport is not made more difficult than necessary. Annicka Engblom has asked me whether I would like to draw up a more flexible plan for re-opening arena sports and major events and, if so, when such a plan could be expected to be presented in time. I've chosen to answer the interpellations together. The Covid-19 pandemic has had a major impact on the cultural and sports field. A vibrant cultural life and a strong sports movement are extremely important for our common well-being and individual lives. The government has therefore taken several measures for the survival of these sectors and the possibility of re-launching them. In the past, the government has provided specific crisis support to the field of culture and sport, in addition to general support for jobs and entrepreneurship. Recently, the government announced that further crisis and stimulus support will be provided to the cultural and sports sector. In order to facilitate the planning of events, special support for events will also be provided. The support is one of the measures the Government intends to take in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement that the Government should urgently return to the Riksdag with proposals for guarantee support for culture and sport. On 27 May, the government presented its plan in five steps for the adaptation and elimination of the restrictions developed in connection with the covid-19 pandemic. On 1 June, the first step was taken, including the entry into force of new participation ceilings for general meetings and public events. The second stage, which is expected to enter into force on or around 1 July, includes further increases in the participation ceilings for public gatherings and public events, as well as increases in the participation ceilings for private gatherings. The step means that up to 3 000 participants are allowed in outdoor arrangements where the participants have been assigned a seat. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to assess, among other things, whether major events can be conducted in an infectious manner with the support of, for example, sectioning, testing or vaccination certificates. The Government intends to come back in mid-June with a position on whether there should also be a possibility of using vaccination certificates or similar for certain general gatherings and public events for a limited period. To determine whether it is possible to move on to the next step and introduce further facilitations, an overall assessment will be made on the basis of indicators developed by the Public Health Authority. It is about the spread of infection, the burden on the health care system and the degree of vaccination in the whole population. Mr President, I would like to Throughout the crisis, we have been clear that constitutional rights and freedoms should not be restricted longer than necessary and that measures under the Pandemic Act should be proportionate and not unnecessarily restrict activities that can be carried out safely from a disease-protection point of view. The Government is continuously monitoring developments and also has a close dialogue with relevant actors in the cultural sector and the sports movement.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-174	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Culture for the answer to the interpellations from Annicka Engblom and myself. As I am sure the Minister for Culture has noticed, there is a great deal of commitment on the part of us Moderates to the safe and effective reopening of culture and sport. This commitment is shared, I would say, by the cultural and sports industry, where there is a great deal of competence to do so. We all long for the concerts, the cinema visits, the performances, the matches, just to mention a few things that have been put on hold over the past year. Culture and sport have been living with unclear, slow and hateful messages for over a year. One example is the theatre and entertainment industry, which has had an impossible task in trying to plan any activity. Many there have been without income for a long time, and an entire ecosystem of cultural creators and entrepreneurs is being torn apart. Another example is elite sport, which in practice has had to exclude its audience completely and thus lose much of its income. Mr President, I would like to Now, hopefully, we are seeing the beginning of the end of this pandemic, which has destroyed so much for so many. Now there is also a need for a sensible and balanced re-opening of society in general, but for culture and sport in particular. The government has begun the first step in the gradual reopening of culture. I would like to say that I think it is a wise order to proceed with successive relaxations of restrictions, taking into account the evolution of the disease situation. Since 1 June, as we know, for example, the maximum number of sitting indoor audiences is 50 people and 500 people for outdoor audiences. But the audience ceiling applies regardless of the size of the venue, arena and so on, which has met with reasonable criticism from cinemas as well as elite football and others. One telling example is Friends Arena, which normally has a capacity of 50,000 in the audience during a football match, which means that the current audience ceiling of 500 fills only one hundred seats. I do not think there are so many seats available per person in this House today. There are 349 seats and some more for ministers, Speakers and a few more. I don't think we're gonna fill every hundred chairs even in here. This is therefore a bit strange, and it may well be considered restrictive from the point of view of infection. Similar undesirable effects may occur for the theatre and entertainment industry, where the rigid order would instead need to be replaced by dynamic rules. The industry also knows, as I said, how to handle the audience in a professional way. Plans for this have in many cases already been drawn up. The fact that the Government has commissioned the Public Health Authority to assess whether major events can be carried out in a contamination-proof manner is that in the eleventh hour, once again, push things to an indefinite and uncertain future. We need more clarity than that. I would like to know why the Minister for Culture thinks static audience ceilings are the right method. Would it not be more reasonable to have rules that aim at a percentage of, for example, the number of seats in an arena and to plan to gradually raise that threshold in different stages during the re-opening?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-186	Mr President, I would like to Like my esteemed colleague, Viktor Wärnick, I would like to thank Minister for Culture and Sport Amanda Lind for her answer to my interpellation on the reopening of arena sports and major events. The fight against pandemics is moving in an increasingly positive direction, which is both gratifying and to great relief. Around Europe, more and more countries are now opening up. Sweden is also opening up, but at a much slower pace. It is precisely with the slowness and slowness of the government that I would like to start by addressing, which has also affected the responsibility of the Minister for Culture and Sport. Already in the spring of 2020, that is, when the pandemic started seriously, several of our neighbours – Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands – developed strategies for how the country's cultural and sporting life could be affected by the pandemic. It was strategies and plans worth the name. I will come back to that. It was done by step, containing just a lot of time and a lot of time, depending on the pandemic development. It was strategies and planning designed in close and constant dialogue with the parties and representatives involved, with clear rules of the game and steps and with great consensus as a result. Mr President, I would like to But in Sweden, unfortunately, the government's management of the pandemic's impact on cultural and sports life has been characterised by just slowness, ambiguity and twitchiness. On a number of occasions, the Swedish Parliament has had to intervene and initiate legislation, as the government has not been able to do so. The support for events has been mentioned, and no one has been able to escape a rumbling cultural and sporting life during this time either, with frustrated and comprehensive demands for information on what applies. The support of over SEK 6 billion has been very important, and it is very important that we have been able to produce these support in great agreement. That's good. But lack of information also costs. That is why, today, we are trying to lie down with the Minister for Culture about a little clearer information. Mr President, I would like to Where are we today? Well, finally, after a year and a half of these twitching messages about various pandemic restrictions and where to turn, the government recently presented a plan for a reopening. The Minister for Culture and Sport explains in the interpellation answer to me and Viktor Wärnick briefly for it. In all honesty, however, I must say that the Minister's response to the question of clarity does not make me much wiser. Still, Mr President, the steps in the plan are very rough, especially with regard to arena sports and major events and especially outdoor activities. That's why I was extra curious about what the Public Health Agency was going to say on Monday. I still have no answer there. Disease control measures are still specified in terms of audience ceilings instead of, for example, percentage rules and adjustments to the design of the different arenas. This is despite the fact that several actors, such as Swedish Elite Football – very topical in view of what is starting today – and the amusement parks have been proactive in pushing the government's work, and despite the fact that they, in cooperation with experts on the spread of infection, already presented arena-specific plans with clearly adapted rules for audiences based on models from several European countries, including Denmark, which I have mentioned before. But the interest of the government to even consider these proposals has, so far at least, been lukewarm to say the least. Is it time to address these proposals now in the plans for reopening?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-194	Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that I have full understanding of decisions taken in the past on the closure of various activities. But now we want to look forward and, above all, all our players need confidence in the future and optimism. As I mentioned earlier, amusement and theme parks have been hit particularly hard during the pandemic. Very positive is now that they have been able to open up for more than a week, albeit with a very limited number of visitors. Liseberg in Gothenburg gets 5 000 visitors in one day, against normally 25 000, on an area of 17 hectares. Gröna Lund will receive about 3,000 visitors in one day, compared to normally 15 000, on an area of 3.8 hectares. Both of these facilities, although of different sizes, are very large for their surfaces. They have planned so that no spontaneous visits can be made, but there must be a booking before you can get in. We all want to see that these facilities can receive a larger number of visitors as soon as possible. Above all, the plants want to know more about the future in order to be able to plan. My question to the Minister is therefore: when – and now I am talking about dates – will the next decision be taken on any changes to the rules for our parks?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-198	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. The Members of Parliament make it sound like it is the government that has made up these ceilings and figures and what could be included in the first step. It's not like that. I do not think you mentioned the Public Health Agency in any of your contributions, but you know as well as I do that they have been an important part in bringing this forward. The first step, which was taken on 1 June, is not really to be seen as a relief, although it is for all the actors who are now cheering and can actually receive a little more audience – from cinemas to outdoor theatres and sports events. This has basically been about harmonising the rules and achieving better accuracy linked to the possibilities of the Pandemic Act, distinguishing between outdoor and indoor activities, where people sit or stand, and that sports races and similar sporting events are subject to specific regulation. From the government, we have checked with the Public Health Agency weekly – and sometimes daily – to find out when, according to their assessment, it is appropriate to take the first step based on the disease protection situation, the situation in the healthcare system and the risk of stress. Now we took this step, and it was very important that we finally got it in place. We've been working on that for a long time. What Viktor Wärnick says about the ceilings and numbers not taking into account the nature of the arena at all is not true; they do so indirectly. If you have an indoor space that is now able to accommodate 50 seated persons, you still need to comply with the Swedish Public Health Agency's requirements at a distance between seats. This means that a smaller room may be able to accommodate only 20 people. The same applies to outdoor facilities. This will affect the size of the stadium. When it comes to the big arena sports, the Public Health Agency's offer and message to us was that in this first step they wanted to wait to release large crowds, although there is of course the possibility of receiving more than 500 at Friends Arena; you yourself have illustrated that. I also know that the organisers are prepared for this. This is why we have now commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to return and to look at whether in the next step – Level 2 – it can be possible to take a step and make a decision on using sectioning where you have the opportunity to separate the participants and the people sitting in the audience. It is about having completely separate entrances and that people do not come into contact with each other and that you can therefore also receive a little more than what the next step means. The plan for the reopening, or restarting, of Sweden contains five steps. There are various indicators to show when it is possible to go to the next level of restrictions. I am very pleased that one of the very first things that is planned to be eased when we go to level 2 are precisely general gatherings and public events. This is, of course, because both the government and the Public Health Agency see that there are organizers who can take responsibility. There is a very nice and close dialogue between the Public Health Agency and various event actors. I have also spoken to them very carefully during the pandemic, as Members of Parliament here know. We have discussed various possibilities and solutions through the Council, for example. The Government has received the Public Health Agency's presented report on how the reopening could be done and processed. I hope, of course, that we will be able to take further steps to allow for as rapid and infectious re-opening as possible. We will inform you of the next step as soon as we have a message to leave.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-210	Mr President, I would like to The government governs the kingdom. It is accountable to the Riksdag. ..................................................... That is what one of the portal clauses in the form of government, which is one of our constitutions. It's in chapter one. 6 §, to be exact. It does not say that it is the Public Health Authority that governs the kingdom and is accountable to the government or to the Riksdag, but it is the government that governs the kingdom. That is why we are here today asking questions to the Government. So we have not called the Director-General of the Public Health Agency here to ask questions about these pieces, but we are asking questions to the Minister for Culture. Like many countries, many countries have succeeded significantly better than Sweden with the fight against pandemics, many countries have a more proactive plan for the re-opening of culture and sport. As mentioned, our neighbour Denmark has more dynamically opened up sporting and cultural events to those with so-called Corona Passes. A couple of thousand participants can gather at concerts and theatres indoors. For the highest league in football, Superligaen, there is a special model – the super league model – which means, for example, that seats should be divided into sections with their own entrances and exits, their own toilets and their own kiosks. In each section, a maximum of 500 spectators may be present. There is a requirement to wear a mask when you are not sitting in your assigned position. The purpose of the passport is to have a negative covid test that is not more than 72 hours old or that you are already vaccinated. We can also look at the Eurovision example in the Netherlands a few weeks ago, where 3,500 music fans gathered indoors. It felt like a bygone time to watch this party. This was done under infectious conditions. Mr President, I would like to If other countries can do so, Sweden can. Very many people find it difficult to understand the logic that many people can still be squeezed into shops and malls, where the maximum number should be relative and based on surface area, but that for example a cinema is not allowed to adapt the number of guests based on a proportion of the seating area. At this point, we cannot blame the lack of legislation. There are far-reaching tools for the government; just act. What's taking so long? That's the question. Mr President, I would like to I think the Minister will be guilty of the answer here. No one questions that the reopening should take place in a responsible and infectious way, but it is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It can also be seen that there are different conditions and that you can look more at the different conditions that exist around the country in terms of audience as a percentage and not as a static ceiling. The Minister for Culture tells us that the government will return with a statement when there is a reply. This applies, for example, to the planned vaccination certificates, we have heard from the government. We do not yet know whether they will be in time for 1 July or not. Nothing is certain, and it is unfortunately as usual with regard to this government's communication on culture and sport. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe that restrictions should be removed for those who have been vaccinated. The equality ideal has gone too far when the person who is fully vaccinated is still subject to the same restrictions as if he or she had not been vaccinated. The vaccination certificates, or vaccine passports, must be obtained without delay. Today is June 11th. What is mid-June, when the government would return with a message, can well be discussed. However, I would like the Minister for Culture to develop the reasoning on what might become the rules for major events in July and beyond. Is it that full-vaccinated persons are planned to have access to a more normal extent, and is it that the audience ceilings become more differentiated?
i-aefd694fe3690a33-222	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Culture for her second speech, which was very illustrative of how many people have understood this situation. I also listened to what the Minister of Culture did not listen to. This is my fifth contribution to a couple of interpellation debates, and I have mentioned the Public Health Agency in every speech. The Minister for Culture is still guilty of what was reported by the Public Health Agency regarding what we are discussing here at the moment with regard to major events, especially outdoor. If this is to be reported in mid-June, we will be there next week. The middle of June is June 15. It's my birthday. Maybe I'll get a birthday present in the form of some kind of news. I couldn't imagine a better birthday present. This applies not only to myself, but above all to Culture and Sports Sweden, which is still waiting for information. Why we're on is about the time aspect. Time costs money, and time costs commitment. You lose members, and supporters go up to the ceiling. You want to get started and watch the events. That is exactly what my colleague Viktor Wärnick says. No one should be able to say that we Moderates do not want this to happen in an orderly, safe and secure manner. The lack of information and proportionality is cloun on the whole. We're talking about accuracy. These actors have accuracy to handle, for example, large public events. It has the amusement parks and Friends Arena. They have a large organization around this. It does not have the Mall of Scandinavia, which is located right next to Friends Arena. There are plenty of people there, and there has also been the spread of infection. This must not be done in an infectious way where specific plans are drawn up, such as at Friends Arena next door. Is proportionality something that the Minister for Culture and Sport has been thinking about, and has she reacted at all to why it is valued in this different way? This also applies to the lack of information. Suppose that a message will hopefully come at the beginning of July that you can ease the restrictions and have 3 000 in the audience if it is in sports arenas or at other events. When, then, is the next message coming? Could it be that it will be all the way past September 30? This summer, too, has passed for the various actors. It is precisely in the summer that it is most active. Time is incredibly important. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Culture and Sport also refers to the requirements of the Public Health Agency. The Minister for Culture and Sport said that quite clearly. The Public Health Agency still has recommendations. Recommendations are those that should be included in the government's overall assessment, as it is the government that is expected to govern. This must be questioned in terms of handling. This applies, among other things, to the way in which the government has handled cultural and sports subsidies. The roofs are too rough. They apply differently to different players in the business world, even if they do not have different sizes. This ambiguity is so incredibly destructive to all these activities. We need to know.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-234	Mr President, I would like to Viktor Wärnick, Annicka Engblom and I have all three put interpellations to the Minister of Culture, all of which are about the time after the coronapandemine or in the final phase. It's about how culture and sport can open up again, get a faith in the future and get back to something like that when normal times. We had hoped to hear some concrete visions from the Minister about how to restart. Unfortunately, I have to say that we and all the actors out there in the public sector will have to wait until after 30 September to find out more about what the government's proposal is. I regret that and especially on behalf of all practitioners.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-236	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by commenting on what Annicka Engblom said about the Public Health Agency's regulations. It is not true that this is something that the government should decide on. When we have the Pandemic Act, we give the Public Health Authority the opportunity to issue regulations linked to the Pandemic Act. For example, there may be sharp requirements on the distance between seats. It may also involve other types of detailed regulation. Mr President, I would like to I do not think that is something that the government should decide on. It is wise that we have an expert authority that takes that kind of detailed decision. It allows for greater flexibility in a re-opening phase. I have never heard in this House that the M oderates are proposing that we withdraw that right of regulation from the Public Health Authority. I was a little surprised to hear that comment. Having said that, a few months ago, in April, the Swedish Public Health Agency presented a sketch of the various stages in which public gatherings and events could gradually reopen. These have been figures that have been known for a relatively long time. The Swedish Public Health Agency was then tasked with returning with a comprehensive plan and a proposal to the government on how to re-open. This applies both to decisions made by the government and decisions made by the Public Health Agency. The government has presented a summary of that plan. The government landed in it on the basis of the input it received from the Public Health Agency and of course also from other authorities and in dialogue with different actors. This means that we finally have a fairly timed plan based on indicators. There is currently nothing to suggest that we should not be able to take the step into Level 2 on 1 July. With regard to the exact date, of course, we need to wait for the public health authority's assessment. Have the various indicators taken place, and what does the overall picture look like? The Public Health Agency has pointed out that it has wanted stable development before definitely taking the step. I would like to repeat once again that there is no indication that we will not be able to take that step in July. We are now a very positive development of the spread of infection and the population in the healthcare sector on iva. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that this is still a fragile situation. If you hear the medical evidence, there's no positive tone. Now that we are talking about the re-opening of the autumn, which I am very animated about, it has an enormous impact on our cultural life, our business community and our sports movement. Nevertheless, we must bear in mind that there may be setbacks or unexpected situations that we may need to deal with. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to giving clear information on time, I wonder what the moderate Members of Parliament mean. It will be a bit difficult to decide whether we have entered Level 2 and the indicators have been met before we are there and can make the assessment and before we have received that assessment from our expert authority. When it comes to how we can open up to a little bigger events, possibly with vaccine certificates and using sectioning, these are issues that I have discussed carefully with the industry's stakeholders for a long time. Not least for the slightly larger arena sports and for that matter the concerts would be a very important tool and something that could soon be staged. As far as the vaccination certificates are concerned, however, we must agree that this is not just about equality aspects. It is very much a disease-protection issue. I follow and I know that the Public Health Agency is also monitoring developments around the world and the various tests that have been carried out. From my point of view, this is the most important issue that needs to be assessed. I have always said that if the vaccination certificates can be used to open Culture and Sports Sweden more quickly, we will of course consider it. There the government has said that we will return with a message. I can guarantee the Member of Parliament that I am working hard to take steps forward to reopen Culture and Sports Sweden in a vector-proof way.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-250	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government has made many mistakes under the coronapandemy. We have seen this, and the entire Swedish people have seen it. Now it must surely be time for the government to trade passivity for proactivity, one might think. The reopening of Swedish cultural and sports life is awaited, and many professional organizers are ready to take responsibility. Yesterday 6 037 543 vaccinations had been carried out in Sweden. Half of the Swedish people are vaccinated, and nearly a quarter are fully vaccinated. We are moving towards brighter times, but the government's slowness is the same now as it was then. It acted too slowly when the test capacity needed to be built up last spring. It was too slow to stop the infection from spreading in Swedish society. It was too slow with the vaccine purchases, which could have contributed to the goal that the entire Swedish adult population should be fully vaccinated by midsummer had been achieved. And you're slow again. I know that Sweden can do better than this. A still wonder, however, whether this government can do better than this. It will be up to the electorate to decide by September 2022.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-254	Mr President, the Minister for Culture and Sport. Today the European Championships start in football. I am a great football lover and former practitioner, as well as my whole family. My uncle even played with Puskás once on the Hungarian national team! We are very pleased about this. Allsvenskan, of course, takes a break for the European Championship. Allsvenskan is also covered by the largest arenas. Superetta continues under reasonable conditions. With the public restrictions we have now, but above all if the government opens up opportunities for audience numbers of 3 000 at the beginning of July, hopefully one can save a season so that it becomes reasonably. But for the big arenas it is still very uncertain. In addition, the Swedish Public Health Agency's message – I mention it once more – is that it should be possible to return to full activity by the end of September if all the indicators fall in right. The step between 3 000 and full opening is very great – hence my concerns expressed in my previous speech that a further opening may take a while, precisely because the step is so great. This should be considered by the government and the Minister for Culture and Sport. I return to my original question in the interpellation. It was precisely about this with a more flexible plan and when it could be expected to be presented in time. I also asked whether the government, or rather the Minister for Culture and Sport, would finally be interested in listening to the specific arena plans that have been put forward, among others, by Svensk Elite football. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer to this. We are all involved and naturally want the reopening to take place as quickly and as well as possible.
i-aefd694fe3690a33-259	Mr President, I would like to I have listened to the actors throughout the crisis. One of the reasons why we commissioned the Public Health Authority to assess the possibility of both vaccine certificates for major events and for sectioning and rapid tests is that these are ingredients that the sector would think would be very good, not least for the major events. We need them, and I share Annicka Engblom's view that this is a big step. That is therefore one of the reasons why we are giving this mission. If there were a possibility for a sectioning, for example, it would be possible to accommodate a little more people and more audience in different arenas, both indoors and outdoors, in some part of level 2. We will come back to you as soon as we have one. I would like to emphasise that I think it is important that there is now a plan for phasing out restrictions, even if, as I have said before, we need to be prepared for things to happen along the way. But the assessment is now that during the summer we will be able to gradually ease the restrictions and then lift them completely during the autumn. It has been an important starting point for both me and the government that, according to our constitutionally protected rights and freedoms, children and young people should have a better opportunity. I am very pleased that we are there now, and it is gratifying to see the outlook that actually exists in the sectors now that you have this plan to relate to. Then you start planning and preparing. There have been severe restrictions, not least on cultural and sporting life, for a long time. We all know the importance of these activities for an open and democratic living society. Thank you for the debate and I will come back to you.
