i-a3402b004d475cf5-2	Madam President, I would like Mr Hervieu has asked me what cooperation exists between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Justice to increase confidence in the rule of law among the country's entrepreneurs. He has also asked whether the government intends to make further efforts to strengthen companies' confidence in the rule of law and whether the government sees a need for further efforts to strengthen the conditions for Sweden to have a strong market economy. The goal of enterprise policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in growing companies through well-functioning markets with good framework conditions. The government sees the confidence of companies in the rule of law as an important prerequisite for achieving these objectives. Both the government's collegiate decision-making and the preparatory processes that precede the decisions ensure cooperation between both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Industry and other departments affected by the matter. The government has taken a number of measures to strengthen business confidence in the rule of law. For example, work against labour crime has been prioritised so that it does not pay to break regulations in order to gain advantages in the market. The Government is also working on the national crime prevention programme Together against crime and is investing in a unique expansion of the Swedish police. Madam President, I would like Since the start of police growth, the number of police workers has increased by more than 5,000. This means that we have come more than halfway towards the goal of expanding the agency with 10,000 employees between 2016 and 2024. In 2020, the number of police officers has increased in all police regions. There have never before been as many police officers in Sweden as there were at the turn of the year. More colleagues will make the police profession more secure and increase the effectiveness of law enforcement. In addition, the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Prison Service have also received increased resources. Madam President, I would like Sweden's competitiveness and the functioning of the economy are influenced by a number of factors where the government works actively with interventions in many different areas. One area for improving the framework conditions for enterprises is efforts aimed at simplifying the business environment and, as previously announced, the government intends to come back with new simplification policy objectives in the near future. Sweden's entrepreneurs can feel confident that the government is working for sustainable growth and conditions for more jobs in growing companies through, among other things, efforts to safeguard confidence in the rule of law. As Mr Hervieu had presented the interpellation during his term of office as a substitute for a member who subsequently took her place in the Parliament, the first vice-president admitted that Linda Modig could instead take part in the debate.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-9	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. My former colleague Hanne Hervieus' questions in the interpellation to the Minister for Economic Affairs highlighted three important aspects of corporate confidence in the rule of law. The Minister for Industry has explained and provided some examples of how the government works to ensure this. When you look at the background to the interpellation and researchers Niclas Berggren and Andreas Bergh's conclusions about Sweden's race at the Economic Freedom of the World Index from 19 in 2015 to 46 in 2018, you can see that it is within the quality of the legal system and the degree of regulation of the business community that the biggest reductions occur. If you yell a little more at what is called the quality of the justice system, you can see that it in turn depends on variables such as the reliability of the police and how agreements entered into are legally enforced. The corresponding study of increased regulation refers to re-enforcement of military service and to an increased regulatory burden for companies. The researchers point out that in terms of precisely the link between economic freedom and growth, it is precisely the quality of the rule of law that seems to play the greatest role in promoting good economic development. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with a high international reputation when it comes to being a modern welfare state with world-leading leadership in the field of climate change, respecting human rights and the rule of law. But, as you know, nothing is so good that it can't get any better. In order for Sweden to continue to be a country where entrepreneurs dare to continue to invest, risk everything they own and have to live their dream, run their own or their companies and hire employees, we as legislators and decision-makers need to be on toe and responsive to how we can improve the conditions for Sweden's entrepreneurs. Therefore, the loss of confidence in the quality of the justice system, the reliability of the police and the way in which agreements are legally enforced on the part of entrepreneurs is a worrying signal to be taken seriously. There are, of course, several possible reasons why the confidence of entrepreneurs in the reliability of the police has been weakened. One is perhaps that the police's capacity in some sense temporarily declined in connection with the major reorganisation in 2015 when the 21 police authorities and the National Police Board were transformed into an authority. Such a comprehensive transformation we understand takes a lot of time, power and energy from an organization's managers, managers and employees. Another explanation, of course, is the changing nature of crime and the spiral of violence and widespread gang crime that has unfortunately hit Sweden in recent years and which has challenged Swedish police, law enforcement authorities and us legislators in a tangible way. I'm sure there are more explanations. Madam President, I would like As we are now equipping Swedish police and other law enforcement authorities through the January agreement and strengthening the entire legal chain, it is important that public and companies' access to the police throughout the country is ensured. I see a clear risk that the gang crime that occurs mainly in our three major cities will receive a lot of attention and resources at the expense of other parts of our country. When the shopkeeper in Klimpfjäll takes burglars in the shop in the act and is told by the police that you cannot come, confidence in the police and the whole chain of justice is damaged. This is not just about the merchant in Klimpfjäll. In many of us, it creates a creeping sense of insecurity. We don't know if the police will be here when we have a crime. It is this kind of experience and event that makes honest citizens begin to question the social contract. If I can't feel the basic security when I need it, if I don't get help from the police when I'm affected by crime, if I stop police reporting shoplifting and stealing in my store because I know it's no idea – they'll still be written off right away – the community contract starts to nibble at the edge. I would therefore ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to develop his view of ownership, freedom of trade and the importance of a strong market economy. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs share my view that this needs strengthening?
i-a3402b004d475cf5-21	Madam President, I would like I am entering the debate because I reacted to the Government's report to Linda Modig regarding police employees and the development of police activities. There is a development. But it's too slow, and it's not enough. There need to be more cops out there. In an article last week, the National Police Commissioner asked that the police should be further expanded to cover larger parts of the country. I'm from the haulage industry. It's hard hit by the criminal networks. You steal diesel, and you pick up vehicle parts. You see the truckers' cars as spare parts and go there and screw tires, brake cocks, headlights, doors and vehicle panels. You also steal goods from the cars. Sometimes you take the whole vehicle. For the individual entrepreneur, this is disastrous. It puts sticks in the wheel and makes it difficult to run the business. It also leads to enormous insurance costs. Many simply throw in the towel. You can't keep going. You call the police and report the thefts and seizures that have taken place. But you barely have time to hang up before there's an email saying that the case is closed. It does not create confidence in the ability of the rule of law to access those involved in crime. On the other hand, the state is quick to take action against hauliers if one forgets to press a button in the tachograph and that sort of thing. So there is a fabulous imbalance between what you are exposed to and the answer from the authorities. It must go to another system of things in order to create greater confidence. Linda brought up the merchant in Klimpfjäll up in Norrland. I have my own roots up there. I also know how difficult it is when you're exposed to crime. But we don't have to go that far. It is enough to go to a small town called Bäckhammar in Värmland, in the border area between Skaraborg and Värmland. There, an entrepreneur struggles hard against the criminals who enter and steal from the store. They basically go in as shopping; they just don't pay. Time and again, efforts have been made to get help and support from the authorities. But society is unable to get to those who commit the serious crimes. It has gone so far that the staff in the store feel insecure when they go to work. For the small community of Bäckhammar, it is a disaster if the local trader closes down. Then those who live there must go to Kristinehamn to shop. As a result, entrepreneurs, traders and what they can be flee the countryside. It is not possible to operate, because there is no help and support to get from the Police Authority. Therefore, I almost react with my spine when the Government reports the development of the police. V ist there is a development, but it is not enough. Of the 5,000 new police officers, most are civilian employees. It's not wrong. Then you can free up police resources outside. However, the proportion of civilian employees can be increased so that additional police officers can be freed.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-28	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Linda Modig and Thomas Morell for a good and important discussion. Of course we're looking out over the world. There are also a large number of evaluations of the business environment, the degree of market economy, the investment climate and more. Sweden claims well in almost all these investigations. But just as Linda Modig says, there is absolutely no reason to sit back – quite the opposite. Sweden is a small, competitive country that also builds a large part of our welfare and security on foreign trade and investment and on being attractive as an investment country. There is no reason to sit back just because there is a measurement or two or in our case quite a lot of measurements showing that we have a good investment climate and a good business climate. We can also add that, unfortunately, crime is also dynamic. Even it changes. We had, as Linda Modig said, until 2017, a rather difficult situation when it came to the police. I'm sure some were about the reorganisation. I'm sure some were about the fact that there weren't enough cops. It created frustration in the police over not being able to make the efforts but also in the population. This applies, in particular, to the view of entrepreneurs that they do not really meet up when they are concerned about, or are affected by, crime. It is against this background that we together, Linda Modig, have built up and will continue to build on the Swedish police. And yes, Thomas Morell, those are the facts we're talking about. The facts show that there will be more police officers. The facts show that there will be more police employees. Of course that's connected. Facilitating and removing red tape from police officers, for example by having civilian employees, frees up time for police officers to be out. But that's not enough. Against that background, we will continue to work. Yes, the police have wanted resources throughout the period. An authority has rarely received more resources from a government than has been requested, Thomas Morell. But that has actually been the case with the police. Madam President, I would like As I said, there is a great deal to be done. We're working on it, including strengthening the police to increase reliability. We see that public confidence in the police has increased since 2017. That's good. However, that is not enough. I'd say it's about the same with the entrepreneurs. We also need to develop the other parts of the legal chain. The efforts of the prosecutors, as we do together, as well as the prison services and so on, are also needed. Madam President, I would like We also need to train the police to take on what is now growing and where I think the dark number is unfortunately great. Our society is undergoing a structural change with a higher degree of digitalisation. The Swedish companies are both innovative and willing to make quite major changes when they digitise the business. This will also increase the opportunities for those who want to engage in crime via, for example, the Internet and computers. Unfortunately, technological developments in both the regulatory and law enforcement fields have gone faster than they have in our authorities and laws and regulations. That's where we're working, and we're gonna have to keep working. It is one of the major areas in which we have every reason to do our utmost, together with the business community, to combat crime.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-37	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I very much welcome the determination shown by the Minister for Economic Affairs to seal the breaks in the social contract. We must never lose the citizens' confidence in our ability to fight back against crime. On the contrary, we need to ensure, even for citizens and Swedish entrepreneurs, that the police and the legal society are there as soon as security is threatened, whether it is in Botkyrka, Vårby or Malmö or in Boden, Vilhelmina or Malmberget. The possibilities of digitalisation are amazing. However, as the Minister for Economic Affairs notes, it is also worrying. Many entrepreneurs are already suffering from fraud. Online fraud is on the increase. Cyber attacks of various kinds affect both the public sector and entrepreneurs. More needs to be done here. We look forward to the centre against hybrid threats. In Norrbotten it is now perhaps the best time of the year: spring winter. Today it is reported that snowmobile sales are increasing, but unfortunately this also means that many traders and individuals are affected by snowmobile theft. Here in Mälardalen and southern Sweden you start laying out the boats at the docks again in May and June, and then they increase the thefts. It is precisely this type of crime that needs to be combated. The state must be right where crime strikes. Madam President, I would like There is one question in the interpellation that I think the Minister for Economic Affairs is not answering very much. It is about whether the government sees the need for further efforts to strengthen the conditions for Sweden to have a strong market economy. A strong market economy, of course, consists of several important elements. It is a question of the functioning of the market economy: honouring agreements, trust between the parties involved and delivering what is promised. It is also about the protection of property and the freedom to conduct a business, as I mentioned earlier. Constitutionally protected private property rights are of fundamental importance to both our democracy and our economy. Ownership is also a prerequisite for economic development and a market economy, as well as for long-term and sustainable development. It is also of particular importance to the green industries, which in turn are central to the Swedish economy. Domestic food and forest raw materials production needs to be strengthened and increased in order to reduce national vulnerability in times of crisis. This is something that the Center Party has thought and driven at all times and that now, during the Corona crisis, more people at last seem to have come to realize. For such development to be sustainable, property protection is crucial. Unfortunately, in recent years property rights have all too often been severely curtailed in the context of nature conservation, despite the obvious starting point of the right to use their own land. Areas with high natural values have been routinely excluded from active forestry, and most forest owners have thus obtained their ownership rights significantly restricted when larger and larger areas have been identified as worthy of conservation without the landowner having been entitled to compensation. A conservation status decision thus results in both financial losses and limited influence over the property. The Center Party has long pushed the issue of strengthening property rights, not least in relation to the green industries, and has been crucial to the fact that both the Forest Investigation and the Species Protection Investigation have now come to fruition. In the light of this, it is positive that courts have confirmed the fundamental and strong position of ownership in Swedish law in a number of indicative cases in recent years. I would therefore like to come back and ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to develop his view of these fundamental rights, such as property rights and freedom to conduct a business, and their importance for a strong market economy. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Center Party share the view that ownership needs to be strengthened?
i-a3402b004d475cf5-47	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. As has been said earlier in the debate, it is important for society to be strong in the fight against criminals. If we lose confidence in the ability of the rule of law to prosecute the perpetrators of crime, we are in trouble. Although the business environment is good in Sweden – which I would say it is on the whole – this is still hard on the entrepreneurs who are exposed to the criminal's progress. When you do not get the necessary support and support from the authorities, you will lose the will and ability to run your business further. I come from the haulage industry, which we have discussed several times, and I often talk to entrepreneurs there. Then I really get close to the small entrepreneur, because it's usually just one or two skiers it's about. They describe how difficult it is not to get support from society when you are exposed to criminal activities. It is simply being considered to close down its activities, which of course has consequences for the whole of society. If entrepreneurs tire of their trust in the rule of law, it will have consequences. I welcome the government's commitment to the police. That's good, but it's not enough. Criminals have a considerably faster recruitment path than the Swedish state has. Here it is important to increase the pace and get more people working actively on the ground and really hard against the criminals, so that we support entrepreneurship in the country.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-51	Madam President, I would like Yes, Linda Modig, we have a strong market economy in our country. We have it because the type of model that Sweden has and has had – with openness, strong regulations and not least strong confidence in the common – has made the business climate and not least the investment climate internationally seen as very good. Of course, ownership is also included; in Sweden, as in many other countries, you cannot get rid of your company or, for that matter, your property from one day to another. Does that mean, then, that we can settle down? No, of course it doesn't. We have to keep working. But there are also a number of things that we have done. We have strengthened the judiciary and the regulatory framework and made legislative efforts. Quite recently, in accordance with the Government's proposal, we also received a new competition law that will curb this type of fraud and infringement of competition, which we know is a major problem in many countries where this does not work, not least for the market. As far as property rights and the green industries are concerned, Linda Modig knows very well that strengthening them is part of the January agreement. I know that Linda Modig is a wise person who knows that there are regulations that often balance different interests with each other in terms of many of our basic industries. That's how we want it, too. We can compare with another legislation that the government quite recently decided to review, namely mineral legislation. We know there are property owners' interests. At the same time, we have an interest in increasing the production of innovation-critical minerals and metals in order to convert and electrify our societies and get rid of the climate problem we have created. At the same time, there are the interests of indigenous peoples, environmental interests and more. All this is to be balanced and done in a good way. We must work on this constantly because reality is changing, Madam President. When it comes to our work to curb crime, it is, as Linda Modig says, that we have had and have great concerns about organized gang crime in many of our big cities. At the same time, as Linda Modig has also testified, we have a lot of both companies and citizens in our sparsely populated areas who have testified that they feel abandoned. All of this must be dealt with, because it is essentially connected, we should be aware of. Then there is no shortcut, Madam President. Then we must constantly ensure that we provide resources, that there are more police officers, that those arrested by the police end up in the judicial system and that they are prosecuted if there are grounds for this. If you are convicted, you must also, of course, bear the consequences. In parallel with this, we work both in Sweden and internationally to curb some of the new crimes that arise. Unfortunately, I am quite sure that today we have a great number of dark spots on the new type of crime against intellectual property with the opportunities that digital technology offers and does. We must continue to fight this, because I think it is devastating for a country that wants to be in the lead and wants to take part in the fruits of digitalisation, both on the market and for people in general.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-57	Madam President, I would like We have a strong legal order, not least when it comes to the legislation on how we test environmentally hazardous activities, such as mining or other activities that require land. I would say that this legislation is rigorous and that we have the world's toughest environmental legislation. The concern is that it is being challenged by a galloping legal development in the EU area. The application that we have seen in recent years of, for example, water legislation and Natura 2000 legislation in the EU area raises concerns about how a country that is so rich in space can take up and exploit activities in the future. We have a strong market economy and a strong legal order in which we have the ability to balance different interests and make politically balanced assessments. Yet – Madam President and Minister for Enterprise – it is not only on this index that Sweden is collapsing. Sweden is also unfortunately falling on Fraser Institute's ranking when it comes to the policy index. Fraser Institute is a Canadian think tank, a think tank. This applies precisely to the parameters of legal certainty and time efficiency, i.e. fundamental issues of legal certainty. It is about the possibility of assessing the time required for proceedings and when you have your case completed. There is where the numbers for Sweden are now decreasing. Here it is important that the government urgently takes a firm stance on the issues that are important for the mining business. Another important area that is close to the heart of the Center Party is the work under the January agreement on simplification. There we are very happy that the simplification journey is now starting. I would like the Minister for Economic Affairs to develop the latter two parts. How can we continue to improve business confidence in the rule of law?
i-a3402b004d475cf5-62	Madam President, I would like You're absolutely right, Linda Modig. We have tough demands. That's what we're gonna have. I think that we are all basically proud that when we operate – whether in the forest or for that matter in mining minerals etc. – we have tough demands. Like many other countries I have seen, we do not do so. There you can read about poisoned rivers or water, or for that matter child labour and other misery that we unfortunately see not least when it comes to the extraction of innovation-critical minerals and metals. They are needed, for example, for solar cells, batteries and wind power. All these are things we need. We have tough rules. I understand and am very proud that we have companies that have nothing against this. On the contrary, they see it as a very important part of their competitiveness. They can proudly stand up because what they do does not unnecessarily destroy the environment and climate or, for that matter, people. Against that background, I think we agree that that is the way we should be. I know we are between the Center Party and the government. We also agree that we should not have unnecessary bureaucracy or that the processes we are using today should be far too unpredictable. The industry basically has nothing against the demands themselves, but the process itself. It is against this background that we are looking at all of this. I am also very pleased that we are now looking at the mineral law, Linda Modig, as well as the applicable parts of the environmental code that can come in here and also other regulations. This gives us greater predictability. This enables us to ensure that we are a country that helps in a sustainable way in the necessary climate change. At the same time, we are creating new growth in our country and new green jobs that are to the benefit of the whole country.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-68	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me, on the one hand, what measures I intend to take to ensure that state companies procure transport which complies with the rules in force, and, on the other hand, what measures I intend to take to intervene as owners against Postnord's obvious disregard for legislation on transport procurement. Postnord performs a very large number of transports in Sweden every day and the need for transport capacity increases. The Coronapandemine, combined with strong growth in e-commerce, has brought additional challenges to the entire industry. According to Postnord, total e-commerce in Sweden increased by around 40 per cent in 2020. Having said that, Madam President, I naturally expect the company also to comply with the current regulations under the coronapndemy, and I take the reports on unauthorised cabotage very seriously. Madam President, I would like The government is working intensively to promote healthy competition, road safety and a good working environment in the road transport sector. For this reason, the Government decided to strengthen the ordering responsibility for international transport and cabotage in the spring of 2018. Another important measure in this area is the appointment by the government in 2020 of a special investigator to propose how to strengthen the control activities of road transport. As part of the EU's so-called'movability package', adopted by the Council and the European Parliament in 2020, the government actively pursued in the negotiations a healthy and level playing field between transport companies within the EU and a high level playing field for workers in the EU's internal market. More specifically, regarding Postnord for the Ministry of Industry, there is a continuous dialogue with the company on the challenges of the road transport supply chain and the importance of ensuring order and order and the fair conditions of all its suppliers. The company was also called in for a special meeting in March 2020 where the company reported on how it works with transport purchases. This included improvements in procedures to ensure exemplary behaviour regarding transport purchases. Madam President, I would like In the current circumstances, such as the pandemic, this company has had to find new ways of working, including to ensure continued postal supply in accordance with international obligations. This, in turn, has involved the introduction of certain new procedures for transport purchases. As regards the aforementioned incident that occurred in February 2021, the Ministry of Industry has been informed of the measures taken by Postnord in relation to it. This includes, among other things, an evaluation of the company's current self-control and a review of all international transport lines. I intend to continue to follow the company's work on this issue.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is not only the Government that intends to follow this closely in the future, because I do too. This is the fourth time we have discussed Postnord and the illegal cabotage that the company uses. It is almost inclined that we can book future interpellation debates. There is no indication that the legislation will be corrected and complied with. The most worrying thing is that you don't take correction. It's one thing if you make a mistake and get caught with it. But when you show up time and again in connection with an illegal activity, it is troubling. This applies especially when the Swedish state is involved. There you should stand at the front with the flag in the top and show the way for how to comply with the legislation. You can amuse yourself with googling a little bit. Then you find a number of headlines. We're talking about Postnord. It says, "It just got wrong." But, please, what's so difficult to read inside in a law text? I can't quite understand that.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-78	Here I can stand and continue to read. This is what we've been discussing. We are now on the fourth lap. I don't understand what's so complicated about reading inside the text of the law. If you think it's wrong and you just don't understand, you get help. I can go and read the text of the law to them at Postnord so that they realize what the demands are on them as a transport buyer. The Government addressed the mobility package. It states:. the carriage of goods by road by domestic road carried out in a host Member State by a non-resident carrier shall be deemed to comply with this Regulation only if the carrier can provide clear evidence of the previous international transport operation and of any subsequent cabotage operation carried out. Where the vehicle has been in the territory of the host Member State within the four-day period preceding the international transport operation, the carrier shall also provide clear proof of all transport operations carried out during that period. It's plain language. It then turns out that, when the mobility package goes on to read on, it reads as follows:- Experience has shown that in some parts of the Union that provision has been used systematically to circumvent the temporary nature of cabotage transport and as a basis for a continuous presence of vehicles in a Member State other than the Member State of establishment of the undertaking. Such unfair practices risk leading to social dumping and endanger respect for the legal framework for cabotage. ..................................................... Here is the Swedish state inside and contributes to social dumping! I find it remarkable. I understand what the Government will say, but we will see if there will be any correction after this debate.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-82	Madam President, I would like I believe that Thomas Morell, with his background, is well aware that this is a very challenging industry both in our country and throughout the Union. I can thus conclude that this is not just the challenge of Postnords and state-owned companies, but the whole haulage industry in Sweden has challenges that need to be addressed. It is against this background that, in recent years, the government has taken a series of measures specifically aimed at commercial transport. Combating regulatory violations in the haulage industry is a great help for those industry actors, including Postnord, who want all transport to be carried out according to the rules in force. That is why, Madam President, the government is working intensively on the issue of measures to combat commercial traffic, including when it comes to road haulage, which we are discussing today. We do so in order to promote healthy competition, road safety and a good working environment in the road transport sector. That's it. For example, through a change of regulation, the government decided to tighten up the ordering responsibility for international transport, which is what we are discussing today, among other things. We also decided on cabotage transport in spring 2018. Furthermore, in August 2020, the Government appointed a special investigator to propose how to further strengthen the control activities of road transport. It is just as Thomas Morell says: this is an activity that is largely regulated at European level. That's why we're very active there. My colleague Tomas Eneroth was in charge of the negotiations on the mobility package that we are talking about actively the line that healthy and equal conditions should apply between transport companies in the EU and that it should also be the nicest conditions for those who work in the business. Madam President, I would like In addition, during our years of government, the government has strengthened the resources for control activities. Some of what we see surfaced in terms of Postnord – which we have had in some cases, as Thomas Morell says – and also in terms of the haulage industry as a whole, I think is precisely because of this. Is that enough? No, it's obvious it's not. I would believe – without knowing – that the number of darkness is great in this area too. That is why we need to continue to work in the industry as a whole. But of course, the state-owned companies, including Postnord, also need to continue working on their routines. I think I have said this earlier in our debates: does this mean that we can ensure that nothing will happen in the future? No, because reality is changing, too. I believe that Thomas Morell is also aware that the reality has changed dramatically over the past year. For the haulage industry, not least for road transport, this has led to a sharp increase. In the case of Postnord, there has been more than 40% increase in 2020, which of course has put pressure on finding transport and doing so in a fair way. In this specific case, it was also a transport between the Danish part of Postnord and the Swedish part. That's where you'd missed. This has meant that Postnord in dialogue me d Ministry of Enterprise has explained what changes will be made so that this does not happen again. Can you be absolutely sure that nothing will ever happen again? The ambition is it, but if you live in reality, you know it changes. Then you must constantly work with laws, rules and control and also with your own business.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There is a huge difference between making a mistake and planning to break the law. That's two separate things. Make a mistake. Everyone can make a mistake. Even Postnord can do that, just like any company. However, it is another matter to constantly appear in connection with unauthorised cabotage. In the answer, the Government says that there is a large number of transport and that transport has increased. Yes, they have. But it does not deprive managers of the responsibility to comply with the legislation. These are exactly the same requirements regardless of whether you have much or little transport; you have to comply with what is in the legal text. As for the incident of being stopped, it turned out in the interrogations that several transports were made. In this way, we see that, in principle, we do not care what is in the text of the law. When it comes to the illegal cabotage, cabotage in its structure is, according to the legal text, a temporary domestic transport in a host country. It should not be planed and rolled around in the same way all the time, but that is what is happening today. That is also the point made in the mobility package. A system has been created based on the existence of illegal and illegal activities. And here Postnord shows up all the time in this kind of transport! Tomas Eneroth has said in several debates with me that it has been a priority to tackle what is criminal in this. That's great. I am the first to say that it is a good thing to have that direction. But it bothers me that it is time and again the state is breaking the rules. I'm not comfortable with that. The state must be the one to comply with the law at all times. That there may then be a mistake is no wonder, because mistakes we all make. But they can't be regular and show up all the time, which they do. And it's not just about Postnord, but there's more government companies out swimming in cloudy water. There will be more interpellations in the future, only the police investigations will be completed. This shows that the state is not doing its work as it is written in the law book. Then you can have ideas about how the legislation is designed. It's another five, and then you have to push for a change of law. But as long as the legal text is in force, we have to comply with it, I as an individual, a company and the state. It does not matter that I think the legislation is wrong. I still have to follow it until it changes. If Postnord thinks that the legislation is wrong, you have to raise the issue so that there is a change. But as long as the law is written as they are now, Postnord has to comply with the law just like everyone else. As I said in the last debate, I hope we do not have to meet again and discuss Postnord. But I make myself available to the management of Postnord. I can go through the legislation and explain to them how it works so that there is order on the croft.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-102	Madam President, I would like I think we fully agree that this is not a voluntary job. Perhaps Thomas Morell can also talk to his party friends sometimes, who have also ended up in criminal offences and courts. It is just as Thomas Morell says: You might think that something is not as it should be. As Members of Parliament or politicians, we also have the opportunity to propose changes. One might think as a company that a law should not be as it is, and then one has every opportunity to argue for it. But it is just as Thomas Morell says: You have to comply with the laws that this Parliament makes and that the government issues. This also applies, of course, to state-owned companies. It is against this background that we have both tightened up our requirements, our ownership policy, based on the directives given by the Riksdag and of course also continuously follow up – not only when something has happened but through annual ownership dialogues with the state-owned companies. Madam President, I would like I will also be very clear that I have never met anyone – whether management or companies, either in the private sector or in the government sector – who had any ambition other than to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Yet, as Thomas Morell points out, it happens that someone is breaking a law or a regulation, and then it will, of course, be prosecuted. It is against this background, Madam President, that I am also referring to the broad work of the government to tighten up the legislation and follow it up and to provide resources to the police so that they can ensure that this is prosecuted. Unfortunately, Madam President, although we would like to do so, we do not live in the best of worlds in the ideal world. Even with the best ambitions, mistakes are made. There are also companies in this industry, not least in large parts of the Union, which may even put in a system to break laws and rules in order to be able to compete healthy businesses. Then it will also be prosecuted. Of course, neither government nor private companies should have anything to do with this. It is against this background that we always follow up and make sure that they report what changes they make so that this does not happen again. Then, as I said earlier, reality is not as simple as being able to sit back and say that it was then fixed. You must constantly continue to work, both in management and in the Riksdag and in the Government. Reality changes. Crime is changing, unfortunately sometimes too quickly for legislation and regulations to keep up with. This means that we must continue to do our utmost to ensure that this is curbed. I can assure Thomas Morell that we are both doing this and demanding it from our state-owned companies. Of course, we also follow up on the fact that they are changing their procedures so that they can prevent this as far as possible and act when something happens.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is important that we all comply with the legislation. Sometimes it gets crazy, and then you have to pay a fine. However, it is a little different when it comes to the state and the state companies. It may require them to take the lead in complying with the legislation. I am not saying, therefore, that they should be clinically clean, but at least they must have an activity that complies with the legislation. Then you cannot have a state company that constantly pops up in the cloudyest of all the waters you can find in the transport industry and constantly trawls after the cheapest transport. In this cloudy water we find manipulated tachographs. We see people sitting around driving pretty much around the clock, more or less until they fall down. We see excluded Adblue equipment, so that you do not follow the exhaust control of heavy vehicles – it will be a little cheaper to drive. We see false documents in the form of driver's license, YKB and driver's card. In this mess, with all this misery, Postnord pops up – time and again. It bothers me, as I said earlier. The state must have a better order so that you go first and show how it should be. I now sincerely hope that this is the last time we will discuss Postnord. This can't go on. It does not create confidence either in that company or in the way the state acts. It has to be a better order.
i-a3402b004d475cf5-115	Madam President, I would like It is not just that we can demand it; we demand it too. We demand that we take the lead not only when it comes to something as self-evident as adherence to applicable laws and rules, but also when it comes to being an example in other ways. It can be treating your employees and your subcontractors properly – for example, by imposing collective agreements, which is extremely important. It may also be to ensure sustainability in the sense that it does not unnecessarily contribute to environmental degradation or otherwise contribute to harming local communities. We will continue to do so. Furthermore, we have just tightened up these requirements for all the state companies. I fully share the view that they must take the lead in dealing with matters in the most fair and correct manner possible. In the event of incidents, Madam President, action must also be taken. We also make sure that they do. We have done so through special meetings, and we are also constantly following this up with all the state companies. Madam President, I would like I would say that we are doing our utmost and will continue to do so, both to prevent and, of course, to act when something happens. Thank you for this debate. I am pretty sure that we will come back on some issue, albeit not in this one. I would also like to wish Thomas Morell and the Presidium a pleasant weekend.
