i-fdca63af5e683923-9	Madam President, I would like I want to tell you the story about Jack. Little Jack is born in a family where his father and mother drink a lot. Sometimes Jacks's dad takes drugs, and then he gets violent. Jack's small, he gets scared and he's worried, he's acting out at preschool, and he often wets himself. Pre-school staff feel that things are not right in the family but think that it may be a temporary problem. But when Jack comes with bruises and clearly shows that he does not want to be picked up by his father, preschool makes a complaint. Social Services accept the report and have a meeting with Jacks's mother, who declares that there are no problems in the family, that everything is fine. The investigation is closed. It's a couple of years. Jack goes to high school and is part of the tough gang that skips and drinks a lot on weekends. There are also drugs. Jack's one of the driving people in the gang. Social Services have been trying to volunteer, but Jack and his parents have been turning them down all along. One day it's going really bad. Jack's stabbing another youth in a robbery attempt. Youth goes to the hospital, and Jack gets caught by the police. But as a minor, he is handed over to social services. This time there's so much on Jack that the Social Services Board is doing immediate care according to LVU. Jack is placed in a special youth home, where he quickly enters an environment that unfortunately is very similar to the one who was at home in the neighborhood. Of course, the story about Jack is made up. But it could be direct from reality, for the progress of a young child is much about the family and the environment in which the child grows up. The family always plays a crucial role, and when the family fails, the environment, preschool, school and social services become increasingly important. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating questions about children and young people. We can see that society has become increasingly unequal. Economics, unemployment, addiction and loneliness tend to become a class issue. When we look at whose children are placed, we see that it is rarely about children from wealthy homes that end up in HVB homes, Sis youth homes or family homes. We know that the social safety net plays a crucial role. The single mother in the suburbs often has a much more fragile safety net than the family in the villa on the nice street. Children who are placed often reflect inequalities in society. At the same time, we know that in an unequal society everyone benefits from the fact that those who are the toughest get better. Here welfare issues are crucial – that there are good resources in preschool and school, and that there are recreation centres and a functioning social service. Madam President, I would like With a number of announcements to the government, the opposition wishes to highlight the need for more legislative changes in the area of children and young people. Here it needs to be mentioned that the Riksdag already in December supported legislative changes regarding, among other things, the transfer of custody, the care plan and that the child's legal representative should have the right competence. It also needs to be mentioned that on 26 February the government will present its investigation into how the principle of the best interests of the child can be strengthened when deciding on the cessation of compulsory care. The investigator is tasked with reviewing the possibility of bringing forward the transfer of custody and examining whether there should be an obligation to monitor the situation of children after a placement for a longer period of time, but also to review the possibility of carrying out drug tests on guardians when visiting or moving home to parents – all in order to ensure the situation of the child after a placement. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe that there is a need for a larger whole around the LVU, the law of coercion. Of course, it is important what happens after forced treatment ends. But it is at least as important what efforts are being made before an LVU and under an LVU, because if it is something we have learned about forced children, it is unfortunately that there are too many family homes, HVB homes and special youth homes that are not always very good at providing children with safe, safe and high quality care. The Mission Review programme has highlighted the situation in state youth homes on several occasions. There have been several examples of young people being beaten, sexually molested, and put in isolation rooms repeatedly and long periods. Those are terrible descriptions. If children's best interests are to apply, it must also apply throughout community care, in family homes, but also in HVB homes and special youth homes. Madam President, I would like There is another aspect of family home care and youth care that is unfortunately rarely highlighted in the debate. It is the families and social workers who actually see the mission as a calling and every day make great efforts for vulnerable children and young people. They're worth mentioning. At the same time, it is not possible to wait for a better family home or youth home, because as long as time goes by, more children and young people are suffering. Here we need to look at whether IVO, the Inspection for Health and Care, needs more muscle so that the major shortcomings highlighted in particular youth homes can be addressed, but also how supervision can be improved in HVB homes and in family homes. The report contains proposals to ensure the monitoring of, for example, family homes, including a proposal to create a national register. We Social Democrats are not opposed to this in substance, but we understand that it is not easy to force parents into a register. If we are to have such a register, all family homes should be included because the purpose of a register should be to ensure the quality of the business. Madam President, I would like Several exercises also address the need for follow-up and support after a placement. What this follow-up should look like is something that is reviewed in the proposal for a new Social Services Act but, as I said, also in the government's ongoing investigation into the best interests of the child. We Social Democrats believe that when it comes to follow-up, the time aspect can play a role, but the content is absolutely crucial. Finally, Madam President, I feel it is important that the issue of children placed is now taken into account. Above all, however, we need to take a holistic approach to children who are suffering ill, long before they are forced to take care of them. A child does not choose which family it is born in, but it is often crucial for a child to have a family in which it is born. Therefore, the compensatory role of society is crucial for those children who do not get the right conditions. Madam President, I would like We in S obviously support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 15.
i-fdca63af5e683923-30	Madam President, I would like A childhood never replays. The importance of having a safe and good childhood may not be overestimated. We know that far too many children do not have this. In 2020, we were brutally reminded of this, as the story of a little heart was freshened up in front of us. But there are many of these children, and although the story of our little hearts was the start of a very important job, we all know here that there are many children who need better conditions, who need better regulation and who need politicians who really care and are capable of action. A broken childhood can cause damage and scars to the soul, as my colleague Mats Wiking described in his story about Jack. When the home is unable to take responsibility, it is important that society is there. In 2018, 22 800 children and young people needed input and were allowed to live in a family home according to SoL or LVU. That's a lot of kids, but we know there's a lot more of them getting hurt. What does a child need? Well, a child needs a lot of love. You get very far on a lot of love, but you can't just do it. And unfortunately, many children do not even have love where they should have it, namely in their home. But you also need food in your stomach. It hurts me to know how many children go to school every day without even receiving that meal. We also know that there are children who are allowed to go to school without wearing enough clothes when it is less than 12 degrees Fahrenheit [12 ° C]. You also need to be listened to, understood, seen and noticed to get the start of life that makes you a well-functioning person. Among other things, the extremely important family homes come in. The report we are discussing today contains a series of proposals based on the importance of family homes. I want to start by saying that we have many fantastic family homes. But we also know that there are children walking out of the ashes in the fire — from a terrible family situation to a family home that does not measure up. That is precisely why we need a register, and it should be binding, we believe. All family homes shall be included in a register. It should not be possible to have in a municipality activities that do not meet the quality requirements that one has the right to set up in a family home and then move the business elsewhere and continue there. But we also believe that there should be licensing. This means, not least, that you can lift all the fantastic family homes through training courses and that they can always be relicensed. But it is also important to review the assignment of our family homes. Madam President, I would like This is in many ways a new report, and I am very pleased about it. We have broken out claims from the general period of exercise dealing with vulnerable children. I would like to point out that this report contains requests from the Moderates, the Liberals, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. But the other three parties are not there. Why? Well, they simply chose not to include their proposals in the report. I may think there are many betrayals in this, but the most important betrayal I think is for the children. I see it as my job as a politician to work in all contexts for the proposals that we Moderates put forward and do my utmost to ensure that they get a majority. Therefore, we talk moderates to all parties in the Swedish parliament and do everything we can to ensure that these majorities exist. What does a child need? Well, apart from all the other things I've talked about, politicians who not only talk but are also prepared to act and make decisions are needed. On 12 March 2020, we Moderates put a committee initiative on Parliament's table. It had its starting point in the terrible thing that has happened, and in that we decided that it could now be good; this could not happen again. I can look back in many ways in a fantastic year, when the Riksdag has shown its best sides and eight parties have worked together to get a series of legislative proposals in place. That is why I am a little disappointed and sorry that we do not include the Left Party and their requests in the committee's proposal in today's report. They have chosen to reserve themselves, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The job we did then resulted, among other things, in having some proposals for new laws from 1 March. These include the care plan and the transfer of custody. There are no missing suggestions, my friends. In 2012, the Alliance government appointed an investigation whose report Children's and Young People's Rights in Forced Care was presented in 2015 but was not handled by the Red Green Government. 2017 came See the child! , a report from an investigation appointed by the Alliance in 2014. This, too, has not been dealt with by the Red Green Government. The Red-Green Government has also added its own investigation which in 2017 left the report A window of opportunity, but we have not yet seen the legislative proposals. My friends! B the year can't wait. Childhoods don't go on again. This means that we need to do much more than we do today. I had hoped that today we would see the Minister for Social Affairs in this House, but again this time she will not come here to discuss our vulnerable children. There are a lot of proposals to discuss. In addition to those I have mentioned in relation to family homes, there are, among other things, proposals to introduce legal requirements for mandatory drug testing by parents or guardians when they apply for access, when there is a review of treatment under LVU or when such treatment is discontinued. There are proposals on legal requirements for follow-up of placements in family homes or on-call homes to be documented in writing. This is a series of proposals which may seem small but which are extremely important in the further handling. Since the Minister of Social Affairs is not in place, I am thinking that Mats Wiking, who is in place, may be able to tell you why the Minister is not here and why nothing has happened to all these investigations. Isn't it time things started to happen? Why is there not a proposal on the bill list that we have read in the Committee on Social Affairs? They may be called Jack, Esmeralda, Mio, Sofie or Bobby– these children are many, and now there must be no more words and instead become action and change. I can assure you that we Moderates have only just begun our work on this. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-fdca63af5e683923-49	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are debating the report Questions about children and young people placed, and I am of course also in favour of all the ten announcements that the committee is putting forward. In addition, I would also like to endorse our reservation 12, which deals with child representatives. Madam President, I would like Just as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall mentioned earlier, a childhood never replays. I will be there as long as I have the opportunity to influence my voice for the children and young people involved in social services today, but also for those who have been or will be covered. The work and functioning of the social services are of tremendous importance to young people's chances of change, but they also offer a new opportunity in many young people's lives. Supporting and helping children in difficult situations in life is not only a matter of course, but the work of social services is also linked to feelings and feelings. A great responsibility therefore rests with the social secretaries but also with the local politicians in the country's committees responsible for these issues and in particular with the legislators. It is important that the right decisions are taken and the right efforts are made at the right time and that they are well balanced. In this report we are dealing, among other things, with the proposals of the Swedish Democrats on the certification of family homes and the development of a national register of family homes and on-call homes. This has also been presented as an announcement. The fact that Sweden has not previously had an organised family home system may seem regrettable, not least from a child's perspective, as it has actually risked putting children in an uncertain and precarious situation. Each municipality is responsible for recruiting and investigating its own family homes. They shall also provide family homes with training and ensure that they carry out good quality care. At present, it is difficult for a municipality to access another municipality's information. This means that there is an imminent risk that family homes that have proved unsuitable in one municipality can continue to receive children from another municipality, as families can register their interest in several municipalities. There is a lack of joint control. It is not reasonable that inappropriate family homes can repeatedly and without municipalities' knowledge of history make new applications that lead to them having children placed with them. Nor is it reasonable for family homes that have previously been taken away from children due to mismanagement, for example, to be able to claim that they have never received children before. It's unserious. By collecting family homes in a national register, the municipalities' scrutiny is facilitated, partly in order to avoid poor placements, and partly in order to find good, licentiated family homes in a structured and reasonably accessible way. In addition to this, it provides the opportunity to match the home with the young person's needs, with the aim of making the placement as good and successful as possible. The whole idea of placing a child is that the child should get better and get the care and support needed. If social services cannot live up to this, it is a major failure for every individual affected. In any case, placement means a separation in any form, although it is usually positive. Madam President, I would like We are therefore extremely pleased that this announcement is being made, and we very much hope that the government will act swiftly on this matter. One area that today can be experienced a little too definitely is when a family home is asked to take over custody. On this transfer, formal contact with social services ceases. This means that the family home, which then becomes the guardian, no longer has the right and access to social services' assistance in areas such as health care, child and youth psychiatry, or in terms of family support. This obstacle could make it difficult for some to take a decision on a custody transfer. We consider that to be a pity. It is therefore important that the support and supervision of social services continue even after a custody transfer has taken place, in particular initially or when the home needs it. There is therefore a need for a broad review with proposals for support measures in the case of custody transfer. Such support could mean that more and more children are given the opportunity to grow up in a secure knowledge of where they belong — in a family, that is. Madam President, I would like Over the years, we have noted that many children placed in homes under the Social Services Act feel that they are not being listened to. The ball ass between social services, family homes and possible biological parents. Children need to relate to all these to the best of their ability. It is important that the child and the young person have someone to lean on who is completely independent of the authorities and social services. What I'm talking about is a child representative. It's a person who should be there to support the child between family and social services, a bit like a good man. The idea is that the child representative should also be required to notify if he discovers irregularities or maladministration. The child representative shall also be given the opportunity to have a transparent view of the part of the financial support that is properly referred to as ‘recost allowance', which is intended to compensate for the costs incurred by the home for the child or the child. I certainly do not want to say that family homes generally take assignments to strengthen their private finances, but the fact is that such family homes exist. For this reason, it is extremely important to ensure that the money intended to go to the young person also does so and that it is not instead invested in new front doors or a new horse in the stable. I can be considered tough in my words, but here we have a problem that we need to talk about. There are solutions. Here's one of them. Madam President, I would like In addition to what I have said today, further announcements have been made to the government. There are many important proposals and improvements that lead to more secure investments, and we very much hope that the government will take on board the announcements. Moreover, I urge the Parliament to look at the proposal on child representatives at the next reading of these issues, so that we can also have a better life for our children.
i-fdca63af5e683923-65	Madam President, I would like So I stand here in the speaker's chair again and have the opportunity to talk about children's right to participation, to speak and, above all, to have security! Putting children first is incredibly important. This is something that the Committee on Social Affairs has been working on for about a year. This work has led to this autumn's decision, which came about through a bill and, above all, through announcements, in order to strengthen children's rights. These decisions were about knowledge requirements for public assistants and about what needs to be included when we consider a custody transfer. Today's report builds on the decisions we took last autumn. It was about working on strengthening children's rights. In this report, there are a number of concrete proposals that are now being made as announcements to the government. These include support for families who choose to accept a child and also transfer custody and follow-up when a child has moved back to his or her original family. These are two proposals put forward by the Center Party, which today contribute to the announcement. Now it is a matter for the government to start showing that it also wants to put the best interests of the children first. At the risk of getting tangled, I would like to say that, unfortunately, it is not enough to amend the legislation. We must also work with the knowledge of all the talented employees who work with children. Their knowledge needs to be supported, and we also need to look at the methods used in investigating children. Knowledge needs to be strengthened both in the social services and in the police and the judiciary. I think we also need to review the requirements and what you get in your basic education. From the beginning, one should be able to put children's best interests first. It is about children's opportunities for participation and to be heard and, above all, to have a safe upbringing. Madam President, I would like We will, of course, prevent children from having to be taken care of. We need to focus on supporting families who need support. For me, it is both voluntary and sometimes coercive action, in which we help families and the young one to come on the right side, if I may use such an expression. Taking care of a child is an incredibly large intervention. It's a matter of trying to do everything we can before this happens. As I said, it is a question of some coercive measures, but also of providing support for those parents who lack their care skills. But when it goes so far that we have to take care of a child, our family homes are incredibly important. Without them, this would not work. Then we must also ensure that family homes are given the resources and opportunities to be good family homes. They also need support. They need guidance and knowledge. Some of my colleagues have previously dealt with the issue of family home registers. It is something that I think is good precisely so that directly inappropriate family homes will not be able to move their business to another municipality. I also believe that such a register could facilitate the matching between family homes and children in need of placement. For the reason that a child or a young person moves between family homes can sometimes be that it did not get right from the beginning. The family did not have the child they have the ability to support in their everyday lives. So we need to be better at following up on the match. Again, a register could make these things easier. I mentioned before that the support, after a transfer of custody, must be able to continue to a family home, both for them to want to do this and for it to be good for the child to be there. The most important thing for me and the Center Party is the best interests of the child. That is why I am pleased to see that our proposal today is being heard in this House. Madam President, I would like What is very good for most children is when a placement can cease. Once the family has received support and the child can return to his or her family of origin, it must still be ensured that it is precisely in the best interests of the child. For this reason, I think it is important that social services have the opportunity to monitor the progress of the child when it has moved back home to its parents. One should not have to wait for new reports of concern, but we need to extend the time when social services can make a home visit to see that it actually works. Today is two months. I want to see that it can be up to a year that you have the opportunity to follow up the child. It is, once again, gratifying that this is gaining a hearing in this House today. But what is the government's response to the proposals contained in the report? Well, reference is made to ongoing or closed investigations. It is clear that things need to be investigated, but I would have liked the government representatives to have chosen to lead the way. What do we want? In what direction should we go to provide security for families and children? I hope that in the future the government will speed up and that they too will stand up for the best interests of the child. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a declaration, except in paragraph 19. I would also ask you to accept reservation 7.
i-fdca63af5e683923-79	Madam President, I would like Member a Martina Johansson mentions this with a national register of family homes. As I said in my speech, we Social Democrats are not against a register. There are registers for HVB homes, for example. What I miss is a small explanation of what the records should look like – where the social services should seek a family home that is appropriate and appropriate. What I know about the HVB registry is that it's just a presentation of different HVB homes. Does the Center Party intend that there should be some quality assessment of family homes in this catalogue or register?
i-fdca63af5e683923-80	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. How we build the register is something we could continue to discuss. What is important is to show what kind of family it is and what type of child or young person the family sees that they could support. The municipality that investigates must of course approve the quality of the family in essence. But also a family that has been directly unsuitable should remain in the register so that you cannot apply as a family home again. That is what is important about a register: to include those who are directly unsuitable.
i-fdca63af5e683923-81	Madam President, I would like Then it becomes quite clear, Martina Johansson, that in a register there must be points where you talk about family homes that do not work. I wonder how legal it is to have such a register of families. I guess that's a little bit why we're in doubt. But it's exciting to hear how you think.
i-fdca63af5e683923-82	Madam President, I would like Then I call on the government to take hold of the announcement that is coming today and to actually do this investigation, so that we ensure that it is legal to have such a register and how these markings are to be made. When someone is directly unfit, it is not about a mismatch between a child and a family and for that reason it does not work. These are directly inappropriate adults, who themselves have problems. There are examples of family homes where they have drug problems, for example. They should certainly not be able to take care of more children.
i-fdca63af5e683923-84	Madam President, I would like I would like to start this debate by saying that I am very pleased that our responsibility for children and young people in the care of society has become one of the top priorities of the Social Committee. For once, our vulnerable children take the political space to which they are entitled. I have great hopes that before the end of this term, we will have ensured that children's position in social care and youth care will be strengthened. All children have their own rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now Swedish law, precisely because they are children. It is the duty of each state to ensure that parents are not able to assume parental responsibility in their place. But separating a child from its family is one of the most interventional measures a society can do. It is an intervention with very great consequences that will affect a child and its entire family for the rest of their lives. Thus, when society separates a child from its parents, an enormous responsibility comes with it. The purpose of the placement is to give the child a chance to a good life. Therefore, a child being cared for should never get worse. Our promise must always be that it will be better. But we know that society has failed that promise over and over again. We have it with us in our history, and it is a fact even today. Although we know that there are enormous shortcomings when it comes to vulnerable children, the government has been too passive. Instead, the committee itself has had to act. Madam President, I would like It is the terrible fate of the little heart that lies at the root of the fact that something is now finally happening for children who are in the care of society. It is truly absolutely terrible that it can go so far before politics takes action. In fact, it's unbelievable. The fate of the little heart was set in the light, but there are now children who are going really badly without it coming to the knowledge of the public. There are children who do not receive the help they are entitled to, who are not heard, who are not seen and who are not respected. There are children who are left in terrible conditions and children who become completely invisible even though they are in the care of society. It is therefore incredibly important that, now that we are finally doing this, we make the right efforts. The most important thing is that we make changes that will make a real difference, so that when we are done we can say that we have really taken our full responsibility. Following pressure from the committee, the government has promised to present an investigation with proposals for improvements at the end of February. At present, we do not know very much about what that investigation will contain, but I am calling for a broad consensus on these issues and therefore believe that the proposals may be worth waiting for. That is the reason for our positions today. But let me be clear. For us in the Left Party, it is crucial that LVU becomes a comprehensive law on rights. We believe that Sweden is now ready, like our neighbours, to take the step fully and implement children's rights as its own props. We want the LVU to be expanded so that they are better adapted to the needs of children. We also believe that children who are in contact with authorities should be entitled to their own representative. Madam President, I would like We want a system in which our children become their own holders of rights, but we must also ensure that child rights are guaranteed. The hard truth is that we can write as many fine laws as we want, but it won't give much if we don't provide the right conditions for one to be able to live up to them. Social services play a crucial role in the work of children in vulnerable situations, but even if we know this, social services have been neglected for many years. The social secretaries are among the most important persons for every child who needs the support of society. That's where the investigation of both family and family homes is done. That's where the child has his contact. It is the social secretaries who will follow up the children's housing during the placement, and it is they who will follow them up accordingly. It's for the social security secretary the child should turn if something doesn't feel good. That is why priority must be given to the work of social services. The Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly states that children have the right to express their opinion and to be heard on all matters relating to the child. The views of the child shall be taken into account, taking into account the age and maturity of the child. However, a survey carried out by the National Coordinator of Child Welfare and Youth Care shows that a social secretary has, on average, one hour a day to contact children, young people and guardians. Only a small part of that hour is used for individual conversations with children. The social secretaries themselves testify that they often only see the child once or twice. How are they supposed to live up to the law? We know that the social security secretary has a very heavy burden, which means that they cannot take it. Staff turnover is extremely high. The experienced employees of children and young people are replaced by inexperienced, newly-exed secretaries with short or no experience in working with children. Meeting and the time to care for the child's story is of utmost importance for building trusting relationships. It will have a major impact on the final outcome of care. Today, the conditions for this are limited. If we are serious about children's having their rights satisfied and we never want to see a fate like a little heart, social services must be given priority. Then we must ensure that the social secretaries receive good education, the right support and the knowledge they need to meet the children who are in the toughest situation. Then we must ensure that the time and resources are sufficient. It is not possible to have this debate today without raising the situation at the state institution Björkbacken. In a report from the Mission review, several young girls testify to terrible violations and abuse. In 2016 I visited the department myself. It was clear that something was wrong, as I personally message Sis. But even that didn't make them act. It is clear from the Convention on the Rights of the Child that each State must regularly ensure that a child cared for by the authorities is treated well. 中 Life-threatening closures, systematic isolation, long periods of care in isolation, insulting treatment and abuse can never be seen as anything other than a violation of the Convention. That is why we have called Sis to the Committee on Social Affairs and we have also asked for a hearing. We in the Left Party demand that the government act to deal with the deficiencies within Sis. For us in the Left Party, our goal is that children be heard and listened to and that they themselves become involved in the decisions that affect them, that they are treated with respect and confidence, that no one lets go of their hand throughout this life-changing process, and that not one child or one youth should be betrayed when they are in the care of society. We support all our reservations.
i-fdca63af5e683923-103	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important to discuss these issues, and like May Karlsson, I am extremely pleased that they have gained a higher status and greater importance in the Social Committee and that we are now generally pushing everyone. I am therefore, I must take this opportunity to say, particularly disappointed that the representative of the Social Democrats, Mats Wiking, chooses not to heed my questions and ask for a reply. We will come back to this; I will have to have an interpellation debate with the Minister. I listen to Mr Karlsson and hear that the government is too passive, that politics must act and that we have heard that the government promises to present an investigation that we do not know what it will contain at present. So far, I agree with Maj Karlsson. However, when we look at today's report, we can see that there are five parties' claims. The Left Party, to which I am pleased to be accustomed, is a co-debater and a co-fighter on children's rights, chooses to reserve its rights. Listen carefully: Not only do you choose not to make your own claims with regard to vulnerable children, but you choose to reserve with the government parties. I have to say that this not only surprised me – it also made me rather sad. Should we see it so that the Left has now released its great commitment and no longer stands side by side with us the other parties when it comes to continuing to pursue these issues?
i-fdca63af5e683923-108	Madam President, I would like When Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the Moderates began the work after the events with a small heart, I was so happy. I thought it was so good that you took that step and really acted. We then had a very good cooperation in the group that was created and in which we are now also working to move forward on these incredibly important issues for the social care of children and young people. However, I'm really beginning to worry about the elevated tone that comes from the Moderates' side. For us, this is about having a broad consensus where we work together to achieve the very best possible child and youth care. But in debate after debate I hear how Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the Moderates raise the tone instead of seeking consensus. I was clear in my speech: the reason why we have acted as we have in this matter is that the government will present an investigation with a number of proposals at the end of February. So there is rather little time left. I want a consensus. I want us to move forward together, because this is about the children of society. Then I do not think it is strange to wait for what the government should do on these issues. I don't think it's simple either. There are things where we have had to consider. The national register is one example. However, consensus, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, is the important thing in these matters.
i-fdca63af5e683923-112	Madam President, I would like I think most people who have worked with me on these issues know that the commitment is both great and genuine. It takes something that we have missed from the government and that we actually continue to lack, and that is the power of action. I mentioned three investigations in my speech. I don't know if Maj Karlsson thinks it's a show of action when you have so many suggestions behind you. Then perhaps there is a reason to raise the tone. It is the task of the opposition to push for a government that has obviously not prioritised these issues for nearly six years. I don't know if Maj Karlsson has seen anything in the bill list that I haven't seen, but we're also missing in the bill list we've got for us continued ambitions and proposals from the government. Does Maj Karlsson not find this remarkable? Today we have ten announcements before us in the report where I would very much have liked to have seen the very consensus that Maj Karlsson is talking about – a consensus that we have sought with five parties, but where the sixth party that was previously side by side with the rest of us now no longer does. It would be very good, Madam President, if Maj Karlsson could tell us which of these ten announcements she can agree with so that we know where we have the Left Party as we move forward.
i-fdca63af5e683923-117	Madam President, I would like The fact that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is attacking the government is her full right. So do we. We are very critical of the government's actions. I am pleased to say that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the Moderates have contributed to pushing this issue forward, and we have supported it. We're right next door. However, it is not the government that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall attacks, but it is the Left Party. But Camilla Waltersson Grönvall knows very well why our claims are not there. It's about constructions. It is not about our political proposals. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall knows that. Now it is the case that we need to jointly push the government on those issues where we are not moving forward. Many of the announcements on the table today are in progress. What I and the Left Party are saying is: Absolutely, we are waiting for the government to come to the end of February to see if the fine words that have now been painted by the government are true. If they don't, the question is quite another one. My enemy's enemy is my best friend is a good expression, I think. It is not in the question of criticising the government that I am reacting to the tone, but it is that we are attacking the Left Party in this very hard way, although we know very well what work we are doing on these issues.
i-fdca63af5e683923-121	Madam President, I would like A safe childhood with undemanding love and loving requirements lays the foundation for a good life. Unfortunately, though, many people who have received community care during childhood testify that they have been ill during childhood. They were not listened to; they were not allowed to participate; they were not given the support and care needed to feel safe or to do well in school. They testify to the fact that the experience of the lack of social support does not disappear simply because they grow up and become adults. Instead, it is experiences that characterize them and that they carry with them for the rest of their lives. Too many people feel psychologically ill; too many end up in bad company, alienation, abuse and crime. Madam President, I would like These people have paid a high price for the betrayal of society, and we Members of Parliament must do our utmost to ensure that the betrayal is not repeated for more people. We must ensure that the law ensures that it is the child's safety, the child's best interests that weigh most when it comes to interventions and support during childhood. Madam President, I would like This may seem obvious, but in today's legislation the right of parents to their children outweighs the best interests of the child. We Christian Democrats have therefore worked for a long time to ensure that it is the best interests of the child put first in the team room. Almost ten years ago, the then Christian Democratic Minister for Children and the Elderly Maria Larsson appointed an investigation to provide better protection and community care for children and young people. The investigation was presented to the Social Democratic led government in 2015, but unfortunately the government did not proceed with the legislative proposals. Since then, we have continued to pursue these issues through parliamentary motions, but unfortunately they have not been supported. It is indescribably sad that the years have passed. Too many children and young people have paid a high price for the government's inaction. But at the same time, Madam President, it is gratifying that there is now a collective political will for change. Last year we did a job in the Riksdag to strengthen the law on the child's right to security when it comes to, for example, custody transfers. It is a legislative amendment that will enter into force on 1 March. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the other parties and the committee's officials for having worked well together in the working group that produced the bill. Today, the Riksdag takes several important steps to strengthen the security of children and young people who need the support of society by directing ten different missions to the government. I and the Christian Democrats therefore wholeheartedly support the committee's position, which also means that several of our proposals are now being approved. Madam President, I would like I regret, however, that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have chosen to opt out of the committee's position. However, I assume that the government will nevertheless follow Parliament's will, and I now want to tell you more about the proposals that we Christian Democrats have made and which will make a big difference in young people's lives. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, despite the good intentions of a social service, it is common for placements of children to result in breakdown, i.e. premature discontinuation of care. Studies show that breakdowns are more common when placed in family homes than in relative placements. The causes may be many, but in cases where a youth escapes from the family home, he or she has likely experienced major shortcomings in the quality of care. It is therefore urgent that the government should now be given the task of reviewing the mission of family homes and how to avoid breakdown. Madam President, I would like It is crucial that family homes are of high quality precisely in order for children to receive care adapted to their needs and rights. Part of ensuring and controlling quality is that the government is now given the task of establishing a national register of family homes. The register should also indicate whether there have been irregularities on the part of family homes in order to prevent more children from being placed in these homes. The need for family homes is great, but unfortunately it is difficult to recruit family homes in a large proportion of the country's municipalities. In order for more families to want and be able to open their homes to children and young people who need community support, it is important to improve the conditions and conditions for this important societal effort. It is important, for example, to strengthen the right to leave and the conditions under which social security benefits are paid, but also the right to skills development. Unfortunately, we Christian Democrats did not get support for this proposal in committee, which is why, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 13 in paragraph 17. Madam President, I would like Today, children who are family homes often lose their family homes when they turn 18 because they become of age. For some of these young people, the transition works well, but many end up in a major crisis. It is often young people who have a very tough childhood behind them with traumas, separations and abuse. And they often do not have a safety net to fall back on. When they lose their family home, they need to find their own place of residence, support themselves, and look after themselves. At the same time, they will be able to complete their upper secondary school studies. This is often overpowering, and many of these youths will need support in psychiatry as a result of this crisis. I am therefore pleased that, thanks to the Christian Democrats' motion, the government is now given the task of reviewing how young people can remain in their family homes until they turn 21 if they study in high school. The security that this extension of the placement can provide is also in line with the responsibility of guardians in an ordinary family for their child – this when the dependency of guardians is extended from 18 to 21 years if the youth is studying at upper secondary level or the like. Madam President, I would like Today, the Riksdag will make several decisions that can make a real difference and provide a brighter future for many children and young people who need the care of society. However, in order for the law to apply the best interests of the child to be stable and to have a high level of legal certainty, the definition of the best interests of the child needs to be put into practice. That work is ongoing. But if the government does not deliver a good enough bill, we are once again ready in the Social Affairs Committee's working group to take over the legislative process from the government. We owe it to all the children and young people whose lives are torn apart if they do not receive the support they need during their childhood.
i-fdca63af5e683923-133	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear KD Member Pia Steensland talk about the cooperation we have had in committee. It is important to emphasise this. We have different points of entry, but there is cooperation and we have done good work together in the committee group. The Social Democrats and the Government are dealing with the issue of committee initiatives so that they are dealt with in the Government's inquiry, which will present you as on 26 February. We want to wait and see what the investigation comes up with, if there is a bit of fine carpentry in order for the committee initiatives to be even stronger. I think it makes sense to wait for the investigation to be completed before the work is started. That is why we have reserved ourselves on many of the points, and many of these points are coming back. I would like to ask Pia Steensland: how does the KD intend to contribute to the continuation of good cross-border cooperation in committee so that we move in the same direction?
i-fdca63af5e683923-136	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Mats Wiking! From our side, we will continue to have a good dialogue with all parties. As I said in my speech, I very much appreciate the constructive talks we have and have had in our working group. I believe that it is a prerequisite for moving forward to review the political aspects of party politics and those parts. It is the whole and full entrance on my part and on the part of the Christian Democrats – that we should maintain a good climate and work constructively forward. Nevertheless, I would like to describe a little more why we are going forward with these proposals and support several proposals from other parties, Madam President. We believe, among other things, that a more comprehensive approach is needed. The proposals that are now before us are those that we have been exercising over during the general period of exercise and which we are now breaking out of the great social services report, which will come later. We want to lift the proposals and focus extra on children's safety. One of the Liberals' proposals is to review the whole of LVU legislation, which we believe to be extremely important. We look forward to the investigation that is now coming from the government, and we hope that it will do something good. However, all the elements contained in the announcements here are not affected by it, and that is why we are moving on with this. Should the government then judge that these announcements are being met with the investigation that is coming, that is fine, but we would like to point out that these are important issues to proceed with. We do not believe that the investigation presented at the end of February will affect all these parts, so that is why we are moving forward.
i-fdca63af5e683923-139	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an honest, good and interesting answer, Pia Steensland! Nevertheless, I think that the honourable Member understands that we would like to wait for the inquiry and conduct the discussion in committee on how to proceed with those proposals, so that it can be a good bill that puts the best interests of the child in focus. I therefore hope that we can continue the good cooperation we have in committee, Pia Steensland. We all want the best for the children.
i-fdca63af5e683923-141	Madam President, I would like I hope so too, Mats Wiking! However, if it emerges that the government will not answer the questions raised in this report, I also hope that the honourable Member will be willing to press on within his own party for these announcements to be met as quickly as possible. Because it is extremely important that we now do everything we can to provide security during childhood for those children who need the care of society.
i-fdca63af5e683923-142	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the richest and most equal countries in the world. We should be able to protect our children better than any other country. How can it be that when the government takes over responsibility for already vulnerable girls in their lower teens, sometimes as young as ten to twelve years of age, these girls suffer threats, abuse and sexual abuse? This was revealed in Mission review when describing the lives of the girls at the Sis institution Björkbacken in Gothenburg. This is a complete failure of the state and unworthy of Sweden. The responsibility for changing it lies with us in this House, and I do not want to hear a single word about what affects children being unacceptable from ministers who have power but do not want to use it. "Separation" sounds like a neutral word, but it's not. It is an extremely serious freedom restriction for all people regardless of age, but especially when we talk about children. Separation is the word for the physical intervention that Sis has the power to do. It is about the use of violence against children in forced care – physical interventions that are allowed within Sis but virtually nowhere else in our society. This means that children are physically held by staff against the floor or wall or isolated in a bare, descaled room. Another of Sis special powers is care in isolation. This means that you are cared for alone, without contact with other children in the department. One of the vulnerable girls in the program turned 13 one of the 215 days she was cared for in private. She was admitted to Sis youth home Björkbacken as a 12-year-old, after witnessing domestic violence. On Björkbacken she was held and isolated over 50 times. The UN Anti-Torture Committee has criticised the isolation of minors. It has no therapeutic effects. Separation always involves psychological damage to often already traumatized children, and it always involves a risk of physical injury. This is serious abuse by the state, even in cases where the separations are carried out correctly and with legal support. In 2018, the government stated that Sis would systematically work to reduce the number of captures and that the power could eventually be phased out. Consider my surprise when I realized that the number of separations instead increased by 74 per cent between 2018 and 2020. The picture many people have is that the separation action exists in order for Sis to be able to deal with gross criminal young guys with violent capital. That may have been the intention, but this has not been the case; boys and young men who have been sentenced to closed juvenile care are largely not separated at all. In 2020, it was decided to separate 41 LSU condemned young people within Sis. The corresponding figure for girls aged 12 to 15 years treated according to LVU was over 400. As a Sis girl, you are more than three times more likely to be exposed to separation than if you were a boy. If you belong to the younger age category, the risk increases even further – the youngest children are over-represented in the separation statistics. And it does not stop there, but the common denominator for the children who are most separated in Sis is the autism spectrum state or intellectual disability. The group is thus designated as a disability corresponding to those eligible for assistance under the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled People, LSS, Person Circuit 1. This is about a small group of children who account for between 30 and 40% of all separations in Sis Youth Care. If you are a girl, twelve years old and have an autism spectrum behavior, you are therefore most likely to be exposed to physical attachments and isolation in Sis institutions. Then the greatest risk is that you get bruises, panic over not being able to breathe and trauma for life. Let it sink in for a short while! Liberals demand that it should never be allowed to separate children. This is far from the first report on abuse of power and abuse in Sis institutions. Managers know, the Director General knows and the responsible Minister knows. I've also been contacted by personnel who have taken steps to report and take responsibility, but who, instead of receiving management support, have been threatened by staff they've responded to. What else is required for the government and responsible Minister Lena Hallengren to understand what is happening in the housing for which the state is responsible and put pressure on the Director General appointed by the government to govern and lead the Sis agency? This is an accident and therefore an accident commission is required to be set up immediately to ensure that: 中 measures are taken on the basis of the unique needs of the children placed This type of maladministration does not occur again. 中 responsibility is demanded by the bosses of Sis who have known but have not put an end to this. Mr President, I would like to Basically, our legislation does not protect our children and young people in the end. The proposal for a new Social Services Act, which came this summer, has serious shortcomings and needs to be revised in a number of areas. Forced law for young people, LVU, is also underdeveloped. Caring for a vulnerable child is the most radical measure society can take. Therefore, high demands must be placed on legal certainty and reasonable quality of care. LVU does not meet these requirements. The construction of LVU is difficult to understand and uneducational. During the work on the LVU investigation that Ceder submitted to the government as early as 2015, many testimony from social services personnel came that even they could not understand and get hold of the regulations. How, then, can one think that the affected children and their parents, family home parents, HVB staff and Sis staff will understand the law? It is a fundamental issue of legal certainty that the most concerned can understand the law. That is why we need a radical recast that makes sense. Ceders's investigation has made such a suggestion. Despite the seriousness of an intervention according to LVU, the Act lacks provisions on objectives for the law and what requirements vulnerable children have the right to impose on care. It's almost incomprehensible. Targets and clear requirements are basic prerequisites for effective supervision and quality development, which according to LVU is really in great need of. LVU must be based on children's need for individual quality care based on respect for the individual child. It is irresponsible that the government has actively chosen not to act in order for the most vulnerable children to be given the conditions for better living conditions. The forecasts for vulnerable children and young people today are anything but good. The risks of school failure, unemployment and dependency, mental and physical ill-health, abuse and crime are significantly high. Follow-up and post-care support under LVU also need to be strengthened, and opportunities for support measures need to be clarified in the Social Services Act. The tragic fate of Esmeralda should be enough for the government to show immediate action – for real. Today, there are children who, against their will, are forced to move home to their biological guardians with fear in their bodies. Other children have longed for home to their family but again find themselves vulnerable. Of course, there are also children whose biological guardians changed their behaviour. However, it tends to be a lottery. Social services are not given the right conditions to follow up the child over time. Many children are betrayed early in life, such as children who grow up with domestic violence and children with disabilities who are not entitled to assistance. Some children gather the pain in the body. Other children hurt themselves to endure anxiety. Some become violent, and others are recruited into serious crime. I want to be able to give them a clear message that: 中 Sweden's elected parliament is on their side A Commission of Accidents on Sis Separation will be set up The new Social Services Act will be much better than the inadequate investigation proposal. 中 LVU will be reformed for real All types of accommodation in a care facility are of high quality Follow-up at placement and after placement will take place on a continuous basis Children in need of LSS have access to vital rights legislation No children should grow up with violence and abuse, whether they live in their home environment or in a state institution. I do not know if you are all prepared to move from words to action, but the Liberals are ready. I will never give up until we really protect all children in Sweden. Mats Wiking said that the government wants to take a holistic approach, and that is a positive thing. However, Ceder submitted his investigation in 2015, and we have proposals here that we know will not be covered by the elements on which a proposal is now being presented. What has prevented the government from doing this in the past? I think it is unfair that Mats Wiking is here as a representative and that Lena Hallengren once again chooses not to be here, but I still wonder what has prevented the Social Democrats and the government from moving forward. I agree with the ten announcements and call for the approval of reservation 7.
i-fdca63af5e683923-175	Mr President, I would like to On the basis of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the KU18, I would like to take this opportunity to explain some of the issues and highlight the importance of cooperation between society and church communities. I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. Churches and religions play important roles in many people's everyday lives. The Church of Sweden alone includes 5.8 million members in Sweden. It is divided into 13 dioceses and has over 1,300 parishes within Sweden and 31 parishes abroad. There are about 3,400 churches. Each year, the state-subsidised communities also report how many members they have entered in their registers. I find the latest note at the Swedish Agency for Support for Faith Society – more than 900,000 members are listed for all other religions. When the concept of state church ended more than 20 years ago after several hundred years of history, the Riksdag decided on the Swedish Church Act. It is this law that also today regulates the relationship between church and state. The Swedish Church Act states that it is an open folk church. Congregations and pastorates all over the country make efforts in many places to be available to people in different situations whenever someone needs it in cooperation with municipalities, associations and organizations. This year, perhaps, special attention is paid to the Church of Sweden, when the church elections take place in September. The outcome of this choice will have an impact on how cooperation can develop in the future. While in the past it was perhaps just over 10 per cent of the voters who went to the ballot boxes, at the last church elections it was up to 20 per cent who met up. The turnout could of course have been higher, but the increased interest that was noticed at the last election needs to last even this time. Then the decisions taken in the council will have strong legitimacy and a good foundation in a social perspective as well. There is, as I see it, a great need for cooperation and collaboration between different bodies in society, where the Church of Sweden and the religions are resources to be reckoned with. Mr President, I would like to Essentially, this report, which deals with 15 proposals from the general period of exercise, concerns the position of the Church of Sweden and questions about the funeral system. In the report, the committee deals with the motion requests from the general exercise period 2019/ 20 and 2020/ 21. Seven of these requests are dealt with in simplified order as they concern the same or essentially the same issue as the Riksdag has dealt with earlier during the parliamentary term. They are about collaboration between the State and the Church of Sweden, the position of the Church of Sweden, the funeral fee, burial and distribution of the ashes of the deceased and a public map service that will show the location of graves. According to the Law of Faith, no one is obliged to belong to any religion. According to the same law, the Church of Sweden has the right to help the state with the determination, charging and accounting of fees. Other registered faiths may also be granted such assistance provided that they contribute to the maintenance and strengthening of the fundamental values on which society rests and that they are stable and have their own vitality. A motion calls for the funeral fee to be reformed to make it part of the public tax charge. It can be pointed out that reforms have taken place in this area in that, before the turn of the year 2015/ 16, each principal had his own funeral fee kit, which meant that each person had to be assigned to a special parish within the Church of Sweden in order for the correct fee to be charged. Five years ago, however, the link between the parish and the person disappeared when the population register was moved from the parishes to the municipalities. The funeral fee is now fixed on the basis of the actual funeral costs and is levied in the same way as the municipal tax, i.e. in proportion to the municipal taxable income. The Funeral Act specifies which services are included in the fee. These include, for example, a burial place or equivalent in a public burial ground for 25 years, burial including burial, re-filling and preparation of an open grave, and a place for funeral ceremony without religious symbols. In a number of exercises, a more flexible arrangement is proposed in the funeral regulation. A motion suggests that the funeral regulation should be amended to facilitate the sharing of ashes after a deceased person in accordance with the wishes of the deceased or related person. To have their ashes split or scattered in more than one burial site, as in various family graves, according to the exerciser should be possible without first obtaining permission from the county administrative board. In view of the fact that Swedish legislation allows the migration of dust and ash under certain conditions, the committee does not consider that there are sufficient grounds for taking any further initiative to amend the regulation. The committee therefore rejects the motions on this issue. A motion proposes the introduction of a national grave register. It is an issue that was dealt with by the committee in a report 2018/19. The motionaries also refer here to the fact that the Council discussed the issue in 2018. Even if the council on that occasion saw a benefit from such a register, it was found that it would not in any case be the church fee that would finance the development. The position of the Constitutional Committee, Mr President, has therefore not changed on the basis of previous decisions. Nor do we now see any reason to support a public burial service and reject the motion in question. Mr President, I would like to It can also be mentioned that I regularly meet representatives from the Swedish Church, the Jewish Central Council and the Islamic Social Council to discuss current issues that affect their role in society. The starting point for the discussions is increased knowledge and understanding and, of course, also to contribute to counteracting hatred and threats, so that everyone can feel safe in their religious practice. Of course, in recent times the pandemic and the situation it entails have been at the centre of attention. From the point of view of the fight against infectious diseases, the activities of both the Church of Sweden and the religions have faced a number of challenges. To carry out funerals digitally, where a large part of the visitors are allowed to follow the ceremony and farewell via link, is an order that some of us may have learned to handle. But it is a matter of preconditions, and it is a question that you may never have been faced with before. The communities have found ways of handling the data, but this has obviously meant a great change for all those who are or have been directly concerned. Continued cooperation between churches, communities and civil society will, as I see it, be of great importance for social security and community in the future as well.
i-fdca63af5e683923-189	Mr President, I would like to For several years, the insurance industry has charged high contributions for moving pension insurance capital. However, after years of work by the Swedish Democrats and the other opposition, we now have a proposal on the table of the Riksdag that will reduce the migration fees significantly and permanently for the country's small savers. This is a partial win. We are not quite in goal yet, because we are still waiting for the government to deliver on paragraph 3 of the 2019 Finance Committee's announcement, namely that all insurances should be subject to the same right to move if no decisive reasons are against. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has now concluded that no such barriers exist. Thus, the government has the green light to put such a bill on Parliament's table. One can easily be led to believe that it is now petted and clear, but let me remind you of the process that has been carried out so far. This whole debate was initiated by the Swedish Competition Authority in a report from 2016, which drew attention to the problems of lock-in and excessive fees in the insurance market. The Swedish Democrats exercised on this in 2017. We proposed reasonable removal fees and, in addition, a limitation of the right to charge them on time. It took two years, until spring 2019, until the government addressed the issue politically and put forward a proposal in the Riksdag. The proposal was a step in the right direction but nevertheless completely inadequate. Among other things, it proposed a model in which insurance companies would continue to be entitled to charge a fee for unincorporated acquisition costs. Examples of acquisition costs include commission to insurance intermediaries and compensation to the insurance company's own sales force. The removal fees would therefore remain at the same high levels if the government had its way. Initially, the government, through the Minister for Financial Markets, also wanted the right to levy fees to be limited to five years. However, the proposal instead proposed ten years, contrary to the Competition Authority's own recommendation and contrary to its own original proposal. At this stage, the government also did not want the right to move to everyone. Therefore, the Finance Committee addressed a notice to the Government on 13 November 2019, which meant that the Government would return to the Riksdag promptly with a legislative proposal which severely limited the removal fees, introduced a fee cap, covered insurance policies signed before 1 July 2007 and introduced a free amount. Then came the pandemic, and last autumn the government made a proposal to deliver on three out of four points in the committee's announcement. Here we are now, five years after the Competition Authority sounded the alarm, debating the same thing as we did then, even if we are now approaching the finish line. However, there are possible obstacles along the way, such as announcements. As is well known, they are based on constitutional practice, which in pure Swedish means that the government is not legally bound to satisfy Parliament's announcements. In the light of red-green governments' statements on announcements in terms of will expressions, in the light of the government's documented ambivalence on the issue of the right to move and given that nothing had happened without an active opposition, I share the concerns of 500 000 Swedish pension savers about, when and how the government intends to honour its word and deliver a free right to move, not only to some but to all Swedes. That is why I am calling for approval of the Swedish-democratic and liberal reservation here today.
i-fdca63af5e683923-197	Mr President, I would like to At the outset, I am also in favour of the reservation on the matter. Mr President, I would like to Liberals believe in each person's own responsibility. We all have a responsibility for our private economic future and for the future and security of our children and grandchildren. We should also feel secure as we approach retirement. Hardworking people should be able to be sure that the economy is safe and secure even after retirement. In May 2019, the Government presented the bill A more effective right to move insurance savings. It failed to remove the obstacles faced by many pension savers when they want to move their pension money. Therefore, the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the Government. We can now note that the Government's proposal, which is now on the table of the Riksdag, and we are debating, rests on the objective of whether insurance policies signed before 1 July 2007 should be covered by the corresponding right to move as insurance policies signed accordingly. On this issue, there are grounds for taking into account a number of very important issues in principle. At the same time, it must not obscure the view of the Parliament's stated objective. A change is also necessary in this part if small savers are to take power seriously over their own savings capital. Sweden needs more and not fewer dedicated savers. Unless Parliament acts again, an important reform for increased competition, consumer protection and the empowerment of the individual is now in danger of getting caught up in the FI Minister's desk drawer again. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals are eager to give the Swedish people more power over their money, over their pension. It is therefore important that there is a right to move pension money. It is about consumer power, about power over its own future. Administrative obstacles, bureaucracy and political infinity must not stand in the way of this.
i-fdca63af5e683923-202	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with the fees that customers pay in the event of buy-back and transfer of savings in fund and custody insurance. The changes that are now being made to the law are, in short, to reduce the fees. There are several reasons for this, and there is a background. In the past, the system worked so that a saving in an insurance policy, such as pension insurance, was an agreement between the customer and the insurance company where the company made a calculation of costs and returns and guaranteed customers a certain refund. The customer's money was in turn locked up with the insurance company. Over time, this changed and customers agreed that newly signed insurances could be moved. From July 2007, the move became an opportunity in all newly signed insurance policies. This gave the consumer more opportunity to influence their own savings and investments. However, this was followed by a debate about the companies charging excessive charges in the event of a move in order to counteract the move itself, which was found unfair. Last parliamentary year came a bill with the aim of further strengthening the position of consumers. It was proposed to limit the fees that a company may charge in connection with a move. The Swedish Parliament then decided that fees may be charged in future only for the companies' administrative costs and outstanding acquisition costs, which meant a reduction in the fees. An important principle in this is that the strengthening of the consumer's position should apply to all consumers. Those who want to move their savings should be able to do so in a reasonable way. At the same time, care is taken to ensure that those who are not as active savers are not financially affected either. That principle is as important now as it was then. Mr President, I would like to With the proposal we are now debating, the Government and Parliament are taking the matter one step further. There is reason to distinguish between traditional insurance and mutual fund insurance. In a fund insurance policy, the sole responsibility lies with the insured, with the customer, with both opportunities for higher returns and risks of decline. Therefore, it is also reasonable to further limit the fees charged for the removal and repurchase of these fund and depository insurances. This is now being done. With this proposal, the fee for the repurchase and transfer of fund and custody insurance may only cover administrative management and shall not exceed 0,0127 base amounts. This means lowering the fees and giving consumers even better opportunities to influence their own savings and investments. In addition, all consumers are protected. One question in this context is whether the reduced contributions should also cover insurance policies signed before 1 July 2007. It is relevant and important to look at, and the government has therefore chosen to deal with this issue separately. There may be good reasons for their inclusion. At the same time, it may be urgent to dive deeper into what it can mean to change conditions retroactively. We therefore look forward to the government returning to Parliament in this regard. In so doing, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-fdca63af5e683923-214	Mr President, I would like to It is a joyous day for us who have been working on these issues for a long time. Today, we are taking further steps to strengthen the consumer's empowerment over his own future economy and to remove obstacles that pension savers face. That you as a consumer should control what is yours is, of course, a fundamental principle that we must uphold. At the same time, a simplified right to move leads to consumers being able to vote more easily with their feet and, in the long run, to strengthen competition among companies, which everyone recognises is a good thing. As a trustee, I want you to know that if I'm not satisfied as a customer, I can move my savings to another company. In addition to these two underlying principles, it is a problem that some savers sit with poor investments with low returns. Then it is most reasonable for them to be able to move them at a lower cost, which we are making possible today. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the step we are now taking with the Government proposal, Finansinspektionen has a mission to map further expansions. The Center Party considers it reasonable to proceed cautiously and therefore calls for approval of the bill. Further measures may be needed to strengthen consumer power and the right to move insurance savers. However, several perspectives need to be weighed against each other. There are many savers who want to be active managers and be able to move their savings. But there are also many who are not active and who do not want to move their savings. Of course, both groups must be kept in mind in the event of future changes to the right to move. Finansinspektionen states in its mission that, in the event of an amendment to the law on extended right to move, there is a risk of a negative impact on policyholders to become higher fees. That's why the Center Party thinks it makes sense to take it step by step and hurry slowly. I support the committee's proposal.
i-fdca63af5e683923-221	Mr President, I would like to At last, contributions are being reduced and, at last, savings are being taken into account when it comes to fund and custody transfers, not least pension savings. The journey here has been long, and the Christian Democrats have struggled to reach a low ceiling for removal fees and a free amount for those who have small savings coins and so far have seen them eaten up by high fees without the opportunity to move their capital to a trustee who offers lower fees. This is good for the savers. It's a good thing it's in place, but it's taken a long time. There is reason for the government to reflect on the fact that when it came forward with its proposal two years ago, it went too far in the affairs of pension giants and took too little account of the needs of savers. Therefore, it was a parliament that was very dissatisfied with the product and that required substantial changes, such as a substantial reduction in removal fees and the introduction of a fee cap and a free amount. Now we get this in place, and that's very good. However, there is more to be done. There was a fourth point in the demand that the Riksdag addressed to the Government, and that was that insurance before 2007 should also be covered unless decisive reasons contradict it. It is more complicated when it comes to these insurance policies because retroactive legislation can be more complex. Therefore, Finansinspektionen has carried out an analysis and concluded that there are no decisive reasons against this. I look forward to the Government now urgently preparing proposals in accordance with the requirements of the Committee on Finance to include insurance policies signed before 1 July 2007. But we're not happy there either. We must continue to simplify and increase savers' opportunities to get the best return on their capital and be able to choose freely from insurance managers, and make it easier to collect small provisions of occupational pensions that are available to different managers so that they can have a better overview and thus make better and more active decisions about their own savings, for a safer and better old age eventually. Today, we are taking important steps by putting the bill, which meets three of the four announcements of the Committee on Finance, into place. It is a good day for all savers who are covered by the new migration opportunities with significantly lower fees. And so we must continue to lie on the government and demand more with regard to the funds that were signed before 1 July 2007. Then we continue to work towards simpler and more favourable rules for savers.
i-fdca63af5e683923-228	Mr President, I would like to That everyone who works for a pension should be sure that the money is managed wisely is an extremely important issue in society. It is a fundamental part of how we have agreed to secure each other throughout our lives. Part of the system that we have in place is that it should be possible to move, be active and be able to collect pensions that have ended up in different parts, which can make it easier to manage. In order for this to be possible in reality, the fees charged in the event of a move must be objective and limited. It is clear that there is a need to regulate the way charges are designed. This should be about the administrative cost that exists. That is what we are clarifying and establishing today with the support of the Government proposal. It's an important thing. However, I would like to add a perspective to the debate that I see as lacking, and that is the protection of all consumers. It is just as important to safeguard those who want to move and their ability to do so as it is to protect those who do not want to move – that their pension money is well managed and that there is no transfer of costs between these two groups. Since different types of insurance have different basic arrangements, this is a delicate task, and therefore, as has been said here in the speaker's chair, there is reason to proceed carefully and think through each step so that you land right for different groups. One reason to keep track of the different groups is that there is a clear social aspect. Not all people are active and have the ability, time and opportunity to be active pension savers, but there are those who are not. It is very much about the ability to assimilate the kind of information that is needed, and there is a clear class aspect here that I think is important to have with you. In the Green Party, we carry it with us all the time when we look at this issue and when we act. Again, there is reason for us to be careful in every step we take. This step is now well worked out, and we are sure that the rules do not create the kind of bias that I wish to warn against. I refer to them because the debate places a great deal of emphasis on the group that wants and can move, and I think there is reason to highlight the other group, which does not want to or does not have the ability to understand the decision that it means moving. There is another issue of retroactivity on which the Committee on Finance agrees needs to be worked through. If it is possible to make retroactive legislation, it should be done, but retroactive legislation should always be handled with care. It is a delicate question, and different legal principles are being set against each other. The government prepares this in a special order to be extra careful in that part. I think that is a very wise order to work in. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-fdca63af5e683923-235	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that today the empowerment of individual savers is increasing. That is good, and there are many who have been up in the speaker's chair talking about this very thing. Let me tell you why we're here today. It was the Moderates who, together with the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, made proposals to increase the autonomy of the individual savers, and the Swedish Democrats also had a similar motion. Power moves from the big fund companies down to the small saver, who deposits hard-earned money – what they have worked together during their lives. In the past, as an individual, they have been locked up in the large company that they have started to deposit their money with, and there you get stuck, many times with very high fees. We are now going to remove this, and that is a good thing. But it was not the government that pushed this development, but it was the other parties that I have just listed: the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, but also the Swedish Democrats. It is good that we are getting this in place today. Three of the four points put forward by us from the four bourgeois parties are today met by the government through the presentation of the proposal. As far as the fourth point is concerned, some parties have opted for a special follow-up motion, but I would like to make it clear that the government is saying that it intends to come back with retroactive legislation, that is, insurance policies that are signed before 1 July 2007. The Moderates see no reason to doubt the government in that it intends to do exactly what it says to the Riksdag that it intends to do. We also understand that retroactive legislation is becoming more difficult because we are changing agreements that have already been concluded. However, as several speakers have said, state authorities have looked at this and it should be perfectly possible to achieve it. We look forward with great interest to the government returning to Parliament with the last piece of the puzzle to increase the individual saver's power over the money that you have earned yourself when you have worked and that you save for other purposes. With this, we in the Moderates are in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-fdca63af5e683923-239	Mr President, I would like to As a result of the new EU regulation on sustainability-related information, the government has come up with a proposal which is proposed to enter into force on 10 March. In this proposal, the Government announces that the largest player, the Seventh AP Fund, will not report according to the new EU law, while the Government makes use of the possibility of an exemption to burden the smallest companies with new costs and more administration. The Swedish Democrats do not share this view and we therefore call for our reservations to be accepted. The administrative burden on small entrepreneurs is something that is often debated in this House. Not least, the issue has been addressed extensively during the ongoing pandemic. All parties claim to be in favour of reducing the regulatory burden on small businesses. Today, however, the Government's proposal will lead to a decision to increase the regulatory burden on the smallest companies once again. The new EU Regulation on the disclosure of sustainability-related information does not apply to insurance intermediaries and investment firms with fewer than three employees. It is therefore very small companies that are exempt from accounting obligations. These companies are often in a growth phase, and their focus should be on the core task, i.e. to ensure that the capital invested by pension savers provides the best return possible. Every accounting requirement is disproportionately high for small businesses, and it is pension savers who risk paying through reduced returns when fees and administrative costs increase. We believe that it is reasonable for the EU to exempt companies with fewer than three employees. The government's demand for these companies to be subject to the law can, in the worst case, be expensive for pension savers. Since joining the EU, the regulatory burden on companies has increased massively. The fact that the government is now making use of an exception and going extra far demonstrates a poor understanding of the everyday lives and activities of the smallest companies. The Government requires all companies wishing to enter into agreements with the Pension Authority to provide sustainability-related information. Arguments put forward by the government to include these companies are that it provides better consumer protection. To some extent, information to customers is reduced if these companies do not have to disclose all information. But their involvement in the core business will hopefully be reflected in pension savers' wallets. Another argument put forward by the government is that the accounting will raise the company's reputation and thus attract more investors seeking sustainable pension investments. If this is true, it would be enough for it to be voluntary to disclose the information. Most companies are interested in having a good reputation. Mr President, I would like to It would have been appropriate if the government had carried out a proper impact assessment before including small companies. Today, no one knows what the consequences of the law will be for companies. We also do not know whether the competitiveness of Swedish companies is falling compared to that of other EU countries. We do not know which other Member States will require the same accounting as the government does. Are companies in Sweden alone affected by these increased accounting requirements? The government's accounting of the consequences is thin and seems to consist mostly of guesses. The bottom line is that the Government considers that the increased costs and administration that arise are not considered disproportionate for the small companies concerned. The government could have chosen a different path. One way to address concerns about lower consumer protection is to clearly inform that funds and insurance brokers with fewer than three employees do not have to disclose sustainability-related information in accordance with EU law. Such disclosure means that pension savers can choose for themselves whether to invest in funds that do not have to disclose sustainability-related information, or whether they prefer to invest in funds that provide this information. The Swedish Democrats believe that we should follow the EU's general rule of exempting companies with fewer than three employees from the requirement to disclose sustainability-related information. Mr President, I would like to The idea behind the EU directive is to make it easier for consumers to compare pension placements. This is precisely the argument put forward by the government that even the smallest companies should be required to provide sustainability-related information. It is therefore surprising that the Government does not believe that the Seventh AP Fund should report in the same way as the new directive advocates. The Fund provides information on sustainability in and of itself. However, for pension savers to be able to compare the Seventh AP Fund based on sustainability criteria with other funds, they need to be able to compare exactly the same data. What the government is now proposing is that pension savers compare apples with pears. Both are fruits, but they are different in taste and appearance. It is particularly worrying that the Government does not believe that the Seventh AP Fund needs to account in the same way as the other funds. Precisely because the Seventh AP Fund manages the premium pension for a majority of Swedish pension savers, it is obvious that the fund should be able to be clearly compared with other funds. Why separate regulation of the Seventh AP Fund would be beneficial is not reflected in the Government proposal or in the memorandum proposing changes to the investment rules regarding the Seventh AP Fund. The Government refers to the ongoing review of the 7th AP Fund's investment rules as a reason for choosing not to comply with EU directives. On the contrary, the current review should make it easier for the Seventh AP Fund to implement the new directives. Therefore, we hope that, even if our reservation falls today, the government will ensure for the benefit of pension savers that the Seventh AP Fund will in future report sustainability-related information according to the new EU directive. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention that two important consultative bodies, the Swedish Investment Fund Association and the Pensions Authority, criticise the government's choice to exempt the Seventh AP Fund from accounting under the new EU directive. Both bodies indicate precisely the ability of pension savers to compare and make informed choices as a reason why the Seventh AP Fund should also report according to the new EU directive.
i-fdca63af5e683923-253	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes they say it was better before. When it comes to music, for example, it is easy to agree. But when it comes to sustainability accounting, we can see that we have, after all, come a long way compared to when I myself pushed the issue of such increased accounting around the turn of the millennium. At the time, there was no broad consensus at all on this today. It may be worth recalling such things. There are, in fact, areas where developments are moving in the right direction and where we take greater responsibility, where people have increased opportunities to make informed choices and where pension companies and other companies also take greater responsibility as social actors. It is very important and worth noting, Mr President. According to this bill, there will now be better opportunities for savers to compare the impact of different options on the surrounding society, on our planet, on other people's life situations and on creating a better society tomorrow. This is good. It is good that there will also be common rules for Europe with the neutrality of competition and the opportunities that it also offers. However, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. I find it odd that the major player, the Seventh AP Fund, should not be subject to the same accounting rules and requirements. It is particularly remarkable when the government comes forward with demands for the smallest managers to be included in this framework. I may think it is reasonable in the light of the fact that the consumer should be able to compare all investment options regardless of how many people happen to work at the company in question. But when you do and not at the same time include the Seventh AP Fund – this giant when it comes to managing premium pension, especially for those who have not themselves chosen trustees – it becomes strange. It currently manages a large part of the total pension capital. A heavy burden thus falls on the Fund to ensure responsible and sustainable management. Then it is also central that the sustainability report is easy to understand and easy to compare with other funds. This is particularly true when those who allow AP7 to manage their premium pension to a lesser extent than others get involved in, compare and possibly change managers. It will be particularly unfortunate if the Seventh AP Fund has other principles for accounting for sustainability. I am surprised that the government does not say more clearly that it should be the same. There shall be the same opportunity for savers to compare the Seventh AP Fund's Sustainability Report. Therefore, it would be important for the House to vote in favour of reservation 2 of the report so that it becomes clear that the same criteria for sustainability reporting should apply to all. It is in order to make it easier for consumers to do the right thing and to choose where they see that there is a positive return not only on their own capital but also on the surrounding society.
i-fdca63af5e683923-262	Madam President, I would like The report now under debate concerns provisions on sustainability-related disclosures for securities on financial markets. The basis of the proposal is that the previous Swedish rules for this are now to be replaced by rules at EU level. Previously, insurance intermediaries or investment firms must, in accordance with Swedish rules, account for how the securities they invest in live up to different aspects of sustainability, and this must also be accounted for in certain specific ways. The report covers sustainability aspects such as the environment, social conditions, human resources, respect for human rights and anti-corruption. The information on this must be available on the company's website and must be shown in the Foundation's information brochure and annual report. The fact that this is presented clearly and correctly is an important consumer information so that consumers can make informed choices, and it is also important for healthy competition in the securities market. The meaning of the proposal that we are now considering is that those rules cease to exist and are replaced by new corresponding EU rules. Thus, insurance intermediaries and investment firms will continue to report as they have done in the past, but now according to EU rules. We welcome that. It is valuable to create clear and good rules for the financial markets in the EU. Madam President, I would like Part of the proposal concerns whether companies with fewer than three employees should also be included in the proposal. The government, as well as a majority in the Committee on Finance, believe that they should. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, there are very few players involved, possibly only a handful. Secondly, it is important that all players are subject to the same rules and accountability for their securities products in order to create fair rules and not distort competition. This applies to both Swedish and foreign players on the market. Thirdly, it is important for consumer reasons. Those who choose between different securities should be able to find out how the different investments relate to sustainability, and it should not be determined by the number of employees of the company in question. From a consumer point of view, it is important that all stakeholders are subject to the same rules. Another part of the proposal concerns the conditions for the Seventh AP Fund. Today, the Seventh AP Fund is covered by the Swedish legislation described earlier. On the other hand, the Seventh AP Fund will not be covered by the new EU regulation when the Seventh AP Fund is not considered a financial market participant or advisor. The consequence is that the Swedish law that the Seventh AP Fund's sustainability report today relates to disappears, but without the new EU law covering up. This, of course, is something that needs to be resolved. It is important that the Seventh AP Fund continues to report sustainability information. The government is also now working on a legislative change for the AP funds' management. This includes, among other things, reviewing how the Seventh AP Fund will provide sustainability information. In between, in the gap between the repeal of the old law and before a new law is in place, the proposal is that the Seventh AP Fund should continue to provide information about sustainability as it does today, i.e. according to the current Swedish law. It corresponds, as has been mentioned, to the new EU rules. That's good. That's good. That's good. We look forward to the government returning to Parliament with a new proposal regarding the 7th AP Fund's future sustainability report. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-fdca63af5e683923-274	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has long been passionate about a sustainable society. We consider ourselves to be the first environmental party to have been followed by the Swedish Parliament. That is why this is an issue that concerns us. Working with sustainability issues is a long-term, ongoing work where reporting is an important tool. The new sustainability-related disclosure requirements will support and develop the work of businesses and provide citizens, investors and stakeholders with a better opportunity to follow up the work of businesses. In this way, more people can make informed decisions about which companies they want to invest in. That's very good, and that's the very purpose. Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has made the world's investors even more aware of major global risks that can dramatically change the conditions quite quickly for companies and their values. The pandemic itself is multifaceted. Risks have been identified for both environmental, social and corporate governance aspects, i.e. the sustainability spectrum of the entire investor. The trend that more and more companies are clearly working on their sustainability profile and that more and more people want to invest in sustainable companies obliges us as politicians to create standards that make it easier with a corporate audit, what is called due diligence. Madam President, I would like The lack of comparable and reliable data and key ratios is one of the main problems of sustainable investment. This applies, of course, to the environment but perhaps even more to how social sustainability should be reported. There's the bigger flaw. We need to improve this step by step for customers and consumers. That is one step we are taking today. The total amount of what is called ESG investments – the abbreviation stands for environmental, social and governance – has grown very much in recent years. I read a report last autumn that indicated that $3,000 billion is now being managed according to ESG criteria. That is about 4% of total global management capital. The proportion of Swedes who claim to have sustainable savings has doubled since the Paris Agreement in 2015. Nearly nine out of ten Swedes reply that it is important or very important that the money saved for their occupational pension is invested in a sustainable way. Against this background, we must help to ensure that reporting is rigorous and equal for all as far as possible. That is why we think it is reasonable that this should also apply to small businesses. Our main focus in this discussion is the consumer perspective. We say that consumers should have equal information regardless of which company they hire, large or small. That is why we choose to support the current proposal. One basis is to remove what is about information asymmetry, that is to say different tasks, and we think that the proposal on the table has a reasonable balance. In so doing, I support the proposal by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
i-fdca63af5e683923-283	Madam President, I would like It is a great thing to be involved in this time when the financial market discovers sustainability issues. They were not the first on the track, if you say so, but the interest in questions about sustainability, climate and what role the financial market and its actors in the broad sense play in the work of transforming society into a fossil-free economy is now great. Many people work hard to find ways to make this work. But when the ladder is a bit staggering and when you get in a little late on the track it gets quite sprawling. It is not easy to be a consumer and find the right one. A lot of savers want to save sustainably. You care what your own money does when it's at the bank, in pension funds or in other forms of savings. But it's hard to compare. It's hard to find the right place. When the Swedish organisation Fair Finance Guide examines what lies behind marketing about sustainability, it sees quite large differences. A great deal that many in general do not see as sustainable, such as fossil investment, can now hide behind a fund that markets itself as sustainable. We need to deal with this. As so often in the area of sustainability, we were early in Sweden. Sweden is a global pioneer in the process of greening the financial market. We were also very early in controlling the pension funds over which the government has an influence. It is very good that the European Union is now involved in the sort of rules that we started to have in Sweden a few years ago, so that we have a common market for this. I think it is extremely important that we introduce this legislation so that it covers the entire market, so that all consumers, regardless of which company they turn to, receive the same information in terms of sustainability and so that we have total transparency. Some work now remains to be done on how to implement this, for example for the Seventh AP Fund. However, it must not in any way be interpreted as meaning that the governance of the Seventh AP Fund is unclear or that they do not work actively. On the contrary, they have become a pioneer. The 7th AP Fund announced in December that the blacklist companies that continue to invest in coal – good and proactive! The Seventh AP Fund also has a very proactive work in which they as owners question the anti-climate lobbying of companies, i.e. when companies want to hinder climate legislation, and challenge companies. It is also a very good job. How to work with sustainability and which path is right – if you're going to withdraw your money or if you're going to keep your money and be an active owner – debates researchers. It is not obvious which is the most proactive. I'm glad to see that there are different actors who try different paths. I am also pleased to see that there are Swedish uppstickers, companies that are extremely innovative and are very far ahead and provide consumers with attractive offers with genuinely thorough sustainability. It's a good thing. We need to get a handle on this. There needs to be comparability. That is what the decision we are making today is about. It will be easier for consumers to compare what one company says about sustainability with what another says. That is a good thing, and I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-fdca63af5e683923-291	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that it is good that more and more customers are asking how to make it easier for your money to work green, how to invest in things that benefit the climate and the environment and how to avoid what harms the environment. It is good that this is demanded by the customers. It is therefore good that we should now implement this EU regulation in Swedish law. This comes from the European Union. Sweden has been a driving force within the European Union for a very long time on this type of issue, and that is a good thing. Now customers will find it easier to choose between different investments in the future. All this is good. However, we Moderates have a follow-up motion, Madam President. It is not that we have less ambition in terms of the environment and climate, but that Sweden is now over-implementing the EU regulation on which this is based. This means that even very small companies, i.e. companies with fewer than three employees, will be subject to exactly the same rules as the large ones. That is something you can enjoy very much, Madam President. What is good when we do things at European level is that it has a good effect. We get systematics, we get comparability and we get large-scale when the world's largest economy does and thinks the same. What becomes the problem for small Swedish companies, if you do not do as the Moderates suggest, is that we place much higher demands on them. They will be surrounded by much more bureaucracy than their competitors in Europe. We do not yet know exactly what that will mean. In our opinion, the government should have looked at this more. What is the consequence? Will it be that all the little ones disappear, flag out and operate in other countries? We have no idea. Is it so that we control customers based on this when there is more bureaucracy that surrounds the small ones even in Sweden? We would have liked that to be more highlighted in this. Basically, what is now happening is good. It's good for consumers. It will be easier for consumers to make good choices. However, it is a pity that Sweden is over-implementing before investigating what the consequences would be. I call for approval of the Moderates' follow-up motion.
i-fdca63af5e683923-298	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate or perhaps rather discuss this report. There are no reservations or counter-proposals. Swedish mining industry and mineral industry are of great importance to Sweden as a nation, from a regional and local perspective, but also beyond Sweden's borders. It is about the supply of raw materials, jobs, welfare and the development of new technologies, and not least the important green transition. Due to the spread of the now known virus that causes covid-19, Sweden and the surrounding world are in a very difficult situation. Then the parliament but also the government must plan for extraordinary measures. As early as spring 2020, Svemin, the trade association for mines, minerals and metal producers in Sweden, submitted a request to the government for extended research permits to counteract serious consequences for exploration companies and the mining industry as a result of the spread of infection. At the time, the government proposed an extension of the period of validity of research permits valid on 1 July 2020 and previously extended when there were particular reasons for the extension. The extended period of validity is for a further year from the date on which the period of validity would otherwise have expired. The change entered into force on 1 July 2020. Madam President, I would like Sweden and the rest of the world are still in a very serious situation due to the pandemic. That is why, today, we have a further proposal on the extension of the permit to examine. The validity period is proposed to be extended by one year also for authorisations valid on 1 March 2021 which have previously been extended by the fact that there have been specific reasons for extension. The provisions shall not apply to exploration permits relating to oil or gaseous hydrocarbons or based on an application for coal where coal is explicitly indicated in the permit. That exception is also included as a point in the so-called January agreement. The proposal provides for the period of validity to be extended by one year for research permits valid on 1 July 2020 and still valid on 1 March 2021, which have not been extended before. In the background is an announcement. The focus on this has been explicitly welcomed by the Minister for Economic Affairs. The government is also doing important work to find solutions to reduce the effects of the continuing pandemic. I note that the Committee on Economic Affairs welcomes the Government's proposal. There are no reservations in the report either. The committee therefore endorses the Government's proposal. Like the committee, I would like to emphasise that we have not reached the end of the pandemic. That is why we need to follow developments carefully in the future and see if further steps need to be taken to avoid the negative consequences of the pandemic. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report.
i-fdca63af5e683923-309	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating permits to investigate. This is an issue on which we agree in the Committee on Industry. It is important that the research permits are extended as the industry has been on shaky ground since the pandemic in Sweden began. The mining industry in Sweden has a long history and has done Sweden good in many different ways. But one prerequisite for the mining industry is the work of exploration companies. During the pandemic, exploration companies have been vulnerable as the companies are often small and specialized in exploration. Unlike mining companies, they do not have their own stable revenues that come directly from mining, but are entirely dependent on external capital. As is well known, the international situation has been unstable over the past year. Nor is it easy for exploration companies to just pause their business. The Mineral Act is designed in such a way that permits can be revoked if the company does not actively drill, test or analyze. About one research permit per thousand leads to the opening of a mine. It is therefore extremely important that exploration activities do not stop during the pandemic. I mentioned at the outset that the committee supports the proposal. However, I would like to make it clear that we must follow developments very closely. We're not out of the pandemic yet. This means that there may be a need to re-examine the needs and possibly extend the authorisations granted after 1 July 2020. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Sweden's mining industry has had and will continue to have great significance for Sweden as a country. It has created jobs and prosperity and is today a large part of the transformation that Sweden and the world have to make to cope with the climate crisis; c worry is unfortunately not the only crisis that we are facing today. Techniques that are crucial to the conversion require metals. Wind power, solar cells, electric cars, batteries, charging infrastructure and much more require all safe access to metals. This means in the next stage that there is a need for a strong mining industry that meets that particular demand. In addition, it is positive that the minerals are extracted on Swedish soil to ensure that they are done in an environmentally positive way and under the right working conditions. I and the Moderates do not think it is very responsible that Sweden, which is one of the world's most developed countries with perhaps the world's most stringent environmental testing, looks at when earth metals are broken in countries that exploit their population, systematically abuse and use child labour. It is therefore much better that they are broken here. The Swedish mining industry is needed worldwide because the climate crisis, like a virus, does not recognise any national borders. We should embrace the mining industry, not oppose it. Madam President, I would like Recycled materials play an important role in the transition. But the truth remains: recycled material will not be able to replace the mining and processing of virgin material in the near future. There are not yet enough old materials in slag products and the like to feed the technology development needed for the conversion. Sweden is the EU's leading mining and mineral nation – at least it has sounded for a long time. It has also been a clear political objective to maintain this position and to develop the industry that has helped to build Sweden. But now we see signs that Sweden is falling behind in the measurements. The Canadian think tank Fraser Institute ranks both Ireland and Finland higher than Sweden. We also see that the number of permits granted is on the decline. There's no reason to understate that mines affect the local environment, because they do. But you have to be able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time and note that these minerals are needed if we intend to cope with the climate crisis. We know that the minerals are in Sweden's bedrock, and we know that they are needed. But at the same time, I cannot let go of the feeling that you are doing everything you can to counteract the mining industry. Infinitely long processing times and complicated permit processes kill projects that play an extremely important role in the transition. Kallak and Laver are two of many examples of this slowness. Three years have passed without the Kallak mine receiving any sign that a permit would be in progress. It is claimed that the government will now speed up the process, but we do not yet know how the government intends to proceed with permission for the mines in Kallak and Laver. In addition, applicants have been refused when they requested a meeting with the Ministry of Industry. The Parliament's Constitutional Committee recently presented its annual review of the Government. Here, among other things, the government's slow handling of the condition is criticised for setting up the mine in Kallak. At the risk of repeating myself, I can say that the criticism is that the Minister for Economic Affairs has not taken any visible action on the matter for three years. Also leading representatives in the industry have criticized the government's handling of both Kallak and Laver, whose processing times were unwarrantedly long. However, it is not only the companies that are being squeezed here, but also the inhabitants of the municipality. Both those who are in favour and those who are against the mines are in limbo. People don't know what's going on. This cannot be a process of processing that the government is proud of. Nevertheless, the Minister of Economic Affairs repeatedly claims that Sweden is and will remain the EU's leading mining nation. How? I wonder. With processing times like these, investments will soon begin to flee Sweden to other countries. We have already begun to see the consequences of the government's slowness. Boliden is thinking of leaving Sweden. It's serious. The Laver mine could create thousands of jobs and have a major impact on climate change. Responsibility extends beyond Sweden's borders. Sometimes you have to force yourself to raise your eyes and look to the whole, even if it can get a little uncomfortable. The processing times and permit processes have been particularly provocative to many. It is time for the government to move from words to actions before it is too late.
i-fdca63af5e683923-328	Frau President! 2020 was a year like nothing else. The Coronapendem swept over the world, and all of us have been affected by this in one way or another. Now we write 2021, the year when we hopefully will finally be able to go back to some kind of normal mode, but we are not there yet. This is one of the reasons for the report we are discussing today. Last June, the issue of extended permits of inquiry was debated here in this House. It was a debate that I myself would have participated in if it had not been for the coronapndemin. That's not what happened. Instead, my colleague Tobias Andersson, who was here in Stockholm, had to take the debate in my place. We didn't cancel – we reschedule. It is just one in a series of examples of how society has had to adapt as a result of the pandemic. I mean – and I think the rest of this House agrees – that the policy has been influenced to some extent by the pandemic but not so extensive in comparison with the harsh reality that some industries are now in. Some of these have been able to change, while others, such as the travel industry, are in deep crisis. In fact, for some industries the conditions have been relatively reasonable, but the legislation has been designed in a way that has not enabled them to switch to make it through the pandemic. One industry that was forced into the bridge and urgently needed to get a new regulatory framework in place to survive the Corona crisis was the exploration companies. That is why, Madam President, the Parliament decided in June 2020 on amendments to the Minerals Act in order to facilitate the extension of existing research permits. The decision was necessary and good. The situation was acute, and the government was under pressure to come up with a long list of proposals for measures to save Swedish business. However, in the bill we took a position on at the time there were limitations which we in the opposition drew attention to. On that occasion, a notice was sent to the government. The result of the announcement is what we have on the table today. The government has delivered what was requested. In addition, the committee has agreed on the wording of the report which takes into account the fact that the pandemic is still ongoing and that further extensions of existing investigation permits may be needed. Madam President, I would like I have said this before: the importance of the mining industry for Sweden's prosperity cannot be stressed enough. We have been breaking and refining metals since pre-Christian times, and today the mining industry is a cornerstone of our export-dependent industry. The value chains created by mining mineralisations, refining ore and producing end products have laid the foundation for our position as an export nation. The mining industry thus contributes in several stages to both creating jobs and generating wealth. But the ore is not only there as by a miracle if you put the shovel on the hill at random. In order to find it, and in the long term perhaps be able to establish a mine, it is necessary that someone has prospected, that is, actively searching for deposits and made careful investigations of the bedrock, and found breakable mineralizations. And since no ore body in the world is inexhaustible, it is no exaggeration to claim that without exploration the mining industry ceases and thus also the manufacturing industry in the long term. What is interesting in this context is that exploration itself is not profit-making but rather speculative. Exploration can be described as a costly, long-term and time-consuming search for something that hopefully in the long term – in some decade or so – if everything wants to well generate a profit. This makes exploration companies completely dependent on venture capital and investors. With this, they are also extremely sensitive to cyclical fluctuations. As the Swedish mineral law is designed so that a company that holds a research permit but does not drill, take samples and analyse can have its permit revoked, it is easy to understand what could have been the result of investors and venture capital companies pulling the emergency brake in response to the corona outbreak. Since exploration companies are fundamentally unable to pause ongoing activities, it is good that we in Parliament have made possible an extension of the permits for those licence holders who, due to the pandemic, have acceptable reasons for the fact that investigation work has not been carried out. It is wise, and I am delighted that there is such a clear majority in parliament for this position. Madam President, I would like Taking into account the fact that more and more people on earth are breaking out of poverty and raising their standard of living as something positive, it is also necessary to accept their demand for goods, which often contain metals. For whom are we to deny others things that we in our part of the world have taken for granted for generations? If technological achievements are acknowledged and so-called green technology applauds, it is also necessary to welcome the mining of so-called innovation-critical minerals. Who are we to demand that they be broken by child workers in Congo or under slave-like conditions in dictatorships? If you believe in poverty reduction, in new technologies and in human rights, you believe in our mining industry. If you believe in a industry that generates jobs, tax revenues and welfare in Sweden, you believe in Swedish mining industry. It should be a brilliant future, but only if we make wise and forward-looking decisions from a political point of view. Therefore, Madam President, I believe that this report is a step in the right direction at a difficult time. I am pleased that the committee is so united on this particular issue. Having said that, I am in favour of the report NU9 State of inquiry, as a whole.
i-fdca63af5e683923-342	Madam President, I would like The mining and mineral industry is a very important basic industry in Sweden. It is a fact for centuries, and we see that the industry will continue to be a necessary piece of the puzzle when we make the next technological leap to digitize and electrify our society. In order for this to be possible, we will need to look for raw materials that will make it possible to produce batteries in sufficient quantity. We therefore want not only to protect but also to further develop Swedish mining and mineral industries. Unfortunately, we see time and again that the government is choice-handed in its handling of this basic industry. An example of this is the recent news: that the government has rejected Boliden's appeal regarding the mining establishment Laver in Älvsbyn. This after putting a wet blanket over the whole process for four years. Boliden's Communications Director has said that they are tired of the mass of demands, hassles and unpredictable processes that stop key investments in Sweden. "Then we have to look in other countries" he says. More companies are alarming about meekness. The mine Laver in Älvsbyn could have created thousands of jobs and been a significant part of the climate change that most of us support. But when a government acts in a slow manner and does not prioritise the important link in the value chain that the mining industry is, the situation of unpredictable state processes and hassle becomes unsustainable, and companies need to look for other solutions in other countries. Madam President, I would like I am deeply concerned about the Swedish rule problem. It is a genuine threat to Sweden's ability to continue to develop as an industrial nation. We Christian Democrats believe that there are good social and environmental reasons for enabling mines to be established and developed in Sweden rather than importing from countries that have substandard conditions and where, for example, human rights and environmental requirements are not sufficient. Our joint responsibility for maintaining a sustainable value chain throughout the process of battery manufacturing, for example, is a priority. The same is true of our planet, which we should use according to reason but not consume. We must all shoulder our responsibilities here. The management of the mining companies by the government is now at risk of leading to a business flight from Sweden. In the case of Älvsbyn, Boliden's message from the government represents an incredible loss to society. Madam President, I would like The reason we are standing here today is the proposal for a permit to investigate. The Swedish Parliament requested the Government to make proposals for changes to the state of investigation and the problems caused by the pandemic that we are all in right now. We wanted the proposals to be put on the table already this autumn, during the month of October. This could have enabled a decision to be taken from the end of the year. This was not the case, but the government chose Christmas days to come up with its proposals. This made it impossible for the changes to come into force at the end of the year. We regret this, but we accept the date proposed by the government on 1 March this year, when we are anxious that the proposal should finally be put in place. However, I am pleased that we are a united committee which wishes to point out that we have not yet reached the end of the pandemic and that there is therefore reason to continue to monitor closely the conditions of the exploration companies operating in Sweden. In particular, we would like to highlight the need to monitor the situation in cases where research permits have been granted after 1 July last year and which are not covered by the government's current proposals.
i-fdca63af5e683923-353	Madam President, I would like Never before in history have drug issues been so much in focus as now during the pandemic. The population is calling for and waiting for effective drugs and vaccines against the insidious virus that is ravaging. For almost a year, the pandemic has kept large parts of the world in its grip. For our part, the misery began in March last year. Great human and economic sacrifices are made daily to overcome the spread of infection. Too many have lost a loved one or a friend. We can never stress enough what a difficult situation we find ourselves in. However, thanks to global cooperation in research and the provision of substantial financial resources, new vaccines have been developed in an extremely short time. It took only 300 days from the identification of the unknown virus to the authorisation of the first vaccine. Normally it takes five to ten years. It's a scientific achievement. Changes are taking place more rapidly in the medical field, and in recent years major breakthroughs have taken place. New advanced therapies such as gene and cell therapies can now cure certain diseases that were incurable just a few years ago. This is, of course, a welcome development for all of us. But at the same time as much progress is being made in the field of pharmaceuticals, there are challenges. Perhaps the biggest and most difficult challenge is to create long-term funding for all new treatments. The new treatments initially cost considerably more than traditional medicines. Another challenge is to ensure that everyone gets access to the treatment, regardless of where they live in the country. A third is to be able to transfer knowledge in healthcare between businesses and out in the country. Madam President, I would like Although the pandemic has exposed major deficiencies in the pharmaceutical field, some of them were unfortunately known even before the pandemic broke out. Already a few years ago, the misery began with restless drugs, when several medicines were not available in pharmacies. This is a global problem, I would say. Among other things, it is based on having too few factories, which are concentrated in too few parts of the world. It is also based on financial incentives such as just-in-time, i.e. freighting the warehouse in trucks. If something happens to the production, then you're standing there. In any case, I am pleased that the government has been taking this issue seriously for years and that the European Union is doing so through its pharmaceutical strategy, because we need to find a solution to the problem of residual medicines. We also need to think about whether we should have more factories, especially now that we need so much vaccine. We will need that for many years to come, I think. Madam President, I would like Of course, all people in our elongated country should be offered good care as needed and on equal terms. This is why the government has provided historically large resources for health care, but has also increased the funding for pharmaceutical benefits in order to be able to meet the development of new medicines. It is the regions that are responsible, but the state supports the regions in that work. Several different efforts have been made to facilitate the introduction of new medicines. The aim is to achieve an equal and effective use of medicinal products. This work involves several authorities, all regions, as well as pharmaceutical companies and patient organisations. Within the framework of a government initiative, a centre for advanced therapies called CAMP was established in 2018. CAMP focuses on the science, technology and infrastructure required to implement advanced therapies in Sweden, including medicines based on gene therapy. In recent years, the government has given TLV, the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, a number of assignments that have bearings on the possibility of making new, expensive drug-related treatments available. The medical investigation also points to the need to provide additional resources for the new, modern medicines. For the government, research and development of pharmaceuticals in Sweden is an important issue. The industry contributes strongly to our bnp and our research and innovation capacity. Therefore, in 2019 the government presented a national life science strategy in the form of a comprehensive programme in various areas. This programme also highlights the possibility of having an effective process to implement new therapies. The Government has a focus on equal introduction of new therapies as well as the health promotion work of pharmacies. However, due to the extensive work on covid-19, the Ministry of Social Affairs has had to slow down in several different processes. Madam President, I would like Another issue under discussion is the future role of pharmacies. With the liberalisation of the pharmacy monopoly, several pharmaceutical chains have been created and new pharmacies have been opened. The service has improved for urban residents, but in the smaller towns and in sparsely populated areas it has rather become worse. We have been able to alleviate this somewhat by introducing a special rural grant that can be applied for. Some fifty pharmacies are receiving this support today. However, we agree quite well that we need to find new services and products for pharmacies in the future. The government has already given a mission that is about looking at this; it is about both competence development and these opportunities. Finally, Madam President, I note that the reform for free medicines for children and young people that was introduced in the past has had a strong impact. The proportion of children taking medicines has increased. The National Board of Health and Welfare notes that this also applies to children in families with lower incomes and education than in other families. No one should have to wait for care and treatment in our country from an economic point of view. I support all our reservations, but I only call for the winning consent of time to reservation 11 on the health promotion work of pharmacies.
i-fdca63af5e683923-370	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical issues. It is gratifying that there are two important announcements to the government, one on the health promotion work of pharmacies and the other on the equal introduction of new treatment methods. Much has happened, and little did we know how a virus would affect the whole country and the whole world. Never before has it been more relevant to work with the issues of healthcare, health prevention and vaccinations. Thanks to the pharmaceutical companies and industry, covid vaccine ‐ 19 has been developed in record time, and vaccinations are now underway, albeit on a small scale. It is now of the utmost importance that Sweden receives more vaccines and can increase the rate of vaccination. Vaccinations are among the most important and major community efforts to prevent and prevent diseases and viruses. Madam President, I would like Last year when the pandemic had begun, I chose to combine parliamentary work with supporting as a nurse at home, more specifically in home health care in my municipality Kungsbacka in Halland. At the time, at the beginning of the pandemic, I felt that I could do the most community benefit there. There were many important discussions around the lunch table with both old and new colleagues, about everything from protection and testing materials to how the world has developed, mixed with many laughs and old memories. Health care is more complex, and more advanced health care is provided at home using medical devices, in a completely different way than before. The meeting with the patients in their homes and the gratitude they showed was just as rewarding as 15 years ago when I worked as a nurse in home care. As I sat and prepared for today's debate, I came to think of all patients who can now be cared for at home precisely because of the development of, among other things, medical devices and treatment methods. It's a fantastic development. It has also meant the opportunity to spend your last time at home with loved ones, if you wish. Madam President, I would like Making home care work optimal requires a lot of logistics between several different actors and caregivers. A morning plan can easily be changed after the home visit of the first patient. A deterioration may have occurred, and a doctor's contact is needed. New samples or new drug therapy may be prescribed. However, medical, home care and health record systems are not interconnected, which creates unnecessary additional work and, above all, is not patient-safe. Much has improved in healthcare, but there is much more to improve here. It is good that it will be a national medicine list by summer, but it should of course be connected with the medical system. Medical devices range from simple consumables, such as syringes, to home monitors and advanced X-ray equipment, but also test equipment and protective materials are included. Just as important as the equal availability and availability of medical devices throughout the country is the equal availability of medical devices. Madam President, I would like Let me take an example. The development of diabetes medical devices is progressing rapidly – this is positive. But products that do not benefit patients do less good and play less role. The availability of new medical devices, such as advanced insulin pumps and continuous glucose measurement systems, varies greatly between our 21 regions. Here the guidelines of the National Board of Health and Welfare are important, and above all it is important that they are followed. This must not depend on where in the country you live. Madam President, I would like The role of pharmacies in society is essential, and the Moderates believe that the role of pharmacies in the future should be strengthened, developed and reviewed. Lifting the role and tasks of pharmacies in the future may include relieving health care, for example by enabling pharmacies to work more health-promoting and introducing self-care advisors who can instruct and advise on self-care. Another way could be for health examinations to be carried out in connection with collecting your medicine from the pharmacy. Another suggestion that we Moderates see with the pandemic is that pharmacists could be helpful in administering and carrying out vaccinations. Madam President, I would like We Moderates propose a national pharmaceutical strategy with the aim of having equal and good access to new innovations and more advanced pharmaceutical treatments. Sweden should be at the forefront in terms of patients' access to the latest innovations in advanced medical technology, new advanced, powerful pharmaceutical treatments and the use of digital technologies such as AI in healthcare. It is a very hopeful and promising development that is now taking place in the field of medical technology and medicines. Research is being carried out to a significant extent on serious diseases and diagnoses such as cancer, infectious diseases and cardiovascular diseases, to name a few. In the near future, much of the continued research and development of care will be about immunotherapy, cell therapy and gene therapy. This medical development can very likely lead to us being able to make diagnoses and with more individual treatments cure previously incurable sick people, which is absolutely amazing. In conclusion, Madam President, it is not without pride that I am raising my home country and Region Halland, which, more than ten years ago, started the Health Technology Centre which has now become Leap for Life. Leap for Life is an innovation centre for Region Halland, Halmstad University, all Halland municipalities and the business community in their joint efforts to change and develop the healthcare of the future. In information-driven care where health data meets AI, we have part of the health care of the future, I think. Of course, we Moderates support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-fdca63af5e683923-384	Madam President, I would like With the pandemic, we have learned to see things from a new perspective, and we have also realised our vulnerability. We have learned that nothing should be taken for granted. We have seen how promises and agreements have lost their true value from one day to another and how vaccine deliveries have been affected by factors that we do not really have any power over. The number of doses initially promised is not delivered and the rate of vaccination is affected. The resources for vaccination are available; it is the absence of vaccines that causes it. In the difficult crisis we are in, the vaccine is a light in the tunnel. It gives hope to grandparents who have not had the opportunity to meet their grandchildren. It means faith in the future for all those who must be in involuntary isolation and suffer from it. It gives hope that we may be able to return to normal everyday life again. The role of the vaccine will be equally crucial in future pandemics. It is therefore also important that we rethink and look at what might be best for our country and our population in the long term. When it comes to access to vaccines and medicines, it is particularly important for the reasons mentioned above that Sweden is getting away from its current dependency position and that we recognise the importance of strengthening medical research in our country and at the same time also working to stimulate more clinical studies, based on the actual needs that exist. The Coronandem will have far-reaching effects on our society. One issue that has been highlighted more recently is the long-term symptoms that covid-19 has brought to many, so-called long-term covids. Many who have suffered from covid-19 have been ill for a long time, and since there is no knowledge of the condition, it has been both problematic to receive care and in some cases also difficult to receive sickness benefit. According to a study from the University of Gothenburg, it has also been shown that some patients treated in hospitals for covid-19 show signs of brain damage, which is both alarming and very serious. There is a large proportion of people who have been affected by so-called long-term covid, and there is a great need for new knowledge. Efforts in this area are therefore crucial. According to British statistics, 9.8% of those who have been ill in covid-19 also suffer long-term symptoms. A lot therefore indicates that the effects of covid-19 may be extensive, and we need to be well prepared for this. There are countries that have opened special clinics for long-term covid. In Denmark, for example, there are 9 clinics, and in England 72 clinics have been opened. We are thus facing completely new challenges, and it will also require its unique solutions. Society must be ready, and we must constantly adapt to new knowledge of the virus and its effects. Madam President, I would like There was a re-regulation of the pharmacy market in 2009, which has led to an increase in pharmacy density and availability. The Swedish Democrats protect the pharmaceutical industry's ability to provide safe, safe and well-functioning pharmaceutical supplies. We are also in favour of the fact that more people have actually been given the opportunity to start and operate their own pharmacies, because we value entrepreneurship and initiative very highly. Our pharmacies have highly trained staff, and we believe that they are often an under-utilised resource. Apoteken can play an important role in relieving health care. Apoteken, for example, could perform simpler laboratory activities such as blood pressure measurements, glycaemic control and allergy tests. Apoteken also has every opportunity to offer health-promoting conversations, advice and training to help people with weight loss, smoking cessation, stress management or reduced alcohol consumption. Swedish pharmacies and pharmacists have announced that they wish to take greater responsibility and cooperate with the relevant authorities, due to the coronavirus and the current situation with the spread of infection. We have 1 400 pharmacies in Sweden and more than 5 000 licensed pharmacists who can assist us in different ways. We think that we should make use of all existing resources, especially now during the pandemic. According to the Swedish Pharmacy Association, pharmacists with their expertise can provide advice and information aimed at reducing the spread of infection in our society. The pharmacists can also help to deal with possible deficiencies and ensure that patients receive their necessary drug treatment. The approach of the pharmacy needs to be clarified, and this obviously does not apply only during the pandemic. We therefore believe that there are many good reasons to expand and strengthen the role of pharmacies in the care chain. Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 10.
i-fdca63af5e683923-397	Madam President, I would like To debate pharmacies and pharmaceutical issues is incredibly exciting, partly because there is an incredible amount of happening in the field of pharmaceuticals, partly because I see an enormous potential for how pharmacies could develop in the future and really be that important first and last link in the healthcare chain. Much is happening in the field of pharmaceuticals, and it is an exciting area. Medicine and medical technology are developing at a high pace and enable us to save more lives and create a better everyday life and a better life for many patients. If we only look at the last five years in the field of pharmaceutical development, we can see that we have made enormous progress. But if we are to succeed all the way, from research to patient, we must take a greater grasp of equality throughout the country. In particular, it concerns the equality of the introduction of new treatment methods and medical devices. It is therefore a good thing that the main focus of the national pharmaceutical strategy for the coming period is precisely to improve the conditions for increased patient safety and a more equal use of medicines. The pharmaceutical strategy highlights in particular the possibility of making new, expensive pharmaceutical-related treatments available. I will continue to follow this area because it is a high priority that we create equal conditions for access to treatment wherever in the country you live. The reverse side of the medicine coin is all the mistreatments that are being made that lead to people suffering illness and perhaps death, precisely because of incorrect drug treatment. The most affected group are the most ill elderly. I believe that the law must be tightened up here, but above all we must start to comply with existing legislation and make the pharmaceutical reviews that are to be carried out. Medicines that have not been tried out for the elderly are often used. Precisely drug reviews have been shown to be an effective instrument that can reduce the risk of incorrect drug treatment in the elderly. There is much more to be done here, and this is an issue that we must continue to work actively with out in regions and municipalities. I believe that everyone who is watching the debate today and everyone in this House has visited a pharmacy at some point in the last year. Perhaps you were there to pick up a vital medication, to get advice on your medication, or to buy some self - care product for yourself or perhaps for your mother's winter dry hands. Others may have visited their pharmacy to see the nurse at its office. For a pharmacy today is far from just a place where you pick up your medicine. A functioning pharmacy is a pharmacy with a close and trusted relationship with the customer, which can help with the best possible drug use. Today the pharmacy is truly established throughout the country. They have a strong position and a high level of public confidence. What if we could have developed these activities even more? What if we could even better have allowed pharmacies to become the important first and last link in the care chain? Apoteken has by far the largest and best expertise in terms of drugs and their importance to the patient. This resource can be better used, thus contributing to reduced costs of misused drug use and reducing the risk of patients suffering unnecessarily due to incorrect medication. If we link back to the elderly and their medication, I think the pharmacies and their expertise can make a huge contribution through drug reviews, counseling and so on. In many other countries, pharmacies have a heavier and more developed role in the healthcare chain. I would have liked to have seen this development here in Sweden, where pharmacies, for example, could work more with advice, care of easier conditions, nursing clinics, sampling and tests. Apoteken can then capture people who are not yet patients in primary care but who can benefit greatly from pharmacy services as support for living a more healthy life. In this way, we strengthen patient power and self-care while at the same time relieving care. I see, just as the pharmacies themselves do, that there is a great potential here. But there are some clouds of anxiety on the horizon. In addition to a resistance to legislation, one of them is about the ever-increasing shortage of pharmacists and what they can actually lead to. This is where we need to make a move. Madam President, I would like In order for a pharmacy to be kept open today, the requirement is that there is a pharmacist physically in place who can deliver a medicine. As there is a large shortage of pharmacists, this may lead to certain pharmacies in smaller towns in sparsely populated areas being forced to close or severely reduce their opening hours. Today, many pharmacies are already witnessing difficulties in recruiting pharmacists to smaller locations. This problem could be solved if we allow pharmacists to work remotely. The technology exists, and it works in other countries. Why not also in Sweden? Today, it is possible to call a doctor remotely and get both diagnosis and treatment prescribed digitally, but there is no possibility of handling a medicine with a pharmacist remotely. We therefore believe that the legislation should be reviewed and that the government needs to take initiatives to enable pharmacists to participate remotely. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 14, which seeks precisely this. Of course, I support all the proposals made by the Center Party, but for time to come, I only support that reservation.
i-fdca63af5e683923-410	Madam President, I would like We're living in a crisis. It has also resulted in a shortage of medicines in the spring; we are all aware of that. Reduced layers create risks in a normal mode. In international crises, such as the one we are now living in, the risks are becoming much clearer. In the national risk and ability assessment for 2016, MSB considered that Sweden continues to be dependent on the import of medicinal products. Sweden's domestic production of medicines is small and no vaccines are produced nationally. At the same time, pharmacies, hospitals and wholesalers have reduced their stocks. ..................................................... That is the reality, and it is a very sad time to go into when we have this pandemic and are totally dependent on the very private companies. Now the vaccine is coming in – there have been many lifts. I think that's fantastic. A year ago, no one thought we'd have a vaccine. But, as I said, we are dependent on other actors. It is not the Public Health Agency, government, parliament or regions that can ensure that we get the deliveries from the pharmaceutical companies. This is a question that needs to be looked at. How can we increase our own production of medicines and vaccines in the future? But I will come back to that in another debate. During 2019, the Government has decided on various measures to improve information and the coordination of authorities in the event of a drug shortage. That is a good thing, but structural problems cannot be communicated. It's not gonna be good. The lack of medicines is not only a matter for Sweden, but Europe as a whole is alerting this – France, Italy, Belgium, Poland and the Netherlands. The Netherlands Minister for Health has proposed a publicly owned pharmaceutical production at EU level. That sounds a bit attractive to a left-wing party. To put one's hopes in purely private pharmaceutical companies does not always feel safe, Madam President. The current system of pharmaceutical manufacturing in Sweden and in other countries and with a lack of requirements for stocks, creates risk situations for thousands of people. It cannot be waved away by the fact that most people who buy drugs are very satisfied. Today, too, there is no overall responsibility for the availability of medicines. The MPA collects information and monitors developments, but there would be a need for a central actor and a clear division of responsibilities in terms of who should do what in this. Those who are to prescribe and deliver medicines must have full knowledge of what is available. There must also be an authority with knowledge of everything available from producers to those in need of a medicinal product. We think that the Medical Products Agency would be an excellent player for this very thing. They could keep a national eye on left-over medicines and on flows from pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and health care. Then we could secure this. The changes made by the bourgeois government in the Swedish pharmacy system, with liberalisation in 2009, have led to some shortcomings in the system and negative effects on stockholding. At the same time, the availability of pharmacies is enormous in the inner city, I have to say. I have, like, 100 meters walking distance to four pharmacies. It has to be said that we live in big cities full of pot, Madam President. The Left Party believes that the changes were purely ideologically driven. Perhaps the wrong starting point was that medicines are like any retail item. We said no to the liberalisation of Apoteket precisely because of the market ideology that was behind it. And we had a pretty well-functioning system. The system we have now works as well, but with a lack of stockholding and inequality across the country, it may not be at its peak. The real winners in terms of liberalisation were, in fact, business. It was said that liberalisation would mean that there would be many small family-owned pharmacies across the country. It didn't really happen that way. I have met representatives of some of the family-run pharmacies who have had to fight with beaks and claws. Not many of them are left. The big losers were the taxpayers. Availability is much more than a number of pharmacies per inhabitant. It's also about you having quick access to your medicine no matter where you live. Madam President, I would like According to a Novus survey from April 2020, more than six out of ten Swedes want to renationalise pharmacies. After the sale of Apoteket AB, new business models have emerged to increase the shareholder value. There are different clusters and chains where you combine your business with grocery stores. You get great points if you shop in a particular store and at a pharmacy that is connected to the business chain and so on. This may mean that the public health aspect is pushed into the background, we think. Madam President, I would like We therefore want to initiate a review of the pharmacy market and the conditions for state ownership of pharmacies. In reservation number 7 I lift this. There is a class inequality in terms of health but also a geographical one. Many of the new drugs and treatments developed, such as cancer, are super potent. They are very effective but expensive. This poses economic challenges for regions, but also ethically. Which patients should receive this type of medicine? Expensive medicines are important for patients in all regions, but there is an extra burden for regions with a weaker economic situation. That is why it is very good that the majority of the committee wants to find a model for geographically equal treatment methods. This is supported by the Left Party. I'll also say that 2016 – it's been a few years since – the medicine was free of charge for children up to 18 years old. This is a great relief for many families with a weak economy. I'm glad it's moving on. Equality is never wrong when it comes to health care.
i-fdca63af5e683923-426	Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, pharmacies are an obvious part of the healthcare chain. Unfortunately, however, we feel that pharmacies and their highly trained staff today are an under-utilised resource. By expanding and strengthening the role of pharmacies and pharmacists in the care chain, primary care, in particular, can be relieved. The resources of healthcare can then be directed more effectively towards those patients who have the greatest need for care. This is something on which we Christian Democrats have been putting forward concrete proposals for several years here in Parliament. I am therefore pleased, Madam President, that the Committee on Social Affairs is now in favour of one of the Christian Democrats' proposals in this particular area. The committee stresses the need to develop and strengthen the supportive role of pharmacies in the field of health promotion. I look forward to following closely the government's handling of this announcement. Madam President, I would like So-called pharmaceutical services are well established in many other countries and are an excellent way to take advantage of the expertise of pharmacists, while the advice and self-care currently offered at pharmacies can be strengthened and the patient's access to medicines can be improved in patient-safe forms. It is therefore welcome that the Government is now giving the dental and pharmaceutical benefit agency the task of carrying out a larger trial on pharmaceutical services with a focus on advice and better drug use. However, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, we believe that there are a number of additional pharmaceutical services that should be included in the experimental work, and I would therefore like to call for our reservation 12. I am thinking, for example, of a so-called pharmaceutical range because today there is no category of medicine between what is non-prescription and what is prescription-only. In other countries, a pharmaceutical range includes specially selected medicines that may be sold without a prescription, provided that they are sold in pharmacies behind the counter and together with advice from pharmacists. This includes, for example, ointments for eczema, potency medicines or higher strengths of safe medicines which are currently non-prescription only in lower strengths. It would also be useful if over-the-counter medicines with a negative environmental impact were to be included in a pharmaceutical range. This would allow a pharmacist to inform the patient about how to use the medicinal product in question and to dispose of it in the best way to minimise the negative environmental effect. Madam President, I would like So-called re-procurement is another pharmaceutical service that we think should be part of this experimental activity. Through the re-marketing medicinal product, pharmacists can prolong the validity of a prescription that has expired under certain conditions developed in conjunction with the medical profession. In Denmark, this has been introduced together with restrictions on which medicines and diseases are covered and with the condition that it should be a stable medication for a person over 15 years of age. The doctor must also have noted his permission in advance. It should also be the case that only the smallest package can be dispensed, and the responsible doctor must prescribe a prescription for the next delivery time. Medicines that could be relevant for the re-marketing medicinal product include insulin, blood pressure medicines or birth control pills. The advantage of the re-marketing medicinal product is that it prevents interruption of the drug treatment and allows the patient to calmly contact his doctor to get a renewal of his prescription. I believe that this procedure would make life easier for many people. Madam President, I would like I would also like to touch on the widespread shortage of pharmacists. According to SCB, the proportion of employers who state that the availability of pharmacists is good or balanced has decreased from 93 per cent in 2005 to 33 per cent in 2018. On 1 July last year, the requirement for pharmaceutical competence and the liability of the pharmacist in connection with prescription processing also came into force. This is something that we Christian Democrats believe risks further exacerbating skills shortages and, in the long run, also endanger both quality and patient safety. We also see the risk that more pharmacies will have longer waiting times and reduced opening hours, which is likely to impair citizens' access to medicines. We Christian Democrats reserved ourselves against the introduction of this amendment for a number of reasons, not least because it is not possible to demonstrate that there would have been skills shortages in the past that put patient safety at risk in the management of prescriptions at risk. But now the legal requirement is in place, and we therefore believe that it is urgent to follow up how it affects the pharmaceutical supply of expertise. Where necessary, derogations from pharmaceutical competence should also be proposed at appropriate stages during the prescription procedure. Madam President, I would like The pharmacy's e-commerce can be seen as a good complement to physical pharmacies in both urban and sparsely populated areas. But it cannot fully replace the physical pharmacies. There are medicines that cannot be handled via e-commerce, such as drug-class drugs and antibiotic solutions that need to be prepared in connection with processing, and there is security in being able to visit a pharmacy and there get advice from the pharmacy's competent staff on the use of prescription medicines and self-care. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that it is important that people in sparsely populated areas also have close access to a physical pharmacy, but with the national pharmacist shortage we have it is unfortunately difficult today. Madam President, I would like Today it is possible to obtain both the diagnosis and the treatment of a doctor remotely via digital services. However, there is no possibility of handling a medicinal product with a pharmacist remotely. In order to ensure high availability of pharmacies in rural areas too, we therefore believe that a trial with a pharmaceutical presence at a distance should be introduced and evaluated. Again, this is a system found in pharmacies in other countries. Madam President, I would like Overall, Sweden has a lot to learn from the pharmacy business in other countries. However, I am genuinely pleased that Christian-democratic policy in this area is beginning to have an impact. The fact that the committee now states the importance of developing the pharmaceutical sector's part in promoting health is an important part of strengthening the role of pharmacies in the healthcare chain.
i-fdca63af5e683923-439	Madam President, I would like I will start with what should be obvious when it comes to medicines: medicines that make us healthier should not harm animals or people anywhere else in the world. Sweden and the European Union need to set stricter environmental requirements, and I also want to see an eco-label so that we citizens, if we want, can make a contribution both when buying prescription-free and when there are two medically equivalent medicines to choose from that may have different environmental impacts when they are manufactured. I would also like to say a few words about a particular threat, namely antibiotics. Antibiotics have revolutionised health care and people's lives, Madam President. It is thanks to antibiotics that we are now able to treat past life-threatening infections, save premature babies and give cancerous people a future. People who had previously had a very short time left to live can have transplants. However, if we allow antibiotic resistance to gallop further, the health care system risks being transferred 100 years back in time, to the 1920s. Here the government needs to push in many ways, including for global manufacturing requirements and stricter monitoring of pharmacies across Europe. The list can be made long. The apothecary, yes. Apoteken is an extremely important part of healthcare, but they need to become even more important. Apoteken can take more place in the care chain; we Liberals are absolutely convinced of that. I am convinced that pharmacies can provide more care and more self-care support if they get the chance, Madam President, and I am therefore very pleased that the Liberals and other parties' motions on this very subject will appear to be approved later today. Of course, more is needed. It is not finished with this. All pharmacies should have the task of dividing medicines into portion bags at cost to people who think it makes their everyday life easier, who need to bring medicines with them safely on a trip or who are afraid that they will make mistakes because there are too many different tablets and opportunities to keep track of. In addition, an intermediate mode is needed between prescription-free and prescription-only. These may include, for example, environmental-impact medicines which are currently non-prescription or which could be non-prescription but where the environmental impact means that they should only be disclosed after advice and consultation with a pharmacist. It can also be about people who have a prescription for a medicine since before but who find it difficult to get a care visit in time to renew their prescription but who with the help of a pharmaceutical range, this intermediate position between prescription-free and prescription-only, could get a small pack that takes them further. It would help them, and it would relieve the health care. On one point, however, pharmacies need to be ironically less involved in health care. I'm talking about ownership relationships. Swedish law already assumes that there is a built-in risk of over the medicinal product if the doctors who prescribe medicine would also own pharmacies and sell the same medicine. We don't want it that way. Therefore, it is forbidden for doctors to own pharmacies. But the reverse is perfectly permissible. Pharmacy may own online medical companies. In addition, pharmaceutical companies may own health establishments. That is absolutely crazy – verkehrt, as my German colleague would say. There must be a clear distinction between prescribers and sellers, for our health and for the sake of our ecosystems. Over the sale is risky in so many different ways. The same operator shall not be able to have financial interests in several places along the care chain. It's as simple as that. I therefore support, that is to say, the Liberals' and Kris t dems' reservation 9 in paragraph 9, which deals with these issues. Finally, I would like to extend warm thanks to all of you. New drugs must reach people in an equal way in our country, regardless of the postal address and whatever disease we suffer and what happens to us during life. That is why I am pleased that later today the Parliament will set its foot on this. We Liberals want to see more national governance in the field of pharmaceuticals, and when it comes to really expensive therapies for rare conditions, such as gene therapies, we want the state to take greater financial responsibility. We think it's necessary. I am very pleased that the majority of you, my colleagues, agree with us Liberals and Christian Democrats that we need to find a path where the state, pharmaceutical companies and health care can together secure good treatment for people with rare conditions. Thank you very much for this! It will be nice to see the green lights lit at the vote today. Green light for better life.
i-fdca63af5e683923-450	Madam President, I would like Now is the time for the Committee on Social Affairs to debate public health issues. When I was standing in the speaker's chair almost exactly a year ago, I proudly pointed out that the Moderates were the party that brought about Parliament's first health-promoting exercise and prevention exercise. Today I am at least as proud as we constantly upgrade and work with the prevention issues. I am also pleased that several parties have now initiated public health movements. It bodes well. A lot has happened over the year, and little did we know how a virus would affect the whole country-- well, the whole world. Never before has it been more topical than now to work on health prevention measures. Thanks to the pharmaceutical companies and the pharmaceutical industry, covid-19 vaccines have been developed in record time, and vaccinations are now underway – albeit on a small scale. It is now of the utmost importance that Sweden receives more vaccines and increases the rate of vaccination. Vaccination is one of the largest and most important community efforts to prevent and prevent diseases and viruses. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have a high degree of adherence to the child vaccination programme, and we have thus eradicated diseases such as polio. Let us now hope that the adherence to vaccination against covid-19 will be as high. For me, public health issues, health promotion, prevention are one of the most important things a society can work with. Policy should put a great deal of effort into prioritising and focusing. Having said that, it is impossible to touch all the important areas of public health in my six minutes in the speaker's chair. I will therefore focus on some of the Moderates' proposals for a longer-term healthier Sweden. Madam President, I would like Since 2010, vaccination against HPV, a papilloma virus that causes cervical cancer in women and girls, has been included in the general vaccination programme. That now from autumn 2020 also boys are included in the general vaccination program for HPV we see Moderates with great joy on. We have been pursuing this issue for many years. With Sweden's current vaccination strategy, the HPV virus will be eliminated for children and young people born in 2007 and onwards. The next step is to eradicate cervical cancer completely. Here, Sweden can be one of the first countries in the world to succeed. Madam President, I would like Every year, approximately 550 women in Sweden suffer from cervical cancer, and 150 die each year from the disease. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has set the goal of global extinction. Other countries have therefore started their eradication programmes, but so far Sweden has not done so. Together with the Christian Democrats, the Moderates want to implement a concrete action plan to systematically vaccinate and screen women in order to eradicate cervical cancer within five to seven years. The initiative shall be coordinated at national level and monitored at regular intervals. Women receiving HPV vaccines are approximately 90% protected against cervical cancer. This provides good protection against cervical cancer. This vaccination will result in the virus causing HPV being eradicated in Sweden. This, in my opinion, is prevention for real. Madam President, I would like Sweden must start working more coherently, coordinatedly and systematically with measures that are health-promoting, preventive and long-term. There are challenges and problems with current governance and organisation of health care linked to preventive work. Preventive health promotion is a low priority. The Moderates want to see a national reimbursement model that encourages and strengthens long-term health promotion, preventive measures such as prevention and interventions that strengthen rehabilitation. We also want to see the knowledge and experience of occupational therapists and physiotherapists used more structured and methodically in preventive health work throughout society. As soon as possible, national guidelines should also be developed for rehabilitation activities. Madam President, I would like Many in Sweden are healthy and active at an old age, but at the same time more than half of the country's adult population is estimated to be overweight or obese. Living with obesity increases the risk of diseases such as cancer, type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure. If we improve our living habits as a whole, 20 percent of all diseases in Sweden can be prevented. The treatment of obesity today differs between and within the regions, and the treatment of obesity is far from equal. Last week it was on the news a story from Norrbotten. There was a man in his 24's with a high BMI who wanted help with his obesity. He wanted to lose weight in a long-term and sustainable way that promotes his health. The doctors he met pointed out that he needs to lose weight, but Region Norrbotten has no care program for obesity. He only gets help with his overweight when he has developed a sequelae of obesity. Yeah, you heard me right. This means that the care of people with obesity is fully available when the disease has gone far and there have been few sequelae. The treatment of people in Sweden with obesity or excessive obesity must become as natural a part of the healthcare system as supporting people with other chronic diseases. It is gratifying that national guidelines are being developed. Here, we consider moderates that it is essential that, when the guidelines are drawn up, a monitoring and feedback structure must also be developed. Madam President, I would like We Moderates continue to push the issue and the importance of developing and implementing a national health promotion strategy. Sweden must aim methodically, long-term and structured to create better conditions for a good and more equal health of the entire population. A single national strategy shall set clear objectives and identify priorities, specific actions and how regular monitoring and evaluation are to be carried out. The role of politics is not to come up with touchsticks but to facilitate and provide good conditions for all people to make individual healthy choices. Madam President, I would like We Moderates support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 1.
i-fdca63af5e683923-467	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we support all our reservations, but today I am only calling for reservation 2. By 2020 will be etched in history as a very dark year when the new Corona virus put our country in a serious crisis. The Pandemine sweeps over us and reaps its victims. Elderly and other vulnerable people with underlying disease or other risk factors are most severely affected. The debate on the robustness of society in the face of pandemics is often about the capacity of health care, but one crucial aspect of the resilience of our society to the spread of infection is the health of the population. The importance of good public health has become particularly evident during the pandemic, not least because some public health-related factors have been shown to contribute to an increased risk of suffering from a more severe progression of covid-19 disease. These include obesity, obesity, high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes and smoking. It is also important to take advantage of the positive health effects that have been highlighted during the pandemic. Many testify to an increased motivation to quit smoking or to be more physically active. However, it is not always easy to change familiar patterns of life. In the footsteps of the pandemic, we see that nature has become particularly important and that more people discover our nature and choose to stay there. A survey carried out by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency among stakeholders meeting visitors to nature confirms that a record number of visitors visited Swedish nature during the summer. Outdoor life has never been more important, and the demand for activities is great. We see that we will have to pay much more attention to lifestyles and lifestyles, so it is important that people can be encouraged to eat healthier, move more and reduce the use of alcohol, drugs and tobacco quickly and effectively. Public health policy aims to support the individual in making healthy choices. By early detection and personalisation of treatment schemes, many public health problems can be prevented. A continued restrictive alcohol policy and prevention of smoking are important in this context. Madam President, I would like At the same time, there is a worrying development: according to a new report by the World Health Organisation, 80% of young people are moving too little. It is a major study carried out in 146 countries, where 1.6 million young people between the ages of 11 and 17 have been asked how much they are moving. This is the first time that such a large study has been carried out on the physical activity of young people. Young people should move at least an hour a day, and this is not just about sport and sport, but also about everyday activities. A sedentary lifestyle has many negative effects on the child's muscles, bone density, heart, motor skills, balance, BMI, quality of sleep and concentration. The situation is serious and requires urgent action. All parts of society must therefore gather together and help each other. It can be about more physical activity on the schedule, safer walking and cycling routes and more places where young people can practice their physical activities. There are several preventive methods in the ANDTS area that have been developed and proven to be successful. These and other evidence-based methods need to be made more accessible at national level in order to ensure the quality of preventive public health work. We believe that projects that have been proven to have successful public health prevention effects must be managed and implemented. Preventing ill health and illness is one of the most profitable investments a society can make for its citizens. Effective preventive measures can also lead to significant cost savings. Madam President, I would like Even before the covid-19 pandemic hit us, the increasing mental illness in society could be classified as one of the greatest public health challenges of our time. Although the pandemic primarily affects people's physical health, it is also well known that mental health is affected by severe social crises, such as pandemics. Previous research shows a number of examples where suicide has been temporarily reduced during a social crisis, and then compensated – or overcompensated – after the immediate crisis situation has passed. This is, of course, something for which we must be prepared, but at the same time it is at least as important and crucial that we work preventively and strive by all means to counteract such developments. A good mental health of the population is a prerequisite for recovery after a crisis. For this reason, we need more knowledge in order to gain a better understanding of how the covid-19 pandemic has affected the mental health of our population. At the same time, clear strategies and specific measures are needed to help strengthen the mental well-being of society, both during and after the pandemic.
i-fdca63af5e683923-478	Madam President, I would like Indeed, the pandemic has put public health high on the agenda. More and more people have become aware of what they can do to strengthen their health, and that is actually a positive development in an otherwise rather heavy time. Surely it's time we really started talking about how we can strengthen our health ourselves – that we really take a grip on the health of our population and do everything we can to enable you and I to strengthen it, both on our own and with the help of the public. That people should be given freedom and opportunities to make their own, well-founded decisions and contribute to their health through good lifestyles and a healthy lifestyle are, in my opinion, very important aspects of public health work. Just as we can reduce the risk of covid-19 by, for example, keeping a distance and washing and spreading our hands, we can prevent non-communicable diseases through good lifestyles and good choices. Madam President, I would like From a global perspective, public health in Sweden is good, and in many respects the health of the population shows a positive development. Life expectancy is increasing, more people estimate their general health as good, child and maternal mortality is decreasing and daily tobacco smoking is decreasing in all groups. The high medical quality of Swedish healthcare means that most people receive high quality treatment. However, there is much evidence that there is still a high level of public health inequality. In a number of areas, the differences between different groups in society are still large and sometimes also increasing. Unfortunately, we can also note that there are major challenges with regard to mental illness. So-called lighter mental disorders such as depression, depression, and fatigue increase not least in young people, which is particularly serious. Furthermore, the outbreak of covid-19 places great strain on the health of the population. Apart from too many deaths, isolation, economic losses and personal crises are also likely to affect the mental well-being of the population. A number of studies have also shown a deterioration in mental health in the population in the aftermath of, for example, the financial crisis in 2007-2009. In order to prevent health risks from developing into diseases, healthcare needs to work with prevention and health promotion. Care should not only be on hand once we have become ill; it should also give us help and advice so that we do not get sick. There is therefore a great need for new, coherent solutions that mean that self-care and health care can take a greater place in the individual e-health care system, all to strengthen public health and increase the autonomy of each individual's own health. I would therefore like to call for the approval of reservation number 15, which calls on the government to set up a broad investigation into self- and health-care reform. At the moment we are in the midst of the pandemic, but in its wake and aftermath, I am afraid we will have many challenges to address linked to the field of public health. A report from the Centre for Epidemiology and Community Medicine shows that people who have received intensive care for covid-19 are more at risk of impaired mental health. Many also need long-term physical rehabilitation efforts. These groups we must pay attention and help, and I think we actually need to have a plan for how to take care of those who are long-term ill in covid. Healthcare professionals also risk long-term mental disorders after the enormous stress they have experienced during the pandemic. The WHO also warns against a long wave of mental illness after the pandemic is over. In Centerpartiet's motion Developed healthcare and care throughout the country describes how we in the Centerpartiet want to develop psychosocial support for employees in healthcare. Madam President, I would like Impairment due to stress and fatigue symptoms has been increasing steadily since 2010. According to Försäkringskassan's statistics from April 2019, over 36,000 patients had been diagnosed with illness. The majority of them, nearly 80 percent, were women. Being out in nature has positive effects for people with stress, anxiety, depression and fatigue. Research also shows that people with stress-related mental illness can benefit greatly from undergoing green rehabilitation and experience that the supportive environment contributes to reduced stress levels, return to work and structure in everyday life. The meaning of green rehabilitation can briefly be summed up by doing various activities in a green environment, participating in activities with animals or just being in a peaceful place in natural or cultural landscapes. However, it is about working systematically with evidence-based methods and helping participants to see their progress. Many people today are committed to green rehab, and evaluations point to positive effects of, among other things, the method of green rehabilitation used at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences' rehabilitation garden in Alnarp. We can also see that in Norway, which since 2010 has had official certification of green welfare services in agriculture and the reindeer industry, a research project is under way on precisely green rehabilitation for people with dementia in the early stages. Preliminary results show that a lot of outdoor time makes a big difference to quality of life. The Center Party therefore believes that green rehabilitation is very interesting and should be followed up with further investigation and evaluation. Madam President, I would like The area of public health is a large and important area. With the help of many small contributions from all of us in everyday life and with a structured public health and self-care reform where we invest in strengthening the health of every citizen, we can achieve great and good results.
i-fdca63af5e683923-490	Madam President, I would like Public health in Sweden is developing positively, and life expectancy continues to increase. People are more involved in their health than ever before, and it is very exhilarating. At the same time, health is unequally distributed – in some groups stress, mental stress, smoking, alcohol risk, overweight and other health problems are increased. There are therefore still significant health gains in strengthening prevention. Smoking, excessive sunbathing and the risk of alcohol use are well known factors for the development of cancer. Unhealthy diet and lack of physical activity are some of the main causes of certain diseases and lost healthy years of life in Sweden. These include the risk of overweight and obesity and the risk of suffering from type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, stroke or various cancers. Tobacco use is the most common risk factor for disease, but after that there will be unhealthy eating habits. Today, approximately 90 000 people fall ill annually in diseases linked to unhealthy food and lack of physical activity, according to the Swedish Public Health Agency. Madam President, I would like Knowing that our habits are driving the development of many diseases can be heavy. At the same time, it is hopeful that calculations show that at least one third of cardiovascular diseases and also some cancers could be prevented by changing lifestyles. It is clear that active public health work brings great benefits to the individual, but also to society as a whole. A Christian Democratic public health policy aims to support the individual in making healthy choices. It should be easy to do the right thing, but then society must also offer evidence-based support and targeted actions that promote good choices. In order to implement, disseminate and ensure the quality of effective preventive public health practices, municipalities and regions need central support and training, which is something that is lacking today. For example, there are several preventive methods in the area of alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco – ANDT – that have been developed and proved successful. These and other evidence-based methods must be made available nationally to ensure the quality of preventive public health work. We therefore believe it is urgent that a national competence centre be set up in the field of ANDT. Anything else would actually be a waste of our common tax resources. Madam President, I would like In order to promote healthy eating habits, we believe that the government should set up a study to evaluate which public instruments and what possible warnings and information measures could have a long-term positive effect on consumption behaviour. We Christian Democrats also have several proposals aimed at promoting physical activity, not least for children and young people. We aim that there should be physical activity on the schedule every day in comprehensive school and that children's surroundings should be designed so that it promotes movement and physical activity. We also know that children living in families with financial vulnerability have less active leisure time than other children. One explanation for this may be that children's leisure activities are expensive. All too often, in the face of financial vulnerability, the family's finances are a matter of great responsibility. When children's leisure activities begin to compete with other needs in the household fund, many children express their desire to stop their training. This is a responsibility that children should not have to take – no children should have to take it. The Christian Democrats therefore want to introduce a leisure card for all children between grade 2 and grade 9, which is loaded with at least SEK 500 that is earmarked for participation fees in leadership-led activities in association life. Children living in households in financial vulnerability would receive significant support of SEK 2,400 per year. The reform would provide support for almost 1 million children for more active and meaningful leisure time, and the largest support would be given to the approximately 150 000 children who need it most. Madam President, I would like Adults also need to be stimulated to increase physical activity. A good example of this is so-called physical activity on recipes, what is commonly called FaR. FaR should be adapted to the patient's own conditions, wishes and life situation. The action has been in place for a number of years but has not been fully implemented. There is also inequality across the country as the 21 regions have different strategies for how to use FaR. We Christian Democrats therefore propose, together with the Moderates, that there be a validation and evaluation of the effect of the different working methods used within the FaR and of how the legitimate healthcare professional can contribute to the patient's long-term sustainable lifestyle change. Following this quality assurance, national recommendations linked to FaR should also be issued. Madam President, I would like It is the Public Health Authority that is responsible for public health work at state level, and we Christian Democrats fully understand that the Agency's work in this area has had to stand back a little under the covid-19 pandemic. However, it is urgent that the Agency's public health mission be given the highest priority as soon as possible. In particular, it is necessary to implement and follow up coordinated concrete actions adapted to public health work at local and regional level in order to have an impact on society as a whole. In this context, it cannot be stressed enough how important it is to see civil society as a key player in public health work. Finally, Madam President, we believe that Sweden needs a national public health-promoting strategy that aims methodically, long-termly and structuredly to create better conditions for good health for the whole population. Therefore, I and the Christian Democrats would like to support our reservation 4.
i-fdca63af5e683923-504	Madam President, I would like We have set targets to achieve good health in the population. It has improved considerably over the last 100 years – one can say that a 70-year-old today feels like a 50-year-old 50 years ago. It is absolutely fantastic, but this improvement must continue. There are now worrying clouds, not least during this pandemic. In order to achieve the objectives that we have agreed in Parliament, we need to have a strategy. That is why the Liberals are exercising on the creation of a national strategy to achieve public health objectives. I would like to vote in favour of reservation 5 in paragraph 2. If we are to achieve these goals, all sectors of society must be involved. Today we hear about athletes and others who slip and break in the streets. Yearly people do not dare to go out in Stockholm because the walkers do not work in the snow mode and on the tricky sidewalks. They experience double risk – partly to get infected by covid-19, and partly to slip. Covid-19 is the responsibility of health care, but health care is not responsible for making streets walkable, if I may put it that way. Those who plan the construction of homes should at once ensure that it is built without thresholds, with wide doors, good lighting and stairs that can be walked in when the lift stands and so on. Several have mentioned obesity and the ill health that results from it. Therefore, the food industry in collaboration with the Swedish Food Administration, the National Institute for Public Health and so on becomes an important factor. The idea of a cross-sectoral approach is not new. In fact, the World Health Organisation came along in the late 1970s, but it kind of came off. At one stage it was a minister from each department who would gather around a strategy for good public health. But the interest unfortunately failed in the management functions there, so it did not contribute to this. Maybe we were too early then. But now is the time to see what it means to maintain health throughout our lives and what it means for the use of tax money. Anything we can prevent, which therefore does not burden the tax bag, can then be used for other needs that are perhaps more serious and larger. We've got a couple of moves here about vaccinations. They were written before we knew as much as we know today. But one of these is about children, year-long people or others at risk of serious infections being able to meet staff who are vaccinated against various health problems. I am thinking of what has happened in southern Sweden with the spread of measles. It is a disease that has killed many children elsewhere, but not in Sweden because we have a high level of vaccination when it comes to measles. We come in our exercises on seasonal flu and on vaccination against covid-19. We Liberals, although Liberals are a party of freedom, think that they should be vaccinated against covid-19 when working in the care of the elderly. An ill health problem that existed before the pandemic but which is so evident now is the effects of isolation. I see it in my generation now. It is not only isolation because of the pandemic, but also, as I said just now, because you do not dare to go out because of the ice bar. This is paired with uncertainty about when we are vaccinated. Not least we year-rich had hoped to receive a call for vaccination at the end of January or at the beginning of February. The latest information is that my peers – I am 87 – and I can expect to be vaccinated by the end of March or April. This is cruel because we have been given the opportunity to be vaccinated quite soon. At the same time, we read obituaries and hear about peers who iron with. Yesterday, however, I received a message of joy for a man who turned 80 two days after he had become ill. He's been poking after his breath for 14 days. But yesterday he woke up and asked for a beer. Then I thought: Wow, we'll see him again. I will conclude my speech with this. Thank you for listening!
i-FpP5WDy3tmgHuRe5ytZPD4	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about the Social Affairs Committee's report on health issues. The issue of public health is so much more than that of the report. As one colleague said in last year's debate, it is a matter of life. Therefore, it feels so good with the great commitment of all parties. About 150 claims prove well what commitment there is to public health issues. Before I continue, I support the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like In fact, I think that we all want the same thing, to achieve better public health. We have sometimes chosen different paths to reach the goal. Then I feel that you never really get ready, because new things keep coming up. You can always get better. But it is important to move in the right direction. The goal is for it to benefit the health of the population. There is an overall objective of public health policy: to create the conditions for good and equal health for the whole population and to reduce health gaps within a generation. Under this objective there are, as you know, eight target areas. The government has been working on this issue for many years. For example, in 2017 there was a proposal for good and equal health, and at the end of 2020 the government received a report from the Swedish Public Health Agency on the road to good and equal health – Support structure for public health work, so much work is going on. There is a national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. Much has been done there too, and work is under way. Madam President, I would like Mental ill-health is today's major public illness. Mental ill health is increasing among young people and mainly among girls in their teens. Therefore, the government is doing extensive work on suicide prevention and mental health. This work is extremely important, for it is so incredibly tragic when a person chooses to end his life. And worst, I think it's when a young person chooses this right after starting his life's journey. The Social Democratic-led government takes this very seriously and makes great efforts: 1.7 billion in 2020 for mental health, suicide prevention, psychiatric trauma care and more and 380 million for accessibility efforts within bup. As late as 1 July 2020, state grants were awarded to non-profit organizations in the field of mental health and suicide prevention. This is extremely important, because many organisations are doing an amazing job, I have to say. The National Programme for Suicide Prevention is comprehensive and consists of nine areas of action. A future national strategy in the area of mental health and suicide prevention is being developed. Of course, there is much more to be done. For example, primary care can be better at preventing suicide among the elderly. Of course, training measures are needed to recognise risk factors. We also have the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, which processes statistics, conducts research and works with information and education. So there is a great deal of work going on here too. Madam President, I would like With regard to protection against communicable diseases, we have a disease protection law which states that the Public Health Agency is responsible for coordination at national level. We have the national vaccination programme and the general one. Then there is the disease control regulation to lean on. Today there is only one general vaccination programme, and it is for children. However, the Public Health Agency has proposed the introduction of specific programmes for four diseases: hepatitis B, influenza, severe pneumococcal disease and tuberculosis. What is extremely important for public health is the children's vaccination programme, which offers all children protection against eleven diseases. The Public Health Agency has a mission to implement measures and develop work on information and communication about vaccinations. That is good, because it would be very unfortunate if the propensity for vaccination were to be reduced. Today, vaccination coverage among two-year-olds is 97%. The proportion of ticks vaccinated against HPV has increased to 86%, which is good, but the figure can of course be higher. It is positive that the authority has developed support for communication and education about HPV for pupil health so that you can inform properly. We have no general obligation to have us vaccinated. However, the regions should be able to offer protection against communicable diseases. Madam President, I would like When it comes to public health, eating habits and physical activity are important. Many diseases are due to bad habits. Poor eating and drinking habits, together with non-existent physical activity, have a very negative impact on public health. Of course, alcohol and drugs play a major role in public health. We should also take this issue with us when we talk about public health issues. We also see that socio-economic differences have a major impact on public health. Here, among other things, overcrowding plays a major role in the spread of infection in pandemic times. Children and young people move less in today's society, which increases the number of overweight children. As recently as 2018, this Assembly adopted a new overall objective and a new target structure for public health policy. One intermediate goal is to promote increased physical activity and good eating habits. Work is under way on national guidelines for obesity care, with reduced levels of salt and sugar in food. Another ongoing work is the development of measures that promote physical activity, paying particular attention to children, young people, the elderly and people with disabilities. Madam President, I would like We are part of public health and contribute our part to better public health. We should think about what's in us and take those extra steps every day. We must also care about each other, for loneliness and isolation are not good for anyone. It has appeared as a major problem during the pandemic, and probably depression, anxiety and sleep difficulties have increased. This is not a good thing for public health. Public health is much more than we have time to address today, such as noise, stress and emissions. During the pandemic, some of us move considerably less than we need. The most difficult is for many old people who are isolated and do not get out. When the pandemic is over, we will evaluate how it has affected us from a public health perspective. Public health issues will be important in the future, and I hope that we can all contribute to that work.
i-fdca63af5e683923-538	Madam President, I would like During and after the pandemic – for it will eventually come after – we must be vigilant about the evolution of public health. In my post I will focus entirely on mental health. We have shut down high schools and universities during the pandemic. Various studies show that vulnerable children and young people have become increasingly vulnerable during this period. Young adults have turned their lives around, unemployment is ticking and social distance has hit many hard, especially 70-plusers. All small restaurants live on the edge of the abyss, and owners have maximum anxiety. All over the world, people bite together and wait for vaccines that will calm the situation. We can see how long school closures in other countries have adversely affected children and young people. Therefore, it is good that Sweden has not closed schools for long or at all. Madam President, I would like We will see increased problems in the area of mental health following the pandemic. I'm afraid I'm pretty sure. It's about everything from anxiety in small portions to severe diagnoses and, at worst, suicide. During 2019, 1,588 people took their lives in Sweden. In traffic, 223 people died in the same year. With regard to traffic, where Sweden, as well as suicide, has a zero vision, huge resources have been invested, which has contributed to better road safety and a sharp reduction in deaths. In terms of mental health and suicide prevention, a similar effort has not been made. We must, of course, change this. Suicide can be prevented in a variety of ways, for example by learning to see signs combined with good, effective and offensive care and by structured analysis of statistics. It is also a case of suicide committed after contact with the health care system, which is unfortunately not quite uncommon. Too many people are denied help when they come to psychiatry, for example. It won't happen. It's like saying no to a patient with an ongoing heart attack. Guidelines need to be developed on how regional work against suicide can be strengthened around risk groups. There is a need for public health work around it, which we lack. The Left Party has exercised it before. It simply needs to get out information on how suicide can be prevented. There is also a need for public health legislation so that regions and municipalities are given a clear mandate to work specifically on public health issues. It cannot be freely chosen work. Madam President, I would like In the last election – it feels a long time ago but is not so – the Left Party said that we wanted to see a national boost for the whole area of mental health so that psychiatric care is given the same focus as cancer care, i.e. working as intensively on these issues when it comes to severe depression or suicidal thoughts, for example. We will continue to highlight this accessibility package for the whole area of mental health. It's just supposed to work. Having knowledge of suicide prevention should be as important as CPR. Depression is a public health disorder that can be life-threatening. It also follows you throughout your life, so you can say that it is a chronic disease. Then it is important that the care picks it up early and follows up. Preventing mental illness in children and young people is important. That is why we need to have an equal and good preschool and school where children are quickly seen to be ill, who are having difficulties, for which it will not go well or who feel bad for various reasons. These children need immediate help. Madam President, I would like Today, many with good finances choose to seek private help for themselves or for their children's mental problems. They do it when they don't get help from the region or when the school fails. This will be a clear inequality and a class issue. Not everyone can afford to pay SEK 1 000 per visit to prevent mental illness. That's the reality. We need a well-being to trust, and by now you know what a left-wing party will say: We must prioritise and perhaps not have major tax cuts or grid grants to screw up IKEA furniture. It is a matter of giving priority to public health. It is important to prioritise welfare activities such as preschool, school, pupil health and social services so that we have a base to stand on and to have a child – and youth psychiatry that is easily accessible. We must also find other ways in for young people, for example through youth receptions. The fact that there are conditions for counselor contact and therapy discussions with a certified psychologist is very important. Psychiatry, as well as other healthcare services, should work with standardised care in those areas where there are national guidelines. That should be a matter of course. We need to prevent the whole area of public health, and I believe that mental health will be a major issue after the pandemic – because, as I said, there will be one after the pandemic. I call for all reservations to be rejected.
