i-07d0375e5077d109-0	I submitted on Thursday 25 November the proposal that Magdalena Andersson, the Social Democrats, be appointed Prime Minister. Magdalena Andersson has stated that she intends to form a government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats. The proposal has now been tabled twice and will be examined at today's sitting.
i-07d0375e5077d109-2	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a government – a government that turns on every stone to force the violence back and break segregation, a government that takes back control of welfare and ensures that everyone who works there has the right conditions and a government that creates jobs throughout the country through Sweden leading the climate transition. But, Mr President, I will be very brief. Nothing in the parliamentary record has changed since Wednesday. Magdalena Andersson is still the most qualified and the best suited person to lead Sweden and do what is necessary to take the country forward. That is why we Social Democrats will vote in favour of Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister.
i-07d0375e5077d109-4	Mr President, I would like to Around Sweden, municipalities and regions are governed by various partnerships in the middle. When the election result in 2018 was at least as uncertain as in the Riksdag, local and regional politicians from the Alliance, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party across the country took a huge responsibility for Sweden's municipalities and regions to have stable governance. We see how the Alliance has formed its own majority or majority together with the Green Party, how the Social Democrats run together with the Center Party and the Liberals and how the Moderates and the Social Democrats have found ways to cooperate. In fact, a very large part of Sweden's municipalities are governed by cooperation in the middle. This gives stability and the opportunity to focus on policy solutions that benefit people in each municipality or region. In our neighbouring country, Germany, a new government has been formed. A coalition of Christian Democrats and Social Democrats has been succeeded by a three-party government with the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Greens. Both the right-wing populist AFD and the left-wing party Die Linke are outside the cooperation. Unfortunately, this seems to be a distant climate of cooperation in the Swedish Parliament. Here too many people have locked themselves in an unobtrusive block thinking. The destructive bloc policy has not only come back, but it has become even tougher. It would be devastating if the conditions for how Sweden is governed were no longer shaped by the decent middle and were dictated by the outer edges of the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. What results when the outer edges are given power we have seen several examples of: unserious censures without their own alternatives, unholy collaborations that stop bourgeois, liberal policies that would have strengthened Sweden's long-term and unpredictable left- and right-wingers in politics that make it harder to tackle Sweden's real social problems and create long-term stability. The Center Party wants to see another way. We want more focus on what unites us and on the political reforms that Sweden needs. We will continue to strive to solve the social problems facing Sweden today through a policy based in the middle. We need to break the fragmentation and polarisation that risks paralysing Sweden's political capacity for action. It takes courage and innovation to find political solutions. This term of office has taken exceptional responsibility for the Center Party. By focusing on important reforms that Sweden needs and constructive cooperation, we have contributed to Sweden being governed without a right-wing populist and xenophobic party gaining a decisive influence over Sweden's government. Today is the fourth occasion for this term of office that we are stopping the Swedish Democrats from gaining influence over government power. Today it also comes with an important historical mark: Sweden gets its first woman as Prime Minister. And we in the Center Party are contributing, again, to her acceptance by the Riksdag. That a woman can reach the ultimate political leadership even in Sweden, much later than in many other countries, is great. It means a lot to many girls and women to see this glass roof crushed. It means a lot to gender equality. I am proud that the Center Party is involved in making this possible. Politics is based on standing up for its values, not yielding to power and working with its values as a compass to implement political reforms that Sweden needs. We choose to let through a Social Democratic Prime Minister based on the historic agreement that is now being implemented on labour law and labour market transition, on strengthening ownership of forests and on reformed beach protection that makes it easier to live and live throughout the country. And we do it because in this way we keep SD away from government power. We are therefore abstaining, i.e. pressing yellow, in today's vote on Magdalena Andersson. Let me just explain the yellow button and how it has been used historically and until today. It's important. For the Center Party, the yellow button does not mean that we are part of a government base. For the Center Party, the yellow button means that in a given parliamentary situation we do not see any other possible government leader. To claim that this means that you are part of a government base is a misinterpretation of the parliamentary practice that we, like many other parties in the Swedish Parliament, have used over the past few decades. For example, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party were not part of the same government base after the 2014 elections, but all chose to vote yellow in order not to give the Swedish Democrats influence. Sweden has a long parliamentary tradition of minority governments and of their being able to rule the country. It is very worrying that so many parties no longer support this important foundation of parliamentarism. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party will continue the work of the Riksdag as an independent, constructive opposition party. Next year we will be going to elections as an independent, liberal option with the door open to cooperation and negotiations to take Sweden forward.
i-07d0375e5077d109-17	Mr President, I would like to Our confidence in the Social Democrats, or Magdalena Andersson for that matter, has not changed since last week, but it is intact. That is why we will also be voting red today. We have seven lost years behind us, although the outgoing Prime Minister has described them as seven amazing years. I am thinking of crime, segregation, the decay of the school, the energy crisis, which we are not least aware of these days, the erosion of welfare and so on. It is a problem after problems for which this government is very much responsible. What is possibly new since last week is the budget. It can be pointed out. Now, then, the new government, which is likely to take office, will have to rule on a much better budget than the one it presented itself. We can still be happy about that. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new governance, and we expect this to happen in just under ten months' time. There is one thing I would like to highlight about this with extremes and decency. Magdalena Andersson will most likely be voted on by a margin of one vote. That vote is bought by entering into a deal with the savage of Parliament. This settlement promises to deepen its contacts with the Kurdish Communist Party PYD. It is a party that is close to the terrorist organisation PKK. It is a party at least accused of kidnapping political opponents. Mr President, I would like to I think that when you talk about who will have influence and the like, you should also think about it when you press the green or yellow button here today. I find this most amazing.
i-07d0375e5077d109-23	Mr President, I would like to It's serious now. We are facing enormous challenges. Pandemine's not over. And the idea of a future with well over one and a half degrees of warming and a massive species death is really serious but unfortunately not unthinkable. The need for leadership is great. A government will rule the country. It must have the mandate and the means to do just that, and the budget is the most important tool for this. For many years, it has been a practice to link the election of Prime Minister with his ability to get a budget through. This practice has been a key part of the governance of Sweden. However, due to the parliamentary situation in recent years, this practice has made it difficult to form a government. Many have therefore abandoned this principle. But for me and the Green Party, that principle is no less valid because it becomes complicated. If parties are able to talk to each other, agree and jointly implement reform after reform, it is possible to govern the country even in a political turbulence. Changing that principle precisely at the time when a far-right party for the first time forms part of the budget base will be seen as an absolutely crucial point when we look back in retrospect on the turbulent days that we have been through. Opinions have been made that will shape and define the image of different parties for a long time to come. The Center Party argues that it is possible to maintain a position where one does not have to choose, but that position does not exist, because in politics one must be prepared to take responsibility for the consequences of one's actions. Where the Green Party stands is clear. The government has no value in itself, but only to the extent that it offers the means to get through its reforms and to steer the country in the direction that you think is right. Circumstances right now make it wise to do what we can to contribute to stability. We see the situation we are in right now as an exception. We will move forward in every situation to have an impact on green policy and for Sweden to be governed on the basis of faith in the future and on the basis of solidarity. To many, the events here in Parliament appear to be a political game. To emphasise that this is not at all a game for the Green Party, let me say a few words about the issues that have been at the centre. It is about whether we are going to slow down climate change or whether we are going to lower the price of emissions in the middle of a climate crisis. It is about whether the Amazon of Sweden, the mountain forest, should be protected or destroyed and whether our children and grandchildren should have a nature to enjoy. It is about whether those who are sick and have the lowest income should pay more in tax than we who work and whether we should conduct a policy that increases or narrows the economic gap. It is a question of whether aid should go to combat poverty or return. This is an opportunity to give pensioners who have the lowest pension more money in their wallets. These are issues of great importance to Sweden, and these are issues that we in the Green Party take with us as we go into opposition. We come with a passion and will to continue the work for Sweden to change and cope with the natural crisis and the climate crisis. We will fight for the weak. We will respond to hate with love. The very first thing we did in opposition was to submit a motion in which we are fighting for the independence of public services. The second thing we will do in opposition is that later today we will take an initiative to stop the reduction in petrol tax. We are both sober and firm and, of course, invite all parties who take the climate crisis seriously to do this with us. Last of all, I would like to ask the Swedish people, in a moment, when the President sums up the vote, to poke their ears. Because the sound of a glass roof being broken is a wonderful sound. It's a moment to enjoy and celebrate. Sweden needs a prime minister, and in the elections that exist, the elections are by no means difficult for us in the Green Party. We will vote yellow and thereby release Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister.
i-07d0375e5077d109-34	Mr President, I would like to Honoured Members of the Swedish Parliament and all the audience! There have been many explanations of vote here in the speaker's chair recently. As the President has said, it would be unfortunate if this were to affect voters' confidence in the political system. I would like to refer to what I have said in previous explanations of vote this summer and last week. I have both expectations and hopes for a female Prime Minister like Magdalena Andersson. I am not alone in this. Last Wednesday, the Riksdag decided on a budget that involves more of right-wing politics. But it is not through more job tax deductions or an increased tax gap with those who are ill or disabled that we solve the challenges that Sweden faces. It is not by reducing aid for the construction of cheap rentals that we are fighting segregation and overcrowding. As an independent Socialist Member, I have voted against all the draft budgets of the Swedish Democrats and the Right, as well as all their censures on the removal of the government. In this way, I have been consistent, unlike those who claimed that SD would not have any influence but, on the contrary, did the historic day last week when the Riksdag elected a female prime minister for a historically short period of time. Today, I will vote greenly for the President's nominated candidate Magdalena Andersson, and I have previously highlighted her experience and competence for the mission. Mr President, I would like to 100 years of women's struggle deserve an impression here in the fortress of democracy. Last week I told him that many voters had contacted me and wanted to make sure that I would vote for Sweden's first female prime minister. But there's nothing against how many people have contacted me in the last few days. Both men and women, young girls and boys, thousands of voters but also people with different party affiliations have stressed the important symbolic importance of a woman being elected prime minister. Many have been both disappointed and surprised that we now have to vote again. 100 years after women were given the right to vote, history is being written today. And women are involved in writing history. Women take their place and pave the way for other women. The fact that Magdalena Andersson can take office as Prime Minister will hopefully make it a little easier for the next woman who in the future will be elected to the same assignment. However, a minority of the emails I have received have been more boring. There are some men who have said two things to me: that I should leave my place of parliament and that I should leave this country. They also tell us that there is a party in which they are members. I want to tell you that Sweden still has bigger problems than that I live and fight here. I think it's sad that some people can still feel that way. I will remain in the parliamentary term out and work for an even better Sweden where all people should feel at home, seen and heard. Because there are big problems. These include segregation, unemployment, insecurity and economic gaps. I will continue to work towards profits in welfare and against religious schools that only increase segregation as well as school segregation. I and the Social Democrats have exercised this together. I look forward to the Government, led by Magdalena Andersson, presenting the proposals agreed by me and the Government this summer. Among other things, it is about introducing a special offence of honour and about the possibility of using the exit ban law to protect children from being taken out of the country on so-called upbringing trips. On these issues, I will also cooperate with other Members and parties. I have Sweden to thank for so much, and I want to continue to work to make the country better. Our solidarity, equality and feminist achievements should extend not only to the girls, women and young people of our socio-economically vulnerable suburbs, but also internationally. I know that the majority of voters want a society where women dare to take their place and a society without racism. Don't turn your back on them, said the women's rights fighter and Social Democrat Fadime Sahindal when she spoke here in Parliament almost exactly 20 years ago. It is about all those girls and women who live under honorary standards and oppression and who every day have their lives limited by patriarchal standards and honorary culture. Fadime gave his speech on 20 November 2001. Women take their place and change history. I was there listening. Tomorrow is 30 November 2021. I hope to be able to listen and watch Sweden's first female Prime Minister read out her government declaration. I expect to hear a Social Democratic Prime Minister who shows that the government will not turn its back on all these honourable girls and women. It will be a historic day, because history is written when women dare to take their place. Then, Magdalena, I'm sure I'll shed a tear. As a politician, you have to let yourself be touched. Politics without tears just gets cold and hard.
i-07d0375e5077d109-48	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs to be built strong again. More resources are needed in healthcare, health insurance needs to be equipped, pensions increased and jobs created. That's why the chaos we've seen this week is sad. The Left Party takes responsibility for Sweden's stability. That is why, despite the fact that in many ways it is unworthy of democracy, we have accepted all the reservations and rules of the Center Party. For us, the main issues are: strengthening health insurance and raising pensions. In the summer, the Center Party imposed a ban on negotiations, which meant that the government that they themselves released could not secure their own budget. You must not negotiate the budget with the Left Party, they said, well aware that it was the government's only chance of being able to rule the country. Although our voters were thus excluded from their right to democratic influence, the Left Party chose to act constructively for the good of Sweden. We said that health insurance must be strengthened and pensions increased but without calling for negotiations. The Center Party, in turn, demanded major tax cuts, continued industry support for large restaurant chains and a privatised employment agency. In addition, the Centre Party called for the Government to proceed with proposals for more uncertain conditions for Sweden's employees, a deterioration in the right of public access and a less good forestry policy. The government delivered everything on the Center Party's wish list and also did not negotiate with the Left Party on the autumn budget. Mr President, I would like to I must therefore say that Wednesday's budget vote surprised me. Instead, the Center Party released the right-wing nationalist budget, a few hours after the same party released a Social Democratic Prime Minister. They're holding the prime minister they've chosen hostages. She is now forced to implement a right-wing nationalist budget, because the Center Party said that the government's leaned too much to the left. However, the reforms of health insurance by the Left Party did not go away. All these requirements will be implemented and will take effect after the end of the year. Finally, there will be an increase in sickness benefits, a reduction in taxes for the same group, a security pension for those who have been worn out and a change in the rules of sickness benefit – among other things. By releasing Magdalena Andersson today, the Left Party's November agreement on increased pensions of up to SEK 1 000 is also secured tax-free per month to a large part of the country's pensioners. This proposal will be presented by the government this spring. The Center Party saves all Left Party proposals but sabotages for its former partners the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party by, for example, removing family week and money for forest protection. With friends like that, you don't need enemies. Mr President, I would like to I note that Annie Lööf says in her explanation of vote that she and the Center are not part of the Social Democrats' government base. But if you are not part of the government base, you do not make reservations or demands on the government you let go of. The Center Party is part of the government base when they require an S-government to go forward with the deterioration of labour law and the agreements on forest and beach. There's no other way to look at it. Political prestige and arrogance are not beneficial to democracy. Sometimes you have to accept reality, roll up your sleeves and get along... even if you're a long way from each other. It has been a difficult term of office, and political stability is now needed. Sweden has major social problems that need to be resolved. The Left Party is, and has always been, pragmatic and cooperative. You can't decide everything – as an 8% party. That's what the Left Party sees. But we have argued the obvious, namely that those who let a government go must be able to agree on a whole everyone can accept. After Wednesday's breakdown, an S-government will govern a right-wing nationalist budget. I am now even more convinced that the democratic rules of the game must apply – for the sake of the voters and for the stability of the country. There are two government options. The Center Party must choose. Do they want to be part of the right-wing nationalist option or do they want to run the country with us, the red-green parties? For the Left Party, the choice is simple. We look forward to continued constructive cooperation and negotiations with the new government, to make Sweden a better and safer country to live in for everyone. Sweden can do better. Politics can change. It matters what you vote for. We do not have to continue to dismantle Swedish welfare. The November agreement between the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party means that we leave behind the destructive era of a ban on negotiations and hopefully also the chaos and instability that have long characterized Swedish politics. By using the basic tools of democracy, negotiation and compromise, we have implemented the most comprehensive improvement in health insurance in over a decade. Swedish welfare should mean security in the event of illness. We will now implement the greatest increase in pensions ever made in this pension system. Those who built our country deserve that respect. It is possible to improve society, and we left-wing parties are prepared to do the job. Therefore, we will once again release Sweden's first female Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson.
i-07d0375e5077d109-63	Mr President, I would like to Seven hours say a lot about the situation in Swedish politics right now. Last Wednesday, Magdalena Andersson was elected Prime Minister, she lost her budget, lost her government partner and resigned before her government took office – all within the space of a scarce working day. The Swedish people have followed the collapse of the red-green government base before an open curtain. Four parties have misled, opposed and blamed each other. Who knew exactly what about the Green Party's defection is still obscured, but it is at least clear that neither the Social Democrats nor the Green Party raised the matter with the President before the Prime Minister's vote. Had they said as it was, Sweden could have avoided Wednesday's political circus. It fosters confidence in our democratic institutions, and it damages people's respect for our common political system. It is bad for all of us, regardless of which party we represent and vote for. It is bad for Sweden as a country. It is now a shooting a day, a deadly shooting every week, 200 000 long-term unemployed, 675 000 foreign born of working age who cannot support themselves and an energy crisis that endangers climate change, investment and people's private economy. At a time of serious problems, Sweden needs political stability and political action. Instead, Magdalena Andersson now wants to form the weakest Swedish government since Ola Ullsten 1978. It is a government that cannot gather its own government base for a common political line on a single important issue. It is a government whose cooperation parties, as we have just heard, cannot even sit down and talk to each other as adults. It is a government that does not get its economic policy through, a government base that only agrees on one thing, namely that a party and their voters should not count at all. It is not sustainable in the long run in any democracy. On one point, however, I would like to congratulate Magdalena Andersson. If you are elected Prime Minister today for the next nine months remaining for the elections, you will in any case have a much better budget.
i-07d0375e5077d109-68	We Moderates will continue to gather good majorities in Parliament. It's not a threat. It's a promise. The budget that won last Wednesday now lays the foundations for getting Sweden in order. We give priority to the fight against crime through money for increased police salaries and a broad effort to strengthen the entire judiciary. We focus on exclusion and benefit dependency by standing up for the work line with lower taxes on low incomes. We are taking the first steps towards a major benefit reform so that it will always pay better to work than to live on benefits. Our budget saves Swedish forestry from the Green Party. It opens up new opportunities to gather a majority for a real change in beach protection. Our budget shows respect for the fact that not all people can take the subway to work and for an ordinary family in the country to afford something more than just gasoline and heat. The Left Party should also have voted for our budget, for the sake of pensioners. We are lowering taxes for all pensioners and strengthening the economy for those with the lowest pensions – already now. Furthermore, speaking of all the solemn speeches about the future of liberal democracy, our budget provides new resources to strengthen the independence of the courts and the protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals. With all of this, we are now shortening the starting line for a new bourgeois government, which, after the elections, can map out the long-term path towards a better future for our country. Mr President, I would like to It says quite a lot about Swedish politics that the four parties that now want to unite under another Social Democratic government cannot agree on a common political direction and that we who can set out a new course for Sweden are blocked by four divided parties on the left from also taking responsibility for implementing that policy. Of course, the opposite would be reasonable – to release the government option that supports its policy now, not the one that has just proven that it does not support its policy. In practice, the Riksdag today appoints a nine-month transitional government that has no mandate from anyone. This is not good for Sweden, and therefore the moderate parliamentary group votes against Magdalena Andersson as the new Prime Minister. I also referred this to the President. That the Left Party wants a left-wing government even seems to me quite natural. That the Center Party also wants it to be more untied. But the fact remains: As long as the Center wants a Social Democratic government, it is simply not possible to form a bourgeois – before the elections. However, giving voters another mandate in the elections next year changes it. One more mandate, and Sweden gets a change of power. A single mandate. In 286 days, the polling stations will close. Then Sweden can have a real government that gathers around what you are for, not what you are against. A government that respects all parties and all voters and does not feel the need to insult and defam its political opponents. A government that takes on all that we have in common so that Sweden can get something done. A government that wants to gather, not divide. A government that will focus on the major issues, crush the gross criminality, break the passive dependency on subsidies and make Sweden a leading country in the climate transition through reliable, pure Swedish electricity generation. That, Mr President, will be a government that can put Sweden in order, because there is nothing bad in Sweden that cannot be addressed with what is really good in Sweden. With that seriousness and hope, I look forward to election day.
i-07d0375e5077d109-79	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the tension is intolerable how the KD will vote today. I'd still like to make a point. Over the past few months, we have been able to read reports of a major problem affecting quite a few industries but perhaps the car industry in particular: there is a shortage of semiconductors. That particular problem certainly does not suffer from the Swedish government or the red-greens, sometimes supporting parties. I could say, what did we say? Government bases must be based on what you are for, not on what you are against. Progress is based on will, not reluctance. But that particular point is now so overly clear that I am not going to develop it any further. This autumn, we are looking for Christian Democrats to support a new government, a government that does not shy away, a government that gives a voice to those who have no voice and who fight against the forces that threaten people's security. A KD-M government based on common values but able to talk and negotiate with everyone. A government with a full leader. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are voting against the new S-government today.
i-07d0375e5077d109-83	Mr President, I would like to Then we're here again. Magdalena Andersson's attempt to become Prime Minister of a coalition government collapsed after a few hours. Now, instead, we are going to test the proposal that Magdalena Andersson be given the task of forming a socialist one-party government. Our standing here does not depend on the President nor on the Liberals. The President has tried to hear from all the parties in the Riksdag about both the conditions for the formation of government and the relation of the planned government to the budget base. Unfortunately, it turned out to be very difficult. But the Liberals' message is clear: Sweden would be best served by a new, liberal and bourgeois government. Since we voted on Prime Minister last week, the price of electricity has gone straight up the sky. Shooting and murdering on our streets continues – last night, in fact. The school's challenges persist. Social problems are high, and the chances of life of vulnerable people are limited. Mr President, I would like to As on Wednesday, the Liberals today vote red, that is to say no. We believe that there are conditions for another government if only all parties take on board the fact that we need to be able to talk to all parties in the Swedish Parliament. As most of the evidence suggests that Magdalena Andersson has sufficient support from the Center Party, the Green Party and the Left Party to take office, I and the Liberals would like to congratulate her as Sweden's first woman to become Prime Minister. It is in itself a big deal, and we Liberals are delighted about this very thing. Liberals are now in political opposition to the government which is most likely to take office tomorrow with a completely new declaration of government. But we will continue to work for a liberal and bourgeois government that can create a new start for Sweden by the end of the elections. Liberals will now and in the future act constructively in favour of an understandable energy policy for the climate and supply of electricity, in order for the school to become the starting point for all the children it should be, for integration that opens doors and closes parallel communities and for a business environment where entrepreneurs feel confident and invest in jobs and welfare. As I said, Sweden needs a different government from the one that is now taking office. But we will do everything we can in committees and in this House to turn politics forward for the good of Sweden and face the difficult societal challenges we face.
i-VrpKAkaMvyQ2h9qYLUtvFg	Vote yes if you wish to approve the proposal to appoint Magdalena Andersson Prime Minister.
i-TRPbFsQeWQdrRQwxsvp2so	If at least 175 of the members of the Riksdag vote no, the Riksdag has rejected the proposal. Otherwise, it has been approved.
i-YGhGiQRDiRuK9zz4s8nrt3	Less than half of the members of Parliament had voted against the proposal. The Parliament had thus appointed Magdalena Andersson Prime Minister.
