i-5a88c9462f80f70f-18	Mr President, I would like to We're going to debate the law on public procurement. It is a law that applies to procurement below the thresholds. We can see that there are major problems in the Swedish labour market's ocial dumping, the work environment that is overlooked, long entrepreneurial chains that make occupational responsibility unclear, bids that are too low and unhealthy competition that knocks out serious companies. All of this affects the legislation that is being put forward – at least it is hoped that it will. Last term of office changes were made to the Public Procurement Act. It was important for us and for the government at the time to be able to impose labour law requirements not only on the core of labour law, such as collective agreements, holidays and working hours, but also on insurance, leave other than holidays and pensions. But we couldn't get that through. The right went together. The Centre Party, the Liberals, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats then wrote in a motion that the Parliament should reject the proposal in the parts concerning an obligation for contracting authorities and entities to impose special conditions of labour law and related provisions. When the Swedish Democrats joined the other right-wing parties, the bill fell, and they had to come back with a proposal that was much more eroded and only according to the EU's demands on the very core of labour law. Here's what's gonna happen. The insecurity of workers, the working environment and what they are exposed to through social dumping are obviously affected by a right-wing policy. It did not get to the very core of labour law because it was a demand from the European Union. If there hadn't been, there wouldn't have been any ska requirement in this bill at all. We are now going to debate new legislation on the Public Procurement Act below the thresholds themselves. I regret that the government did not try again in this legislation. In this proposal, there is no requirement for a compulsory requirement on labour law requirements, not even on the very essence of labour law, but merely vague wording that one should or might well try to take some account of it and so on. LO writes in its referral: LO's approach is that contracting authorities should always require their suppliers to perform contracts in accordance with labour law conditions in line with collective agreements. ..................................................... LO also believes that the mandatory conditions should also include occupational pension and insurance conditions. So do we. Unfortunately, the government does not. It has not even been prepared, and so we were not allowed to insist on it in our motion on this bill. I do not know whether the government does not believe that the issue is important enough or whether it has simply given up because of the opposition of the collective right. But it's bad. We had a demand to come back with a proposal on full labour law requirements, but as I said, we were not allowed to do so because the government had not even prepared the question. I hope that I will receive answers here from the Social Democrats today as to why they have not done so. The current wording on taking environmental, social and labour law into account uses words which, in fact, should, and should be taken into account, and which reduce the very importance of labour law, social and environmental considerations. We believe that, on the basis of the evidence available, the word should be replaced by that of the person concerned. But even so, the Social Democrats could not stand up for it, and I think it is a very bad thing. In public procurement, abnormally low tenders are often a sign of maladministration. There may be social dumping, attempts to exaggerate competitors in the short term, hidden costs or unfair competition creating market failures. Serious companies simply face problems when rogue companies take part in procurements and abnormally low tenders are not rejected. We, as well as several consultation bodies, including Famna, LO and the Swedish Construction Industries, believe that it should be a ska-requirement that abnormally low tenders should be rejected. But that is not the way the legislation is designed. One might think that the government, with its high tails on these issues, should have been able to meet such a demand. But you don't. Corruption and economic crime must, of course, be combated with the tools available. Therefore, it should have been a mandatory requirement to reject abnormally low tenders even below the thresholds, just as it is for contracts above the thresholds. Instead, it is now proposed that an authority may reject a tender if it finds that the tender is abnormally low. However, the offer may not be rejected until the Authority has requested an explanation and has not received a satisfactory reply, it states. Here, too, we think that the word "sheep" should be replaced by "honey". Why should we not reject abnormally low tenders? That is the question that needs to be asked. I hope to receive answers during this debate. I doubt, however, that I will have it. We also had a request that the government should come back with proposals for improvements for non-profitable idea-based companies, but it was also considered to be outside the scope of the matter and could not be put on the table of Parliament. That is why we acted in committee together with other parties and are now behind the announcement that the government should evaluate the legislation on public procurement and review the possibilities for increasing the opportunities for small companies and non-profit actors to participate in procurements and to win procurement contracts in order to ensure their opportunities to participate in procurements. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I think it would have been a good thing if it had been possible to raise the thresholds and thus the limits for direct procurement, for example to facilitate the participation of idea-based and smaller companies and to obtain contracts through public procurement. Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservation.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-36	Mr President, I would like to The value of public procurement amounts to nearly SEK 800 billion each year. Given the large amount of public procurement, public procurement is a powerful tool that the public sector has to use to develop its operations and achieve societal goals. Many people today view the national procurement framework as unnecessarily complicated. It is therefore positive that the government's priority is to make these rules simpler and more flexible. Simplification means fewer complicated rules and less administration. In order to increase the opportunities for contracting organisations to work strategically with purchasing and for suppliers to submit competitive tenders, a clear, simple and effective regulatory framework is needed. With simpler and more flexible rules, both contracting authorities and suppliers will be able to shift the focus from law and the risk of lengthy court proceedings to taking a holistic approach to a good and sustainable business. The report we are debating today deals with the proposal for a simplified procurement framework. It makes proposals aimed at making the regulatory framework for non-directed procurement and the procurement of social and other specific services simpler and more flexible. An important change is that it will be free for a contracting authority to adapt and design the procurement according to the needs of the contracting authority and the specific conditions that apply to each sector. Among the proposals made are some that are particularly interesting. These include the proposals on dialogue, the possibility of direct procurement in the context of judicial review, the possibility of more procurement of social and other specific services being reserved, and the raising of direct procurement limits for social and other specific services. The proposal for a specific provision on dialogue aims to clarify the possibility and encourage the use of dialogue in an ongoing procurement process. An ongoing dialogue between contracting authorities and suppliers may reduce the risk of misunderstandings and appeals. The supplier may, after dialogue, come up with corrections and additions, and the risk of misunderstandings due to lack of clarity in tenders may be reduced. Today, there is uncertainty among both contracting authorities and suppliers about the possibility of having an ongoing dialogue in an ongoing procurement process. It is therefore a good thing that this is now being made clear. One problem that has been raised is the limited possibility of making necessary purchases while a procurement is being examined in court. The proposal proposes the possibility of direct procurement in the context of a judicial review. Such a cover purchase, as it is called, should be able to meet urgent needs during an ongoing review. Examples of such goods and services could be meal services, sanitation or basic infrastructure in essential services. However, it may also apply to purchases needed to meet statutory health and safety requirements or other requirements aimed at ensuring people's lives, health and safety. It is also proposed that the provisions of the Procurement Directives on the possibility of reserving procurements of social and other specific services for certain organisations, such as idead operators, should be fully implemented in the laws. Such an option already exists in the Public Procurement Act, but it is now proposed to include more services, including health care, social services, education and culture, as well as being included in the Supply Sector Procurement Act. The idea-based organisations are important actors in welfare. The proposals in the bill open up for more flexibility and local solutions around the country's municipalities and regions. This will have a major impact on the ability of ideas-based actors to grow. The direct procurement limit for social and other specific services shall be raised up to the thresholds. This means that it will be possible to directly procure services for up to approximately SEK 7.7 million according to the Public Procurement Act and for approximately SEK 10 million according to the Act on Procurement in the Supply Sectors. The Government is also actively working on several other issues related to the procurement regulations. On 28 October, Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko and Deputy Minister of Finance Åsa Lindhagen had a press conference on a Ministry letter on new strengthened rules in public procurement. Authorities and entities shall be obliged to take into account important societal interests in terms of climate, environment, human health, animal welfare and social and labour law aspects of public procurement. This letter is now being referred to 31 January 2022. In order to speed up the development of appropriate purchasing organisations, the Government has, among other things, commissioned the Procurement Authority to carry out operations aimed at the management. The mission aims to spread knowledge and provide insights into the possibilities of a strategic approach and an effective organisation for purchasing. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-48	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity, although I received some answers to the end that work is under way to make it an obligation to make demands, both labour law requirements and requirements in terms of climate and environment, social considerations and also animal welfare, if I heard correctly. Sounds good. But I still wonder why it is not included in this legislation. For example, why not replace the word During that time, as Gunilla Carlsson says, lots of procurements are going on for very large amounts. Then there is no obligation to make these demands. It'll be about: do it if you want. My second question, to which I did not get an answer at all, at least as I understood it, is why we should not throw out abnormally low tenders. I hope to get answers in this line shift instead.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-50	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the questions. I and Ulla Andersson have previously debated the first issue in this House. I agree with what Mrs Ulla said in her speech that it was important for us to get that change through; I think it was 2017. We would have liked to go a little further, but the House did not share that view. Unfortunately, the House we have today does not share the view that it would be good if we tightened up more clearly. What is said in this bill is that, based on the development of the bill, there was no basis for making those changes. However, as I said, there is work going on at the department. The Ministry's letter about actually further tightening up the requirements is now out. I hope that once the bill is put on the table, there will be a majority in the Swedish Parliament for the future to make demands on more employment law conditions. In the case of low bids, dialogue applies, among other things, as stated in the Government proposal. When low bids are submitted, questions should be raised in order to obtain a proper basis for what enables such a low bid to be submitted. And there is nothing to say that contracting authorities are not in a position to actually reject a proposal which they regard as too low to obtain the quality they demand.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-54	Mr President, I would like to I guess I got some answers, but maybe I didn't really get the answers that I think are needed. Gunilla Carlsson again refers to the fact that there is no preparation data. My question was why there is no basis for processing. However, the preparation has been under way for quite a long time. The referral bodies have also asked for the very demands that we have made. Therefore, it becomes even more strange when you refer to the preparation dossier. Gunilla Carlsson represents the government party. That is why I think it is relevant to ask. Why has it not been included in the preparation that it should simply be a ska-requirement when it comes to the core of employment law conditions, preferably of everything and also pensions and, for example, holidays other than holidays? But I'll try again. Of course, you have an opportunity to reject abnormally low tenders, but you should reject them. If the tender is abnormally low, all warning bells should ring. It is about the working environment and wages of workers. These are dumping and pensions. It makes no sense not to reject it. I would therefore like an answer. They say you can reject it. Yes, you can. But you're supposed to reject it. That should be the most reasonable of all. Why does the legislation in such cases not look like that?
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-57	Mr President, I would like to The first question concerns exactly what I said before, namely that there was no preparation basis. The basis for the preparation of this proposal is the report of the simplification inquiry, which was not included in it. One can of course consider afterwards why this was not included. However, work is now being done here, and I think there will be a bill next year. I really hope so. It is the Government's ambition to continue working on the Ministry letter that has now expired. Furthermore, there is nothing to say that these demands cannot be made. This can certainly be done in a procurement procedure. There is nothing to forbid it, which is important to have with you. Sometimes a picture is given of the fact that you cannot include employment law conditions in a procurement, but you can certainly have that. I would even call for it to be included. With regard to the issue of low bids, reference is made to the existence of a margin for not going to court proceedings and other proceedings. It is of course very important that those who do a procurement really look at why a tender is low. If this is due to worse conditions, wages and the working environment for workers, I think it is absolutely right to say no to the offer and to say that it is far too low. Here, too, contracting authorities and management are thus able to be active themselves and ensure that they do not benefit those who, among other things, do not have good conditions for their employees.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-61	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to debate and decide on changes concerning public procurement. This is technical legislation, and listening to debates like this can be very difficult to follow and understand what different parts and changes mean. I shall make an attempt, which is all one can do, Mr President, to explain to the best of my ability why this legislation is so important to all citizens of Sweden. It affects us all in different ways. For example, it is this legislation that enables or complicates something that we Moderates, among other things, very much push on for, namely more Swedish food on the plate in schools and hospitals. We want to ensure that Swedish-produced food is served and that it contains less antibiotics and has been produced with better conditions for the animals and better respect for the environment. The legislation that we are debating today is what sets the framework and conditions for how this is to be done. Mr President, I would like to We are now taking a few steps to improve and simplify both the contracting authorities and the companies submitting tenders, as well as all the employees working within the companies working on behalf of the public. The proposal before us is a simplified procurement framework. This is, among other things, about what is happening below the thresholds that exist in the European Union. This is a lot of control, isn't it? It will now make things a little easier for companies and, above all, for those who make procurements. What, then, is public procurement? That is really all that the public, such as schools, hospitals and the police, procure. It concerns state authorities, municipalities and regions, that is to say, what is common to us. All of this is covered by different procurement laws. Purchases as much as SEK 1 are also covered in one way or another by this legislation, but depending on how much is involved and what is involved with different provisions in the legislation. Mr President, I would like to All these elements are covered by fairly large and comprehensive regulations, which is basically good because it should ensure transparency and transparency. It should be possible for citizens, businesses and anyone who wants to be able to have a transparent view of what has been taken into account, how the procurement has been conducted and in what different ways it has assessed which company is to receive a tender. This is a huge amount of money, and I'll get back to it. Ensuring that we do not get corruption into the public sector is, of course, what this is all about. Our tax money – everything we work together and pay in taxes – should not end up in places where they should not end up: with those who do not offer the best services at a good price for us citizens. According to the Swedish Procurement Authority's own statistics, the public sector in Sweden procures goods and services for over SEK 800 billion. That's a huge amount of money. That is about one fifth of Sweden's entire gross domestic product, that is, everything that is happening in the country. This means that schools, hospitals, the police and other public actors are buying goods and services at a value as if they were breaking it down to every citizen at 80 000 SEK. It is our – yours – tax money that is at stake. We want this to be done as well as possible so that we can get the most out of our tax money. Procurement is a large part of public sector expenditure. You buy goods and services from other companies. You build schools and hospitals. You buy teaching material or whatever it is. The food for schoolchildren and all that is done in one way or another through public procurement. In the end, this is about us wanting as good things as possible at the best possible price, because then there will be more money left to hire teachers in schools, doctors and nurses in hospitals and so on. We want this to be done as effectively as possible. Mr President, I would like to This is also important because it affects a large part of Swedish business, that is, Swedish competitiveness. Sweden and the public sector is a large market for most of the Swedish companies that do business here in Sweden and have many employees who create wealth and tax revenue. But this also applies to their ability to compete globally. They can use Sweden as a home market to improve various products and services. This is incredibly important. That is why we need transparency and transparency. That's basically why it should be quite complicated. It should be difficult to trade with the public. It is the companies that offer the best goods and services that will be able to deliver it to the public. We very much want it to bring as much benefit as possible to your citizens and to those who need these different services. That's what this is about. Working competition means that we get lower costs and need to use less tax money to procure these things. We also create opportunities for development and innovative solutions, that is, what I talked about earlier when I said that Swedish companies can use the Swedish domestic market to become better and then be able to win procurements in the rest of the world. We want the procurement laws to ensure that corruption does not find its way into the public domain. We do not want invitations and gifts, which may be the simplest and basic way to illustrate this, Mr President, to be what determines which company wins a contract. It should be the company that offers the best to the public that wins, not the one that offers something or otherwise tries to eat in. That's why this needs to be very regulated. Having said that, it is always a balance how complicated it should be. Today we are making some simplifications and improvements. There is one point to the fact that it is complicated and that there is transparency and transparency. But these things make things better. The Christian Democrats have made a very good proposal. Jakob Forssmed is not here today, but he has a colleague who is debating. Left party and Ulla Andersson are in the same area. It is a matter of ensuring that even idea-based operators are able to participate in the public procurement process. These are organisations that are basically not profit-making but have an idea of what they want to do. There are quite a few such organisations that can offer very good services to the public. We now want to ensure that. We are therefore sending from the Riksdag, thanks to the Christian Democrats and the Left Party in this case, a mission to the government to ensure that this is properly evaluated so that these actors are included. Mr President, I would like to In so doing, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-77	Mr President, I would like to When I was in my teens, I had my first contact with public procurement. I worked as a caretaker in a neighboring municipality when a scandal took place. Apparently the municipality had procured art for a large money, and it turned out that the responsible purchaser was related to the artist. At an older age, as a self-employed person, I have sat on the bidders' side of the table. It has taken a lot of time to bid, even in a simplified process, which has been exhausting and resource-intensive for me as an entrepreneur. In addition, my experience has been that simplified procurements can often be pre-arranged, which is not surprising because it will be easier for both parties even if it is fundamentally wrong. One example may be that a purchaser fully adapts its ska- and should-see requirements to the product offered by the supplier. My view was that at times it had been decided in advance who would receive the assignment. It is also something I often hear from colleagues in the industry I have worked in, but of course I do not have the basis to say how common this is. In any case, it meant that I had to work very actively with sales to the public on a daily basis. For me as an entrepreneur it was quite simple, because we had a sales organization. It is not all companies that have it, at least not to the same extent, which, as I see it, distorts the balance and competition a little bit. The fact that it is difficult for small businesses to participate in the match has been known for a long time, and this shows not least the statistics. Although the number of SMEs making tenders has increased marginally in recent years, it represents only 14% of the total number of small enterprises. The figure has remained at approximately the same level since 2008, according to the Swedish Agency for Growth. These are facts worth taking seriously. In more than 200 out of 290 municipalities, small businesses account for the largest share of municipal tax revenues. It is income that finances children's school, sick people's care and elderly care. In fact, small businesses with up to 49 employees account for 99% of all companies in Sweden and create four out of five jobs in our labour market. I think they should also have reasonable conditions for taking part in public procurement. To some extent, I believe that the system is not properly adapted to a smooth and simple routine in which small businesses can easily participate in the procurement process. A partial solution to this could be a coherent platform for all procurement, including direct procurement, where municipalities advertise and post-announce. It would create coherence, provide transparency and also provide an opportunity for purchasers to relate to other municipalities' purchases in order to avoid waste of tax revenue. In this area, Finland is a very positive example. They have a government database where you can go into real time and see how much has been procured. One concern that is often highlighted is the lack of transparency linked to direct procurement. Finland's example could also solve parts of the knot. Since the Competition Authority has been collecting data since 1 January this year, we are not getting the full profit, I mean, when direct procurements do not need to be advertised with this proposal. Then we should look at how direct procurement can be controlled for the sake of taxpayers. The work on regulatory simplification needs to be given priority to small businesses in general, and this also applies to public procurement. This is important because public procurement affects so much of the welfare and services we enjoy every day. Mr President, I would like to When you look at the Government's proposal in Annex 2 to raise the limit on direct procurement, some concerns have arisen, as several of the referral bodies have also expressed. That is also something we have heard here during the debate. At first, as a small company, there is often no resources and time to monitor procurement more closely. Various profit-making players have collected advertisements that companies could then subscribe to to create an overview of the procurements that come onto the market. Now that simplified procurement raises its threshold, it is becoming more difficult for smaller companies to create that overview, with certain risks for small businesses. A company like my own may benefit from it, but there are also small businesses that are disadvantaged by it. An industry that is likely to be affected is companies that work with art and culture. They often consist of individual entrepreneurs who are unable to do business with the public, because they lack the resources to maintain relations with municipalities and authorities across the country. One company that works with this is Konstpool, which has built its business around collecting procurement advertisements and communicating between the public and artists. They have done so successfully. They sound in an open e-mail health: Without advertising it will be difficult or impossible to find where cultural and art procurement takes place, especially given that cultural creators work all over the country. Although there is a law to post-announce, this is not done today, and the Competition Authority does not have the resources to follow up. Tens of thousands of small businesses in culture are at risk of being treated differently from other small businesses in other sectors. The Government's proposal goes against the principle of equal treatment between different actors. Advertising obligations and equal treatment are the basis for transparency and transparency. The removal of demands has laid the foundations for friendship corruption, lower quality and higher costs. The second aspect I would like to highlight concerns precisely what Konstpool writes – that the risk of corruption and conflict risks increasing with less opportunities for transparency. This is an aspect that several consultation bodies highlight in the bill. This was also what I experienced as an 18-year-old in my first public service work. On page 154 of the bill, the government responds to the consultation bodies' concerns about increased corruption and conflict of interest: our government intends, however, to closely monitor developments in this area and, if necessary, to come back with proposals for accompanying measures. Furthermore, the government refers to the obligation to post-announce, which I think may be a bit of a blow in the air, because it is too late when the deal is already made and it is also unclear whether this is being followed by purchasers. The government's response does not provide full security in the matter, but we welcome the government's intention to follow up on the shortcomings that are likely to increase. After all, corruption is something that we all want to combat in this House. It is to be welcomed that the committee should issue an announcement which meets our opinion. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-92	Mr President, I would like to Here in Sweden it happens quite often that the concepts of state and society are used as synonyms. We hear it in the political debate and in the media. Society should take responsibility, someone might say. But what really means is that the state should take responsibility. Society has failed, says someone else, when what is actually meant is that the state has failed. What has been forgotten by those who say this is that society is so much bigger than the state. Society consists of three parts: the public, that is, the state and the municipalities, the business community and civil society. There are three parts that are all important and that all can contribute to a better society. But when you look at what it looks like among the providers of welfare – health care, school and care – it seems that there are no three sectors at all. It is 97% of the well-being that is carried out by public or private actors. Only 3% of the welfare is carried out by idea-based organisations. Here is Sweden in a class by itself. When we compare with other countries in our vicinity, it becomes very clear. In Norway, the idea-based organisations make up 8% of welfare, in Denmark 14% and in Germany as much as 49%. According to the organisation Famna, which brings together well-being actors, these actors want to be involved in taking greater responsibility for welfare. The idea-based organisations can really contribute as a performer to the welfare. These actors often have a unique approach to societal problems, which cannot be achieved by a public or private actor. When freedom of choice for the individual has increasingly come to be about a choice between a major commercial operator or the municipality's activities, we Christian Democrats believe that more needs to be done to strengthen ideas-based actors as welfare drivers. Mr President, I would like to With this bill, steps are taken in the right direction. That is something we welcome Christian Democrats. But we must also ensure that developments are moving in the right direction. Therefore, in a motion, we proposed that there should be a follow-up to ensure that the changes made have an impact on the potential of ideas-driven operators to win contracts in public procurements. It is gratifying that a united Committee on Finance now wishes to address this announcement to the government. If it is shown in this follow-up that the changes do not have the desired effect on the ideas-driven operators, it should be considered whether to exclude altogether procurement of certain welfare services below the EU threshold from the LOU. This could bring about a change for the sector. The LOU is then replaced by general principles of administrative law, such as the principle of objectivity and the prohibition of favouring individual traders. This was a proposal in the Palett study for a strengthened civil society, but the Simplification study also mentions the possibility of making such an exception. If it turns out that the simplifications that are now being made are not enough, we Christian Democrats believe that this path needs to be tried again. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that today we are taking steps in a direction that strengthens the idea-based sector. It is a good thing that the Committee on Finance is also proposing approval of the Christian Democrats' motion to evaluate the impact of the changes on the idea-based sector. At the same time, much more needs to be done. We Christian Democrats are still waiting for the government to present proposals for how non-profit organisations can better interact with the public within the framework of what is commonly called the IOP, idea-based public partnership. The issue has been investigated, and it has now been almost two years since the government received that investigation. Here the government needs to act urgently. A robust structure for collaboration between public and non-profit actors needs to be created around, for example, social activities, not least in order for more municipalities and other public actors to have the courage to make use of it. Society should take responsibility, it is said, and in the idea-based sector we have a part of society that really wants to take responsibility. However, the fact that it looks as it does today is not due to the failure of society. This is because the state has failed to release the idea-based part of society. Today, an important step is being taken to change this. I support the committee's proposal.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-102	Mr President, I would like to Swedish preparedness is in an expansive phase. Right now, the biggest investments in both military and civilian defence are being made in many decades. The generally deteriorating world situation, as well as the coronapndemin, demonstrates the importance of broadly strengthening our preparedness. An important component of this work is the special appropriation, the so-called 2:4 grant, which amounts to a little more than SEK 1 billion per year and which is intended to finance measures to strengthen our crisis preparedness and ability to manage crises and their consequences. Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the part of the grant that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, benefits as a contribution to authorities at national and regional level for various types of development projects. It is a welcome review that the Swedish National Audit Office has done. I'm gonna make a few knocks. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that there is a risk that project grants will be used to finance ordinary activities. Therefore, if it is used for activities that should be considered as part of the ordinary business, it will not be the reinforcement that it was intended to be. The review also highlights another rather classic problem in the project context, namely how to take care of the many times valuable insights that have emerged during the project period. The Swedish National Audit Office also highlights clear advantages with the project form as such. It is particularly valuable for creating synergies and bringing authorities and organisations together. It is enough, Mr President, to say forest fires and pandemics to demonstrate the importance of authorities being able and willing to work together. But then cooperation is required, and here 2:4 funds can really make a positive difference. The most important conclusion of the review, which is very easy to sign, is that we in Parliament and the Government should ensure that the relevant authorities have stable basic funding. That is exactly what is going on. It is no secret that Sweden did little for a long time when it comes to our civil defence. It was only with the focus decision in 2015 and the renewed total defence planning that the ship so slowly began to turn around and civil defence was once again put on the agenda. If the previous focus period marked this restart, it is with the current focus decision that we really put the shovel in the ground, resource set and make sure to get the workshop. Counted from this year until 2025, civil defence will be added SEK 3.8 billion. This year 1 billion will be added, and then the contributions will gradually increase year by year. Why, then, Mr President, do I choose to mention this in a debate on the use of project funds? Because it is important to have a background and a context on how we have politically viewed civilian preparedness issues. We are now leaving behind the early 21st century peace-time rationality thinking. Instead, we plan and resource based on an understanding that Sweden is not a protected island. Both monitoring and control of 2:4 funds can certainly be improved, and MSB is currently actively working on this issue. But in order to really get to grips with the preparedness debt that we in Sweden have built up for a long time, increased resources are needed. The most important thing when we look forward is that county boards and security agencies receive solid basic funding so that they can really work on what is at the core of their preparedness missions. That is precisely what billions of subsidies into the sector are intended to achieve. Of course, project funding should not be required in order to complete a main task. Mr President, I would like to Finally, in this report, there is a declaration that there should be a review of the use of the 2:4 budget. Now we have on the table the Swedish National Audit Office's review which, by all standards, may be described as just independence. We also have the government's response, which broadly welcomes this review. In addition – and this is perhaps the most important of all – today we have a completely different political orientation in terms of civil defence and crisis preparedness than was the case during the period on which significant parts of the Swedish National Audit Office's audit are based. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-W5jxED6m4nr47hKLU82nXV	Mr President, I would like to The debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on project grants. I request the approval of reservation 2. I get a lot of questions, both in email and in other ways: What are you really talking about when it comes to project grants? It can be a little hard to understand for those who are listening to this and who do not have the insight that we have about the details. It is really about how much money, how many billions, is allocated to the authority MSB. Other authorities can then apply for grants for various projects on the way to strengthening crisis preparedness in Sweden. That's what it's all about. How, then, are these contributions used by the various authorities? That's what the National Audit Office is looking at. We have read the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of how the money is used, and it renders this debate. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office criticises how the grants are used. Although we now have this important debate, I am affected when I get up in the morning and read the paper. What's going on? I'm reading about a policeman getting kicked in the head. It has nothing to do with this debate. I read about a woman who has been raped and beaten in Tantolunden last night. What a society we live in! But it is not, as I said, this debate should be about. The criticism addressed by the Swedish National Audit Office concerns shortcomings in the effectiveness of the instruments, i.e. how the authorities spend their money. The authorities also have their own resources to act in the areas of preparedness increases and crisis preparedness efficiency. At the same time, they are asking for money from MSB to strengthen projects in crisis preparedness management. The Swedish National Audit Office has criticised that this is not clear. It cannot be seen that contributions are directly linked to the increase in emergency preparedness and the action plans for the various authorities. The Swedish National Audit Office has thus expressed criticism and believes that this is not to be completed in all parts. The Swedish Democrats ask the question: Are the project grants requested by the authorities in any way linked to resilience? This was the document we produced, Mr President, concerning civil defence. Then came Värnkraft – The focus of security policy and the design of military defence in 2021 – 2025. Where's the connection? Is there such a connection? I can't find anything written about a connection. But there should be one, because the document on resilience was very good. Well, Mr President, MSB also grants itself project grants. To what extent and to what extent? I'm sure it's for good. But should it be like this – that MSB itself sits and decides how much they need to develop something? There are project grants that are decided on by different authorities, but after a while the grants will end. The Swedish National Audit Office has paid attention to what happens then. Well, the project that's been going on is stopping. There are no funds available for further work. This will result in a loss of the project's effectiveness and the expertise that has been developed for what is to be implemented in the form of emergency preparedness measures. It's gone. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that you follow up your own funding and decide whether the county administrative board should continue to have money for the operations. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore makes a number of recommendations. How does MSB follow up on the proper use of money by the various authorities? If you read the regulatory letters that the government writes to the respective authorities about how they should do it, you see that they write that the work should be closely followed up. There have been criticisms of this already before, in the review for 2019 – 2020. So there are criticisms every year that the work should be closely followed up. You may want to penetrate this accuracy. How thorough are the authorities? We believe that the Swedish democrats must coordinate their activities. Coordination is a word that almost only the Swedish democrats use. Each authority has its own responsibilities and drainpipes, Mr President. But who coordinates? The former MSB chief said, "We don't need anyone pointing with their whole hand." But now he's doing something else. We need to coordinate our operations. Someone has to point with the whole hand. Someone must steer the authorities, Mr President, towards resilience and a joint action plan for Sweden to deal with crisis preparedness. It doesn't exist today. I usually take a parable. I can now see that I am going over the speaking time, Mr President, but I hope it is at the general request. I usually tell you what it's like on a football field. When I was playing football and they thought the judge was wrong, they gave you a statement. It wasn't a warning, it wasn't a deportation, but the judge said to me, hold... and he said something else. It went a little bit further. If I repeated what I had said, I got a yellow card. So the event itself was not enough for it from the beginning, but now it was a repetition. The third time I said that, I was expelled. The individual event itself did not lead to it, but it was the repetition. When the Swedish National Audit Office returns with criticism that it has addressed for a couple of years, it is thus repeated. What are the consequences? Reasonably, the heads of the authorities should be appointed on the basis of competence and not on the basis of a party book. You have to get real bosses who are leaders. A boss can be appointed, but a leader can never be appointed. You have to have criteria when you hire the bosses so you get leaders who can also be bosses. The combination is unbeatable: a leader and a manager in the same person. The Swedish Democrats demand that there should be action plans that are coordinated for Sweden. You should review the regulatory letters, which are therefore orders to the authorities. How to follow up on the work? There shall be continuous follow-up of how to achieve the objectives and how to use the money. It is not being done in a good way today. Mr President, I would like to When we see that the various authorities are growing and growing, it is easy to imagine that there are simply too many chiefs and too few Indians in the organization. Everyone sits and discusses through their computers and meets at different conferences. Nothing concrete happens. Coordinate!
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-128	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's emergency preparedness needs to be strengthened. I think we all agree on that. In the course of the pandemic, we have seen shortcomings in our capacity for strategic foresight, coordination and management of major crises. We now also see this in the Swedish National Audit Office's review of appropriations 2:4 Crisis preparedness. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether this appropriation is an effective instrument to strengthen the authorities' work on crisis preparedness and civil defence. The audit covers the part of the allocation that MSB benefits as a contribution to national and regional authorities for various development projects. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office is that there are shortcomings in the effectiveness of the instrument, which means that the project grants risk not being the strengthening of crisis preparedness as it is intended. I think it's serious. Mr President, I would like to There is indeed a need for comprehensive, radical reforms to strengthen civilian preparedness in a number of areas such as responsibility, management and coordination, but also in matters such as crisis legislation, business interaction and stockpiling. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government consider what the grant should actually be used for. I like these reports. I think it is good to have constructive suggestions on how to improve. It's a shame the government doesn't take them better. Furthermore, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends MSB to develop the follow-up of projects and to more clearly motivate and communicate the grounds for its decisions on the award of project grants. Sweden should be well equipped to face future crises, whether they are pandemics, supply chain disruptions or climate-related events such as forest fires and floods. We're not really there today. Good emergency preparedness also lays the foundation for civil defence. The demands of war must be dealt with. If Sweden is able to handle the demands that the war can make on Sweden, we are also better equipped when the crisis comes. Against this background, it is worrying that the Swedish National Audit Office's review of project grants from grant 2:4 Crisis preparedness has revealed these shortcomings. The project grants that MSB benefits amount to around SEK 500 million per year. That's a lot of money. They shall strengthen society's overall preparedness and ability to deal with serious crises and contribute to the creation or maintenance of a fundamental defence capability. The review now reveals a number of shortcomings in the management of project grants. This means that it is difficult for MSB to distinguish between measures that should be financed from ordinary appropriations and measures that can be financed from appropriations 2:4. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that this is a sign that many authorities mainly finance their work with the help of project grants. So there is no continuity in the whole thing, which means that what you do also becomes very wobbly. It is particularly remarkable that MSB allocates project money under Facility 2:4 to MSB's own development projects. It's getting a little weird. In its letter to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Government points out that MSB is currently working on further improving its processes for applications, reviews and assessments of both its own projects and those of other authorities. We Moderates do not think it is enough and are pleased that the committee supports the need for an independent review of how the entire project grant process can be more effective, transparent and long-term. This is important. It is tax money we are talking about, tax money that we have received because a lot of people are working and paying their taxes. That money must be handled with care. It is about reviewing that project money should not replace regular grants, making suggestions on how grants to MSB's own projects can be managed, and developing proposals for better processes for monitoring and evaluating how project grants are used to achieve long-term results, so that we do not need to get such comments from the Swedish National Audit Office again. As I said, this is about tax revenue. It is not our money but money that has been earned by the citizens of Sweden and that they have paid in taxes. We must take good care of this money. We need to prioritise the right things and follow up the results carefully so that it becomes what we have planned.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-139	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish Defence Committee is debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on project grants from grant 2:4 Crisis preparedness. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal as a whole and I am pleased to see that there is a majority in the Committee on the motion of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to Now that we are gathered in the Committee on Defence and are going to debate emergency preparedness, let me first remind you that we are living in a strengthened security policy situation. As we stand here debating, there is a war going on in Europe, in Eastern Ukraine. About ten people die a month, and we see that Russia has set up at 100 000 soldiers towards the border with Ukraine. We also see how the leadership in Belarus allows Russian bombers to fly regularly towards the border with Poland and Lithuania. This is a strengthened security policy situation. When we talk about defence, it is about both military and civil defence having to work. They are two sides of the same coin. That is why it is so important that we have a functioning and effective military and civil defence. The Swedish National Audit Office is a very important authority that does important audits. This has been done several times in the area of the Committee on Defence. Last, for example, was the development of the army, which made important points. It is very important that we look forward, but we also need to see how it has worked backwards in order to be able to correct things and make it more effective. What this is about, as the previous speaker has also explained, is that there are indications that many authorities are financing their work mainly through the project grant. After all, civil defence has been closed down in principle, and when we rebuild it, it is important, as we have pointed out in both defence preparation and defence decisions, that it should be built up so that it can withstand both a crisis and, at worst, a war. Then it is very important that we also have the full funding order. Our authorities should be able to apply for project grants, but the regular operations must be solved in another way. That is precisely what this criticism is about. It is therefore important that the committee agrees that an independent review is needed.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-145	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 2 and, otherwise, for the approval of the committee's proposals. We Social Democrats do not fear major political challenges. And the supply of skills in schools and healthcare is undoubtedly a major challenge, a challenge that needs to be met with a variety of actions. One example is the targeted commission on the expansion of training places for shortage professions to higher education institutions and universities that the Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed. We'll get back to that in a minute. Mr President, I would like to Education is for us Social Democrats the most important tool for developing the opportunities of both people and society. We are investing widely in the expansion of more training places of many different types. Within the Knowledgelift, the places of education have quadrupled to 160 000 places in vocational adult and polytechnic colleges as well as colleges and universities. As a Member of Parliament responsible for preschool, I have during the autumn had the opportunity to work in children's groups at several preschools. There I have met some of those who are now training in these places – young people who tell me with bright eyes that they finally got into their dream education as teachers in preschool. A large number of places are an important basis for more people to be able to educate themselves. And every place is a life dream for the one who gets it. That it does not solve the problem of skills supply alone, we all understand, but that is not a reason not to use the tool more places. I would like to take this opportunity to talk a little about some other measures that have been taken. In order to succeed in providing skills to important professions in schools and health care, the conditions for the work to be carried out must, in particular, be good. More resources and more colleagues are needed so that Sweden's teachers and nurses can start witnessing about a working environment where you can see every child, every student and every patient. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democratic-led government has provided large resources to municipalities and regions, those which are mainly employers of the professions we are talking about today. Since this government took office, the number of welfare workers has increased to 100,000. General state grants to municipalities and regions have increased by tens of billions of SEK. But more is needed. There is also a need for municipalities and regions to use the additional state subsidies for what they are for: to strengthen resources for, for example, preschool and maternity care. Let's stop for a little bit at maternity care as an example. In recent weeks we have been reached almost daily by alarm reports about the situation in maternity care in Stockholm. In Danderyd Hospital, 41 out of 97 midwives have resigned in protest against working conditions. At Södersjukhusten 42 midwives have resigned since the turn of the year. What has the moderate-led regional management done? Well, for years the money has been put on high rather than providing the resources needed and provided by the government. Lately, in some form of panic, a dizzy regional management has now gone out with a proposal for more resources, but not enough. It is also unclear why it was not seen that this money was needed when it just a few months ago presented its draft budget in the Stockholm Region. Similar resource shortages are seen in Västra Götaland, from which I come. It is Sweden's second largest healthcare region – also the moderate-controlled region. How can we attract more people to become nurses and midwives with the working conditions that our M- and KD-led regions offer today? Mr President, I would like to Back to the heart of this debate. Has it been good for the supply of skills to provide targeted development assignments for shortage professions in healthcare and schools to higher education institutions and universities? And how has follow-up worked? During the years 2015 – 2017, the number of programme beginners in the programmes covered increased by 2,100 students. The goal was higher, but an increase of over 2,000 beginners is no small increase. There are another 2,000 life dreams coming true. It is clear from the Swedish National Audit Office's report that the universities have used the funds that could not be used directly for the programmes identified to strengthen the training places in other deficiency professions. It sounds to me like a wise act. The Government's letter provides a clear overview of how assignments to higher education institutions and universities are monitored. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the Government has regularly followed up on how the expansions at higher education institutions are progressing. Follow-up is thus carried out annually through the University's annual reports and through the University Chancellor's Office's compilation of statistics and follow-up. It also takes place through a public authority dialogue with the higher education institutions. Furthermore, each year the budget bill presents the development of higher education institutions and universities with detailed descriptions of how the number of beginners and graduates develops over time. It is somewhat unclear to me why the Swedish National Audit Office in this case makes a detailed recommendation and why M and KD choose to lift it up in their follow-up motion. We Social Democrats want more general governance and less detailed control. It often sounds like the Moderates share this view of management and control. But apparently they don't in this case. Here it is suddenly important to deviate from the overall way of following up colleges and universities in order to address a detailed call from the Riksdag. Nor is it clear what information the exercisers consider to be lacking in the extensive follow-up that is carried out annually. We Social Democrats in the Education Committee fully share the government's view. The follow-up system should not be abandoned, and existing follow-up provides comprehensive and clear information in the field of skills provision for both school and healthcare. Mr President, I would like to The issue of more places for lack of vocational training is only part of the important supply of skills. We Social Democrats see any additional student who chooses to study to nurse, teacher, preschool teacher or midwife as extremely important – not as, as the right-wing athletes describe it, a meaningless employment measure. However, we also see that it is fundamentally improved conditions for the professionals in these shortage professions that are a far more important measure to overcome the skills shortage. In particular, the moderate-led regions are responsible for the answer.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-165	Mr President, I would like to There is a major shortage in several licence professions in health care, in fact in all categories. There are differences between the regions, but one assessment is that there are up to 40 000 nurses missing. According to a study drawn up by SCB against 36,000 teachers, there is a risk that one fifth of those working in school are not legitimised. The same study shows that there is a shortage of up to 45 000 preschool teachers. There are also some shortcomings in different engineering professions. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the targeted expansion mission during 2014– 2019. Possibly we have read the review in different ways in different parties. We see that there are quite serious complaints being made. The expansion mission has not been successful. It is therefore a question of bringing about extensions in the shortage professions. It is not a question of increasing the number of higher education places in general. This may be a good thing, but this was a targeted mission to increase the expansion of the shortage professions. Therefore, M and KD wrote a follow-up motion. I am very pleased that we now have two announcements, which I naturally support. I also support reservation number 3. The fact that we want to do a detailed review, as Paula Örn calls it, is, of course, because the mission has not been completed. If it had been successful, we wouldn't have had to do this. It is important that there is a follow-up, so it is strange that we do not want to support our call to do one. Even if you feel that you are satisfied, it is important to do a follow-up to see if you are really satisfied. It is strange that we do not agree with our call for follow-up, but we obviously support it in our reservation. If you're going to like it in a shortage profession, it's important that there's trained staff. It will be difficult if there are untrained staff, such as unauthorized teachers. The presence of trained staff increases the chances of staying in an education. Another concern is that there has not been a discussion with the higher education institutions about this extension to see what opportunities the higher education institutions have. It is also important to get throughput, i.e. that students complete their education. Otherwise, unfortunately, they will not be trained for lack of jobs. We think the money has been spent on the wrong things. The education at the university has been expanded, but not in the deficiency professions. It has not been ensured that there will be increased throughput or educated students in the shortage professions. I hope, of course, that Parliament can support our announcements and also our reservations. There must be a follow-up to such a clear extension mission.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-175	Mr President, I would like to The point of my speech is that there is a very solid follow-up of assignments to universities and universities, which also includes the targeted assignment. In addition, there is a comprehensive follow-up of skills shortages in various professional areas – school, health care and so on. We do not really understand why, as you would like, we should then pick out the specific task of preschool, healthcare and community building and look at it in isolation rather than at the general, broad follow-up, with an incredible amount of information, and the overall follow-up of competence. What information does the honourable Member think does not exist? It is not true that there has been no discussion with the universities. There are annual university dialogues and other follow-up, and it is also clear from the letter that the assignment has been adjusted over time to meet the different conditions of the different higher education institutions. This dialogue is and has been conducted on a continuous basis.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-177	Mr President, I would like to The review has taken place for five years. If one had been satisfied during these five years, this critical review would not have been necessary. There has certainly been a follow-up, but it has not been enough. It has not improved in these five years. Five years is still a fairly long time for a student, who may be finished teaching during these five years. That is why we want a clearer follow-up. We think all follow-up is good. But when a mission doesn't work, you have to focus on that mission. That is why we want an extra follow-up here, but we think that all follow-up is good. All missions that are to be carried out cost money and will also lead to something. We therefore think that follow-up is very good. That is why I am surprised that Mr S. does not want a follow-up of precisely this, which, unfortunately, has failed. When it comes to dialogue with higher education institutions, they themselves say that they have not had the opportunity to carry out this task. Then you must have a dialogue with the higher education institutions and ask how the requirements can be met. It is about education where there have been shortcomings for five years all along. Then you have to look at how you can solve it.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-180	Mr President, I would like to Let's do it one more time. We are also in favour of follow-up, and extensive follow-up is carried out. On the other hand, additional administrative details appear to be very unnecessary, particularly in this case. When it comes to why this targeted assignment and perhaps detail management is important in this case, it is about increasing the pressure on universities to prioritise these programmes. I'm a teacher myself. There is a shortage of qualified staff in teacher training. At the time, I believe that it was about 1 per cent of the fixed faculty funds that went to research and doctoral studies for teacher education, which is the university's and higher education institutions' largest professional education. I do not know the exact figures today, but something tells me that it has not changed very much. Therefore, we need to create pressure on universities to prioritise these programmes.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-182	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we are in favour of there being well-trained and highly qualified teachers in teacher education. We are also the first to say that we may need to improve teacher training and see new approaches in education. Perhaps we should also have independent teacher training. We certainly think that would be good. The concern is, however, that dialogue is being conducted but that it does not lead to results. Then I think we need to deepen the dialogue, and that is what we want to do. That is why we also want clear follow-up in this particular area, but also in the wider area. There's a lot of other shortage jobs. Here we talk about health professionals and teachers, but there are of course also many other professions where we need follow-up. But this mission is about precisely these shortages, and here we need a clear, targeted follow-up.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-184	Mr President, I would like to First of all, allow me to endorse reservation number 3. The government's investment in training places for shortage professions is basically good. Training people into professions that benefit society as a whole and that are needed is basically a welcome initiative. Irrespective of what has been suggested here in the speaker's chair earlier in this debate, there is probably no difference in views between the parties in this regard. We all think it is good to make that kind of effort. But it is not the general policy that the National Audit Office has to review, but certain, special things. It is about how effectively these training places have been managed and how they have been managed. The Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of serious shortcomings regarding these additional training places. The Swedish National Audit Office says that it is not only because it allocates funds and orders that some higher education institutions should add additional places of study are given that they are assigned at all or that it works all the way. That is why we need to have a follow-up and some sort of check that it really works properly. One problem you may encounter is that students may not have an interest in applying for the places. There shall be an interest in searching the sites to make it work effectively. We must have teachers with the right skills to be employed; that can also be a problem. There are many pieces of the puzzle throughout the chain that have to work for the bets to be effective. There has been a serious breach here, as the Swedish National Audit Office also states in its report. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that a probable reason why these educational efforts have not worked satisfactorily is that it has failed in the dialogue with the relevant higher education institutions. Either dialogues have not taken place or they have been inadequate and therefore not sufficient. When the government makes investments of this size, the least you can ask for is that it check in advance that they will work and that the universities have the opportunity to carry out the courses and that it is followed up properly. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that this is not the case. According to the audit, the most successful initiatives have concerned engineering training. This is perhaps a much-needed signal to the government to permanently increase the number of places in engineering training. There is a social need for these courses, and there is an interest from prospective students in applying for the courses. In its answer to the Swedish National Audit Office, the Government writes that the lack of teachers in schools and staff in... health care is... not possible to solve simply by educating more people. It requires that the attractiveness of the professions increases with good... working conditions. This is absolutely true. Unfortunately, we can see that the government's policy has had quite the opposite effect. The status of the teaching profession has steadily declined over time, and the working environment is in some places, not least in vulnerable areas, under any criticism. Here a new policy is needed by a new government to reverse the negative trend. Another aspect of the current review is that our education system is not really functional. If our higher education system worked better, these specific training efforts would not be necessary. The government has all the tools to use to control the number of places in colleges, but the government is apparently not effective enough in this area either. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the Government's special training efforts especially because monitoring and evaluation have not been carried out in an appropriate manner. Nor has the objective been sufficient. The government must, of course, set clear, evaluable targets and monitor and evaluate the investments made, especially in view of the costs involved. Serious evaluations allow you to improve future investments and adjust mistakes. That should be a matter of course for this type of temporary investment. We can regret that it has apparently not really come to the representatives of the government parties that this is also necessary.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-194	Mr President, I would like to I wonder a little about the honourable Member and I have read the same follow-up. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, expansion assignments are largely clearly designed. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Government has regularly followed up on how the expansions at higher education institutions are progressing. ..................................................... It's pretty clear to me. It is about cutting the sausage on the other joint and doing a specific training of certain details in the respective follow-up. We and the government believe that this is not appropriate. It is much better to have a broad follow-up approach and look at the entire development within the university. These are missions that already exist. You have to explain clearly how it goes with beginners' students, the number of graduates, i.e. throughput, and so on. Giving another charge just for the sake of the matter is unnecessary. It is interesting that the honourable Member is so concerned about the situation in schools when the Swedish Democrats, when the opportunity is given in this House, regularly vote on budgets that give less resources to municipalities and regions.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-197	Mr President, I would like to It is a little bit clear from that last point that the Social Democrats have not really understood the whole point of school policy. Just because you throw out money does not mean that you have the effect that you want or the results that are needed. We can spend so much money on the school sector, but if we do nothing about the content or follow up that it works effectively, we can continue to evict money without it getting any results thereafter. This is a clear flaw in social democratic policy. It is not possible to balance the requirements of content in education with the costs of education. We have seen this for years, and it must only continue here. Well, we've read the same follow-up. The problem I hear in what the honourable Member is saying is that you do not want a specific examination of these very funds, but you want a general follow-up of the education sector. It's very remarkable. The government turns on the big drum and says that you should invest money in certain educations in the shortage professions to get more people who can get into work. That is quite right in itself. But the fact that we do not want to make a specific follow-up of how this money has been spent – how tax funds have been used for these particular training courses – is most remarkable. Such a follow-up could, of course, suggest that in some professions you need to invest differently, do more and have more dialogue with universities and higher education institutions, while in other areas you already have an attractiveness and then you can expand them even more. I find it most remarkable that the Social Democrats do not want such follow-up.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-200	Mr President, I would like to I have two points to make. The Swedish-Democrat Member does not think there is a need for more resources for school. I disagree. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that since 2018, the University Chancellor's Office has a special follow-up mission to provide in-depth information on the dimensioning of certain programmes. Within the framework of the assignment, the University Chancellor's Office follows the specialisations of higher education institutions and universities in engineering education, teacher education and specialist nursing education. The assignment is reported annually. There is therefore all the follow-up that is reasonably required to obtain the information requested by the honourable Member.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-203	Mr President, I would like to Paula Örn is a fairly new member of the Education Committee, so I welcome her to the debate. But I see that she has already gone through something that I think is a compulsory Social Democratic introductory course for educational debates. You have to reverse and turn the arguments that you get in every context. Now Paula Örn says she hears that the Swedish Democrats do not want to invest more resources in schools. That's not what I said. I said you can't just throw money at the school if you don't make sure the money is used effectively. More money will not solve the problems if the money is not used properly. That is precisely why it is important to follow up that every penny of tax spent on education is also used for what it should be for. Just because the costs are increased and the number of training places is increased does not mean that it has a beneficial effect. It doesn't have to be, and that's why we have to find out. This money could be invested in other important things that really make sure that people get the right level of education and are prepared and ready for a future career. I regret that after all these years the Social Democrats are still stomping in the same shoes and in the same place and do not recognise the need for monitoring and evaluation of how tax money is used.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-207	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 2, which is supported by the Center Party. We are today debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on targeted expansion assignments to universities and higher education institutions. It strongly criticises the Social Democratic Government's development policy within the university during the previous term of office. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the government's control of the expansion assignments has not contributed to a significant increase in higher education graduates in the identified shortage professions. In the areas and programmes covered by development assignments during 2015 – 2017, the number of programme beginners has increased by more than 2,100 instead of just over 4,800 beginners for whom the assignments total. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that in most cases the development assignments have been aimed at training courses where the primary problem is not an inadequate educational supply. Instead, there have been too few applicants for the courses, a limited range of places of placement, the VFU, or a lack of qualified teachers. Targeted expansion assignments can, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, be a relevant and effective measure in cases where there are many qualified applicants while the higher education institutions have a capacity to expand. However, on the training courses where there are structural obstacles, such as low search pressure, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government should consider other measures or a different design of the expansion assignments. In addition, the report highlights the lack of dialogue with higher education institutions. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the institutions' data prior to the 2017 expansion shows that eight higher education institutions had submitted requests to expand other education programmes, such as courses for professional teachers, special teachers or special educators, but this did not satisfy the government. On the other hand, for the 2018 extension of urban development programmes, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that some of the higher education institutions that had explicitly replied that due to too low search pressure or lack of teachers they did not want to expand anyway received an extension assignment. The Swedish National Audit Office has also studied the extension of the teacher education programmes in which some higher education institutions received extended assignments in 2017 and can conclude that in some cases higher education institutions have received extended assignments on the same education without taking into account the obvious difficulties of the higher education institutions to reach the goals of the previous year. Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that there has been such a low level of dialogue on the part of the government with the higher education institutions and that in some cases they have also been given assignments contrary to their wishes. The fact that we have a well-executed objective analysis of the Government's expansion mission is welcome, and that is a prerequisite for ensuring that this will have an effective effect. Such an analysis should be communicated to the Riksdag. The committee's report therefore contains an announcement on this. I would like to take this opportunity to say that more action is needed in the future. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is an important part of moving forward in the continued debate on higher education policy. How do we meet the challenges posed by several shortages in different sectors? In this major challenge, higher education institutions must be given the opportunity to contribute to the future based on their prerequisites, which depend on search prints, access to PhD teachers and other parts. In this way, we can create the conditions to meet the great challenge we have with the matching problem in the labour market and the needs of companies and the public sector for staff. This must be achieved by reducing the level of detail. It is about making training courses but also jobs where there is today a major shortage more attractive for people to seek. In this way you can help increase the search pressure. It is also a question of finding more PhD teachers who can help train more people in these sectors. And within the framework of the research policy proposal that the Center Party also participated in the negotiations, several worthwhile and important initiatives are made within this part so that the universities can have the opportunity to educate more to the extent possible. Finally, it is also a matter of ensuring that the flow of higher education is improved so that those who start an education also complete the education and can enter the labour market, screaming for skills and where more people are needed. It is then a question of higher education institutions getting better opportunities to work with the throughput so that more people enter the labour market.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-218	Mr President, I would like to Today we have a shortage of trained people in several professions, in schools and in health care. But this also applies to other social education programmes, such as engineering training. For many of these occupational groups, working conditions need to be improved so that the skilled remain in the profession. Today, too many people leave both health care and school due to pay or health and safety problems. The midwives are the latest example. Many believe that there is no shortage of midwives, but their work situation is not sustainable, and in the long term we risk a shortage here too. There is no shortage now, but many leave the profession. There is also a real shortage of many other professions linked to the fact that too few have been trained before or to the fact that too few have chosen to apply for the courses, which in turn is also linked to the work environment and pay situation. We in the Left Party can see that many educations need to be spread across the country in order for students who have difficulty moving far for studies to have the opportunity to study and also in order not to drain the country from the educated – many choose to stay in the place where they have studied or near it. Education throughout the country is important for us to be able to get more educated in school and health care. Here, as this report shows, is the problem of finding teachers. The teaching institutions have great freedom to direct their own educational offerings. Therefore, regular efforts are made on targeted deployment assignments. The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed the targeted development assignments that were decided in 2015– 2019. Not all missions have been successful. Parts of the extension assignments have been in areas where the primary problem is not an inadequate range of education from higher education institutions but too few applicants, a limited range of places for operational education or a lack of qualified teachers. The Swedish National Audit Office makes several suggestions on how to improve targeted expansion assignments. These are proposals that the government has largely taken on board. For the Left Party, it is a priority that it should be possible to train for example as a teacher or nurse throughout the country and that higher education institutions have the skills needed for the education to be good. The lack of qualified teachers needs to be remedied, and skewed recruitment needs to be broken so that more people go to higher education. However, there are no such proposals in this report or in the committee's report. As pointed out in the report, when the provision of education at universities and higher education institutions is governed by government or parliament, it is important that consideration is given to the conditions and needs of the higher education institutions and that the institutions really have the opportunity to carry out the task they have been given. In areas where the labour market needs for training are high, there may also be a need for targeted initiatives in the future. Mr President, I would like to In the report, the committee has supported two proposals in a follow-up motion, on the one hand, on an overall assessment of the objectives of development missions and, on the other hand, on the clarification of the urban development mission. I would particularly like to highlight reservation 2 here, as the urban development mission has been designed in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment and therefore does not need to be clarified further. I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-224	Mr President, I would like to The Red Green Government, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, have had a strong focus on education and knowledge since it took office more than seven years ago. This applies to the whole education chain, from preschool to doctorate, for those who are far from the labour market with short education and for those who are highly educated. It is about new learning and lifelong learning. Training places at all levels have been expanded very strongly – one has to say that. You can count on this in a little different ways. What is mentioned in the documents for today's debate is that resources equivalent to 45 000 full-year students have been added to the university. The basis for the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which we are debating today, is about seats corresponding to 17 000 full-year students in targeted expansion assignments in the university. This is a historic venture, a success, that needs to continue. Unfortunately, it has been obstinate – we can read about it in the investigation as well – on two occasions by the political opposition. But, of course, we continue tirelessly to expand the number of places, because that is important. There is a shortage in several occupational categories. Teachers, health professionals and engineers are some mentioned here, but there are also a number of other professions. The Government's initiative has meant that we have increased the number of students in these programmes very significantly. It is a success; we do not come from that. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that we have not reached all the way. Targets are not met. But the money has come in handy no matter what. In most cases where universities have not had the opportunity to respond to the goals, the resources have been used to train in other deficiency professions. I think this is a good thing. Basically, just as the Swedish National Audit Office points out, the dimensioning of education is a task for which higher education institutions must take responsibility, based on the students' ambitions and on a social responsibility. This responsibility has been shown by the universities that they are prepared to take, and they take it as well. Mr President, I would like to I think the government has very good and clear answers to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations – as has Paula Örn, the Social Democrats, explained in a very good way in the opening of the debate. Nevertheless, the political opposition has agreed on some proposals for announcements. I think it's problematic. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is, I think, generally very good and well implemented. I understand that, in addition to their review, they need to come up with some conclusions and recommendations. However, as a politician, I think that we also need to take some responsibility for the proposals for decisions that are submitted to Parliament. We constantly return to the research and teaching staff's work situation at the higher education institutions. Administrative burden needs to be reduced. Two of the proposals for announcements are, in reality, an increased administrative superstructure for universities. Although the recommendation is addressed to the government, this will naturally fall on teachers, and the quality of teaching is jeopardised by increasing the administrative burden in this way. These are these little needle sticks, this kind of extra evaluations and extra reports to be submitted, which we need to remove, not add. We're not going to add new assignments. We will, on the contrary, remove old ones. As the government writes in its response, these follow-ups and analyses are already made of, for example, UKÄ but also in the budget proposals. If you want to find them, you can read in the literature list in the investigation that the Swedish National Audit Office has done. It's in the source list there. These were two of the proposals. The third proposal for a notice is about clarifying the development assignments, which have actually been done, as the government says, and would mean a further restriction of the autonomy of the higher education institutions – precisely what has made it possible for the higher education institutions to be quite free of the funds allocated and able to use them in the way that has worked best locally. We don't need more detail control. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to support the Green Party's reservations 1 and 2, which we have together with S and V, the other also with the Center Party, and the rejection of reservation 3 from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Mr President, I would like to Before concluding my speech, I would like to return to the fact that we have a general shortage of labour with a broad academic education in Sweden. The transfer of knowledge that the government has carried out and will continue to carry out has the effect that many more people enter the labour market and get jobs. The labour market is dynamic and changing. We do not know what jobs and what training we will need tomorrow, and that is why lifelong learning is so vitally important. Here the government has been very clear: we take this challenge seriously. The teaching institutions have been commissioned by the Higher Education Act to take responsibility for lifelong learning, and this responsibility begins this semester. The Green Party entered the government with the promise to implement what we call development time, a study grant specifically aimed at people in the middle of working life who provide an opportunity to change for those who need to do so when the dynamic labour market changes. It is a support for those who are getting burned out, for those who have a heavy job where the body is being torn out – for a long and sustainable working life. This proposal thought the united opposition with the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats were so terrible and so terrible that they gathered together and removed it from a budget bill that was already on the table. I find it very difficult to understand, something that I have returned to several times. However, the proposal is now coming back, moreover in an extended form, as a conversion study aid. There is a very broad consensus here, including the social partners, employers and now LO. It is good and important and complements the government's work with broadened recruitment, with high quality in education and with targeted expansion assignments in the deficiency professions.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-241	Mr President, I would like to Mr Mats Berglund says that they have taken a great deal of responsibility at school and that they want to improve quality. There is also the negative: We see reduced results in several areas and more students who are not even approved of their courses. The honourable Member also speaks of the need to take responsibility as a politician. Of course you should, and that is precisely why we take responsibility when it does not work and when a mission fails. That is to say, we have not seen any progress in the field of shortage professions, quite the contrary. I began my speech with a scenario showing the absence of 40 000 nurses, 36 000 preschool teachers and 30 000 teachers in Sweden. We risk that one teacher in five is unauthorized. I think that this is taking responsibility, and then, of course, we must also take the Swedish National Audit Office's opinion very seriously. The Swedish National Audit Office still has a mandate to say when it doesn't work. Then we politicians will react, as we have done here.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-244	Mr President, I would like to As far as school results are concerned, I think that international measurements have shown that the negative trend has reversed. One can of course discuss the quality of the measurements, but it is a fairly clear trend that it has turned around and that it is going well in school. It is the shortage professions that we are counteracting by continuing to educate, and the investigation that we have today shows that we have more beginners in the lack of vocational education and that we have expanded the university corresponding to 45 000 new full-year places. That is simply the way in which we have to start providing the labour market with highly skilled workers in the long term. We must also take responsibility for lifelong learning so that we meet the needs of the labour market when the labour market is changing and changing with new digital challenges and all that comes. As I said in my speech, we do not know what the labour market will look like in the future, and that is why broad academic education is extremely important, as vocational education and training. The university of applied sciences has very positive results, and even there we expand the number of places. Here it is important that we do not expand the number of places too quickly but that we maintain quality, and I really think that the government has taken responsibility for that. The expansion in the number of places also comes with resources.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-247	Mr President, I would like to Assessing results can be done in different ways. You can also exempt many students when you do surveys to avoid finding that it was a negative result. The fact that we see many students already in sixth grade going out with unapproved grades speaks very much for a very serious situation that unfortunately continues later and further. We have a Minister for Education who says you can go to high school even if you can't pass the ninth grade. There we have a big, big responsibility to complete primary school. Then you come from high school to college and, for example, need to do a base year because you have not passed high school. So we have a major concern that starts very early, and unfortunately I do not think the honourable Member takes it so seriously. When we come to the question that is really at stake, we would not have stood here today if the targeted expansion had been done very well. Then the Swedish National Audit Office would not have had any criticism but said that good, this has been handled in an excellent way. Now there is quite a lot of criticism, and we take that very seriously. As the honourable Member says, we politicians must take responsibility, as we do. It follows that when the Swedish National Audit Office has criticism, we want it to be taken seriously. Then one should not say that we have made a general extension of the university. It was the targeted trainings that we were talking about, where we have a great shortcoming. I therefore do not think that it has been taken very seriously. I hope, of course, to be able to convince the honourable Member to follow our proposal for an announcement.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-253	Mr President, I would like to I think we are taking this very seriously, both with regard to school results and students leaving without passing grades. It is, of course, extremely important to take care of it, but we also take responsibility for the fact that we have not met the targets. Of course we will, but it is also important to see the successes we have had in the training assignments. I really think that is what should be emphasised. It is also important for school pupils and other people to be given new opportunities throughout their lives in the event of a lack of school performance and a lack of results in upper secondary school. It is not uncommon to end up in a dip with mental illness or anything in high school. It's a difficult time in life. You can go out with bad grades but still come back. These new chances are incredibly important. As regards the report, the Swedish National Audit Office has addressed a number of recommendations to the Government. As I said, I do not quite agree with these recommendations. I think, of course, that the Swedish National Audit Office should have the opportunity to address recommendations also to the authorities. One could also have addressed a recommendation to the higher education institutions, because it is actually those who have not really fulfilled their commitments or the requirements we have made. The Swedish National Audit Office cannot make recommendations to SKR, for example, to acquire more VFU sites. We'd love to see that. Between the lines they make a sharp recommendation to the opposition not to keep on obstrusing by pulling things out of budgets and so on, because it has really disturbed. It is very clear in the report that it has disrupted the planning horizon of higher education institutions, and now I see that the opposition continues to do so.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-257	Mr President, I would like to As last on the list of speakers, there are many repetitions. I can initially say that I share the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office's review shows. As previous speakers have said, it is a serious criticism, and we need to be self-critical about the design of the extension. Do we make the right decision at the right time? Have we identified the right solutions to given problems? Are the right conditions? Was enough time given to ensure that the right conditions could arise? It is clear from the Swedish National Audit Office's report that this is not the case in full. Higher education and research policy is much about balance and balance. It is about the balance between freedom and autonomy on the one hand and governance on the other – the balance between the benefits of research and the curiosity of research. However, when government and parliament govern, this governance must be appropriate, precise and clear. There are areas for improvement here. This is shown by the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Madam President, I would like The expansion does not take place in a vacuum, u tan here is an attempt to answer. The ambition is to find answers to the skills gap that exists in a number of professions in Sweden right now. There is not enough matching in the labour market. There's no nurses, and there's no teachers. This concerns many more professions. We educate more people, that's the answer. In theory, it sounds quite right. Unfortunately, the outcome is not quite right, although the idea is correct. In particular, there are a number of steps between taking decisions on a targeted deployment mission and having taken into account all the obstacles that exist so that the necessary decisions can be made for ready-made nurses, teachers and engineers to be ready to take on the tasks. These are a number of factors, such as VFU sites, PhD teachers and so on. It is therefore a question of the fact that the elements that ensure high quality in the training courses to be expanded have not fully worked. Like what the Swedish National Audit Office points out, it is simply not always enough students who apply for the extended places. Also, not enough students attend the entire programme. For various reasons, they drop out. Liberals have in the past been, and we are still, critical of the fact that extending teacher training would be the answer to the teacher shortage. We see that there are other reasons for the lack of teachers which are today far too widespread and, above all, other solutions to counteract the shortage. More students have to choose to become teachers. The attractiveness of the teaching profession must increase, and so on. You know this. This is not the first time we have talked about this on the Liberal side. We do not believe that this is being done primarily, as the situation is, by expanding the number of places. I did my homework for this debate. Then I found an example that shows another part of the problem, namely what Swedish Engineers wrote about when the Swedish National Audit Office published its review. Swedish Engineers noted that nearly 20 per cent of all beginners on a university programme attend an engineering programme. It is the second largest after teacher training. The problem is that many people who choose to start an engineering education do not have sufficient knowledge of mathematics in particular. Sweden's Engineers have produced further reports on mathematics as a subject. This is the subject with the lowest average grades in comprehensive school grades 6 and 9. There are things that we need to work on in order for the goals to be met if an extension leads to more nurses, more teachers and more engineers. We're supposed to be honest with the Liberals. Of course, we are not against expanding the general sites per se. We have been involved in making such decisions, not least during the pandemic. We are not against targeted deployment missions, but then there must be knowledge that will ensure that the targeted missions are properly controlled so that it will be the desired outcome. D is we need to learn more. That is why we are calling for the committee's proposals to be approved under paragraphs 2 and 3.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-268	Madam President, I would like I shall speak today on behalf of the entire Constitutional Committee. I have been given that task by my committee and we are presenting a unanimous report for debate and decision today. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. What does the exciting title, the 2019 parliamentary review, mean? The report deals with proposals from the parliamentary committee decided by the Riksdag Board in June 2019, including in response to announcements from the Constitutional Committee. It is the President who has led the committee, and it adopted the name of the 2019 parliamentary review. The Committee's report was submitted last October to the Riksdag Board. The Constitutional Committee has examined the proposals from the Riksdag Board on the basis of the Committee's report. The Constitutional Committee mainly supports the parliamentary board's considerations and proposals, but we make proposals for some minor changes. I'll get back to them. It is a comprehensive report, and there are many proposals. But I'll try to go through the main suggestions. The Swedish Parliament's proposal includes, among other things, the following. The last day for submitting the budget bill for the years it is elections to the Riksdag in August or September is linked to the mandatory Prime Minister's vote. If the government remains in office after the Prime Minister's vote, the budget proposal shall be submitted within three weeks. If the Riksdag instead elects a new Prime Minister, the new Government will, as it is today, leave the budget bill within three weeks of its taking office. Another proposal concerns the activities of the war delegation. It is proposed that it should be possible to decide on the confidentiality of the preparatory activities of the war delegation in the same way as in the committees and in the EU Board. There are also two proposals concerning Members of Parliament. The first is that a Member who leaves his group should also leave the commissions and other parliamentary bodies to which the Member has been elected by the House by virtue of his party group membership. It is also proposed that a member who does not participate in parliamentary work may be obliged to refund the membership fee. The extent of participation shall be determined by the presence at voting sessions in the Chamber. There is also a proposal that the Riksdag Board should seek the opinion of the Swedish Law Council before proposing a law or amendment to a law that falls within the scope of the Swedish Law Council's review. The Riksdag Board, the Riksbank, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen and the Swedish National Audit Office shall obtain the necessary information and opinions before making a presentation to the Riksdag. This is what the Riksdag Board proposes. The President may decide to award the medal to members who leave Parliament after at least six consecutive years of service. It is also proposed that the Parliament's medal be awarded to non-members for special or particularly meritorious contributions to the Riksdag. Furthermore, the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee will propose elections to the Riksdag Council for the National Audit Office with a common list. These were the proposals, and the amendments proposed by the committee are as follows. It shall continue to be possible for the Riksdag Board to refrain from obtaining the opinion of the Legislative Council if the Board considers that such an opinion should instead be sought by the relevant committee within the framework of the preparation of the Board's petition. The obligation to obtain the necessary information and opinions before a petition is made to the Riksdag shall apply to the Riksdag Board but not to the other parliamentary bodies, i.e. the Riksbank, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen and the National Audit Office. We also propose that it be regulated that the nomination of the Chairman and one or more Vice-Chairmen of the National Audit Board be made with at least one person from the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee respectively. Some of this may seem to be technical and administrative changes, but it is necessary to make such changes sometimes. It's based on needs. I would like to comment on some of these proposals, which have also attracted interest. The first is perhaps more internally for the Riksdag but still a change, and it is a constitutional proposal that involves obtaining an opinion from the Legislative Council and proposals on preparation requirements. This is what we propose that Parliament should adopt as a suspension, with some changes, because it is a constitutional proposal. I would also like to comment on the proposal on measures against Members who do not participate in parliamentary work. The Swedish Parliament's proposal means that a member who does not participate in parliamentary work may be required to pay the fee. Under the proposal, a Member who has been absent for at least 60% of voting time in the Chamber during a quarter shall, under certain conditions, refund the Members' fees for that period. This does not apply if you have been on sick leave or on parental leave, and there are a number of conditions to be met. However, on the part of the committee, we would like to stress the importance of the role of the Member of Parliament. All public power in Sweden is based on the government's portal clause from the people, and the Swedish People's Board is implemented through representative and parliamentary government. The members of the Riksdag have a central and very important role as representatives of the Swedish people in the Riksdag. Being a member of the Riksdag is therefore a very important responsibility. We would like to point out – and this has been emphasised several times by the committee – that a Member of Parliament is elected for office, not employed by the Riksdag or the Riksdag Administration. Against this background, he or she is free to decide, under his or her own responsibility and within certain limits, how the mission is to be carried out. You can also decide on your own work input; there are no formal requirements on how much work should be done. The role as a Member of Parliament is not only carried out in the formal sense of Parliament, but also outside the Riksdag, not least in its own constituency. It is the honourable Member's responsibility to live up to the confidence given – and in the next election the voters decide whether to renew confidence. We would therefore like to stress the importance of safeguarding the position of the individual Member of Parliament. However, the fact that a member who chooses not to participate in parliamentary work for a long period of time and for no acceptable reason nevertheless receives a full fee risks damaging the voter's confidence not only in that member but in the entire parliament and the democratic system. This is very unusual, but if it does happen, the proposal means that, under certain conditions and with repeated absences for a long period of time, one can become liable for repayment. The second question that concerns Members of Parliament is about those who choose to leave their party group. In the people's mouth it is sometimes called to become savage; here we call it partyless. If you choose to leave your party group, it is reasonable that you also have to leave the tasks you have by virtue of your party membership, i.e. places in committees, EU committees and other things. The idea of these seats is that, not least in the preparation of cases for chamber decisions, it should reflect what the political majority conditions in this House look like. Then it will be a misallocation if you remain as a partyless. However, it is the same thing here: it is important to be honest, because you are still elected. There may be occasions that we may not be used to in our parliament but where there will be such changes in the party's programme and organisation that you choose to leave the party. The committee can accept the fact that you then have to leave your duties as a member of that party. As has been said, further proposals contained in this report relate to the confidentiality of the activities of the war delegation. Unfortunately, the development of the world around us has meant that the war delegation has had to carry out more preparatory work during the last parliamentary term, and it is reasonable that there is the possibility of requiring confidentiality in relation to preparatory activities. I have also described a new regulation regarding the submission of the budget bill, the award of the parliamentary medal and the election of the Parliament's council for the Swedish National Audit Office. Finally, Madam President, what I am going to say is that the committee proposes that Parliament adopt the amendments to the form of government and to Chapter 9. 17 b § Parliamentary Order as dormant. Other amendments to the main provisions of the Parliamentary Order are also proposed, and the committee proposes that these amendments be adopted and adopted in accordance with Chapter 8. 17 § 1st paragraph 2nd sentence government form. The committee also proposes that the discussion of the Riksdag Board's proposal for a law amending the Act on the Legislative Council be postponed to the Parliamentary Session 2022/ 23. That is why, Madam President, I am once again in favour of the proposal contained in the report.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-292	Madam President, I would like For seven years I have been a member of the Parliament's Committee on Culture. For seven years I have had to debate sports issues, culture for all, gaming issues, public education and civil society. Today, however, I am in the Chamber to go up to the pulpit for the first time on a report from the Committee on Justice, namely 2021/22:JuU5 Sloped penalty for young adults in serious crime. Of course, it is a great contrast, but it is also an important input to seeing that young people's crime needs to be discussed in greater and more contexts than this. Everyone, especially adults, has a responsibility for the situation in society. We need to talk about young people as people, as people responsible and as victims of the crime that prevails and see how we can change and prevent it in every way. Madam President, I would like We're gonna turn all the rocks around. So said my new party leader Magdalena Andersson in his inaugural speech after she was elected. Those are also the words we intend to deliver. We Social Democrats do not turn a blind eye to the violence that threatens the community. We are prepared to do what is necessary to break serious crime and, above all, to tackle the causes that make people go wrong in life and end up outside the community of society, outside the labour market and beyond the social safety net. I will have to deal with these things in other debates, but today I am choosing to focus on the first: how we are breaking organised and serious crime here and now. The government's 34-point programme of proposals for measures against gang crime is just such an example. This is the largest package against gang crime that has been presented in Sweden. The package includes measures both in the short and long term and contains several new tools for authorities to use, tougher penalties and better crime prevention. These are measures which have already been effective and which already affect serious crime. More serious criminal key people are sitting behind bars today, and that's a good thing. Unfortunately, however, younger people are taking over their seats, and this is of course worrying. The 34-point programme therefore includes, among other things, paragraph 11, the abolition of the penalty for young adults in the event of serious crime. This proposal is being debated today in this House, because we are prepared to turn all the stones around. Madam President, I would like Today we have a penal system in which we treat individuals aged 18 to 20 who commit serious crimes differently. In practice, this means that people who are 18 years of age and commit serious crimes have their sentences reduced by half. These are serious crimes that strengthen and consolidate gang crime and are usually based on organised and planned crime rather than on youthful mishaps. Of course, this doesn't make sense. On the one hand, the 18-year-old who is still classified as a teenager and young is, on the other hand, an adult and responsible for his or her own life and actions. Here, society has an important role to play. We shall react strongly, on the one hand, to make it clear that we will never accept the serious crime that exists in society, and on the other hand to ensure that a criminal lifestyle is broken that is the result of gangs and older members using the penalty rebate to exploit young people and to exploit our penal system. Therefore, the Government has proposed amendments to the Criminal Code and the Act with special provisions for young offenders. These proposals include the abolition of penalties for 18 to 20-year-olds for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment. This includes, for example, crimes such as murder, robbery, aggravated assault, rape, gross blackmail, aggravated drug crime and serious gun crime. Such crimes will result in both longer and more prison sentences with the government's proposal. The same shall apply to offences which, in the individual case, should be punishable by imprisonment for at least one year, even if the minimum penalty is lower. These may include, for example, more serious cases of drug offences, aggravated theft, assault, gross illegal threats or reckless rape. Furthermore, it is proposed that the specific youth sanctions should in principle apply only to those who have not reached the age of 18 at the time of the offence. It is also proposed that serious crimes such as murder and rape of children should not be allowed to be time-barred if the crime has been committed by someone aged 18 or over. Madam President, I would like I will never defend the violence, but nevertheless I am sensitive to the research that exists on young people and crime and to the criticism that the referee points to. Here I take with me the experience I have as an educated high school teacher when it comes to young people's undeveloped responsibilities and maturity. I do not believe that we should or can remove the penalty rebate entirely for all crimes, but we must take into account the fact that it is more difficult for a person to live an honest life the sooner in life the person is convicted. An unplanned blow in the pub queue or in the school yard must therefore not result in us making life difficult for the 18-year-old who could not handle the situation. However, we should be clear that we never accept serious crime. We Social Democrats therefore choose to focus on serious criminality among young adults who can be committed in gang environments, for example. It is a better and more accurate proposal than a total abolition of the penalty rebate for all forms of crime. Here we politicians must have perspectives and be able to distinguish between different types of crime. Most young offenders in our country commit one or a few less serious crimes and usually end this when they get older. Removing the penalty even in the less serious cases would risk doing more harm than good and, instead, attracting young people into the criminal path from which we want them to stay away. There is a discussion about the limits of the penalty discount. This will be evident in the debate in this House, as we actually feel differently here in Parliament. There are parties that think that the government goes too far and that we need to take into account the immature and undeveloped ability to think about the consequences and responsibilities that young people have, according to research. But there are also parties who think that the government does not go far enough and who think that we should abolish the penalty rebate for all crimes. They also want to review the design of the penalty discount between the ages of 15 and 17. Precisely because – because some parties think that the government goes too far and others think that we do not go far enough – perhaps the government's path is right. We Social Democrats have promised to turn all the stones around to deal with crime. Now the government is taking another step towards achieving this goal. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support reservation 4.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-310	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the government's proposal to abolish the penalty rebate for young adults in the event of serious crime. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Since 2016, the Riksdag has on a number of occasions issued announcements about tightening up the penalty rebate. It has taken many years for the government to come up with legislative proposals. You can blame the government too much but not for being quick. While the government has been slow, many serious crimes have been committed that could probably have been avoided if the government did not take the matter in the long term. The youth reduction investigation was set up and proposed that persons aged 18 to 20 should be treated as other legal offenders for the purpose of measuring penalties and choosing penalties. The investigation's proposal was therefore that all legal offenders should be treated equally and that no legal person should receive a penalty discount due to their age. The government has rejected the proposal by presenting a new proposal which maintains a system of penalty rebates up to the age of 21. Madam President, I would like In the bill, the government proposes that the penalty rebate be removed if someone aged 18 to 20 has committed a crime for which it is not prescribed to be less than prison for one year or if the penalty value of the offence exceeds prison for one year. In addition, no specific reasons should be required to impose prison sentences on this age group. The specific youth sanctions shall be used, unless there are special reasons, for persons under the age of 18 at the time of the offence. There should also be no special requirement to obtain the opinion of the Social Welfare Board in order to sentence young offenders to prison for more than three months. It should also be possible to sentence 18 to 20-year-olds to life imprisonment. These proposals are steps in the right direction, but we do not think they are enough. Madam President, I would like The government's proposal abolishes the penalty rebate for certain types of crime. However, it is not abolished for other crimes that are particularly serious, such as the threat of a witness and thereby the abuse of a judicial case. Other examples of such crimes include assault, threats, and violence against officials. There are no good reasons why legal persons should receive a penalty discount for these crimes. Basically, all the people I've talked to out in society think it's wrong to get a penalty discount. In our Nordic neighbours, there is no penalty discount for legal persons in the way we have in Sweden. Madam President, I would like For several years violence in the gang-criminal environment has escalated, and murder and attempted murder of firearms has become everyday crime in Sweden. Young men are shot to death in Sweden to an extent that stands out among comparable countries. A while ago a German newspaper wrote that Sweden is the most dangerous country in Europe – Sweden, the most dangerous country in Europe! There has been a sharp increase in violence in recent years. The trend is frightening, and the perpetrators are getting younger and younger. For example, the so-called youth robberies have increased sharply. These robberies are often committed by several young perpetrators who attack a single victim of no chance, who they demand valuables and then abuse. Often there are degrading elements in the robberies. So it is not enough to rob people anymore, but it is necessary to abuse them as well. These young perpetrators are simply cowards who ruin the lives of many. In Stockholm, this type of robbery has more than doubled during the period 2015– 2019, and in Linköping, the number of cases has increased by over 700 per cent in five years. Madam President, I would like As I said, it is not just gang criminals who are affected by the gross violence. Law - abiding people are also affected, especially in vulnerable areas where violence and threats belong to everyday life and where people are frightened to silence. So the people there must adapt their lives to crime. Over the past year, several innocent people have been murdered, including a 12-year-old girl. The penalty discount also means that young people are recruited by older gang criminals to commit serious crimes or to take the blame for crimes committed by others. The reason is that if they get caught, they get a penalty discount. Prosecution is often a difficult task, as there is a strong culture of silence in these environments. It is therefore very important that the penalty rebate for all offences is removed for persons who have reached the age of 18. This will mean that the threshold effects will be greater than today between a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old. To balance this up, we Moderates have proposed in our committee motion that the penalties for 15 – 17-year-olds should be reviewed. Madam President, I would like In Sweden it is considered that people who have reached the age of 18 are mature enough to have employment, to run a business, to vote in general elections, to sit in Parliament as a Member of Parliament and to make laws and to defend the country in the event of war. In other words, when the age of authority is reached, we treat those aged 18 or over as adults in the vast majority of cases but not in the case of crime. This is all wrong. The government seems to think that people are mature enough usually when it comes to benefits for them, but that they are too immature to take responsibility when it is to their disadvantage. We Moderates believe that the current penalty rebate has meant that victims of crime have suffered enormous violations when their adult practitioners have received penalties that are in stark contrast with general legal awareness. The total abolition of the penalty rebate is a decision whereby the person who is of age must have the same responsibility as an adult even in the case of crime. This is not what the government thinks. The government wants to continue to grant a penalty discount to legal persons. Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Mikael Damberg have said on several occasions that gang crime will be crushed. As we have just heard from the Socialist Member, Magdalena Andersson, the new leader of the Social Democrats, recently promised to turn all the stones to smoke out the violence that threatens our entire community. But it's actually empty words. The government's proposal in this matter therefore means that a 20-year-old who threatens a witness and commits abuse in a legal case will continue to receive a penalty discount. The government's proposal means that a 20-year-old who abuses his girlfriend will continue to receive a penalty discount. The Government's proposal means that a 20-year-old who attacks, threatens or commits violence against a policeman will continue to receive a penalty discount. It is quite incomprehensible that the government believes that 20-year-olds cannot take full responsibility for crimes they have committed. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that the penalty rebate should be abolished entirely for all crimes, as the investigation suggests. We fully finance the proposal in our budget motion. The cost is estimated at SEK 1.1 billion. Unfortunately, it seems that we are not getting approval for our sharp bill. It is a great pity that the Center Party did not support our proposal. In any case, however, we are receiving an announcement that the government should come back with a bill that abolishes the penalty rebate for young adult offenders for all crimes. That's good, because 20-year-olds who threaten witnesses and cops shouldn't have a penalty discount, nor a 20-year-old who beats up his girlfriend.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-331	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 3 in paragraph 2, the Slopad discount for young adults in the event of serious crime. Several are examples of young offenders getting away with serious crimes. These are serious crimes committed by victims, often young victims, after them. These victims can in no way be regarded as having been reproved for what they have been subjected to. Victims have seen their perpetrators be subject to sanctions that are far from the penalty value as well as the general sense of law. The sanctions are completely unrelated to the principle of proportionality that we Swedish democrats hold so dear. Among the crimes committed by young offenders, youth robberies have probably been among those most exposed in recent years, and we have seen an increase in the near future.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-334	Moreover, we have all been able to read about how the robbers today do not always settle for the victim's valuables, designer clothes and other belongings. Although they do not need to use violence, they do so, and the violence is often marked by pure humiliation. Sometimes acts of violence and humiliation are filmed and distributed in social media. The perpetrators want to ensure that as many people as possible take part in their abuse. In this way they establish dominance and spread terror, while the victim's suffering becomes even greater. The humiliation is complete. In this crude reality, the youth rebate has denied victims reasonable redress, while at the same time causing young offenders to laugh at their penalties. There are plenty of examples of this to highlight, and I will touch only a handful. Tonight, I'll moderate a seminar for young robbers. Among the three robbers involved, there is no one who has seen his offender be given a reasonable sentence. In one case, the robbery victim has been robbed, beaten up, and threatened for over six hours. The perpetrator was convicted of two cases of assault, an assault on the robbery victim and one of the perpetrator's pregnant girlfriend, illegal threats to both the robbery victim and the pregnant girlfriend, theft, robbery and abuse of a legal case. The sentence was two and a half years in prison, but the sentence was six months spent in juvenile care. It is probably a punishment that absolutely no one finds reasonable, in terms of the acts for which the offender has been convicted. Even if the penalty had been the whole penalty, there would be justification for criticism. In the near future we have been able to take part in other cases that are worth highlighting in this context. Last summer, a 17-year-old was convicted of murder after setting fire to a house in which a woman was burned. The sentence was four years spent in juvenile care. To be mentioned is also the Syrian citizen who kidnapped, tortured and raped a woman for almost 24 hours in Malmö. Previously, he had broken into an apartment and raped another woman. In this case, the sentence value was estimated to be ten years in prison – even a low penalty according to many. But with a youth discount, a quantity discount, a reduced age and another youth discount, the penalty was two years after the raise. It all came to pass that he earned 840 000 crowns on the rape when, despite the possibility of not doing so, the Chancellor of Justice chose to pay damages for the time he would not have been in prison under the last sentence. This week, the sentence is expected to fall on the 17-year-old suspected police killer. In this case, too, we can expect strong youth discounts, and it is not impossible for the penalty here too to land on four years of closed youth care. Last week, a 13-year-old was arrested for attempted murder. The person could not be punished at all if he turns out to be guilty. Madam President, I would like None of the convicted or suspected young perpetrators I have touched so far would in any way have been hit by the toothless bill presented by the government. None of their victims had received a reasonable remedy, and the actual penalty for the proceedings would never have been the actual penalty if the government's proposal had already been implemented. The government dares only to deal with certain crimes committed by young, adult offenders between 18 and 20 years of age. In other words, it completely ignores the need for both a reduction in the age of the criminal authorities and a review of the youth rebate for young offenders between the ages of 15 and 18. We in the Swedish Democrats saw these shortcomings in the Government's proposal and went furthest in our follow-up motion through proposals for sharp legal text to correct parts of the shortcomings and proposals for announcements to remedy other parts of the shortcomings. Unfortunately, we did not get support in the committee for our proposal to abolish the penalty reduction for all legal offenders without delay and to substantially reduce the youth rebate for those aged 15-17, much because of the Center Party. But at least we managed to send a statement to the government to abolish the penalty reduction for those over 18 years of age, which is a good start and better than nothing.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-345	Let me draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the content of court judgments must not be criticised or debated in this House. Nor should the content of the decisions taken by the authorities in individual cases be criticised or debated in this House.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-346	Madam President, I would like Regardless of who commits the crime, the victim is equally severely affected. The victim does not care if the offender is old or young, dark-haired or light-haired, male or female. I would like to emphasise that no matter who commits a criminal act, it is terrible. A life can't come back. A blow can't be undone. A rape is nothing more than a patriarchal assault. Age is not an excuse to make the crime less serious. But when we legislate, we must do it with more wisdom than emotion. It is our duty as elected representatives, although it may be contrary to much of what we feel every day when violent crimes are committed, when police officers are murdered, when young women disappear and when the gangs shoot. We must be responsible and look forward to what society we actually want and see what research says about what happens when young people are locked up at an early age. Madam President, I would like It's not an easy question. We in the Left Party have discussed this for a long and long time and have come to the conclusion that we want to maintain the current system of penalties for young people. The system of sanctions for young offenders is designed on the basis that children and young people who have committed crimes should be kept primarily outside the prison system and instead be the subject of social services interventions. Young offenders, i.e. persons up to 21 years of age, are treated differently both when it comes to the choice of the penalty and when the penalty is measured. The main reason for this is that young people have typically not reached maturity that they should be treated as adults. Young offenders may also often have special needs for help and support in order not to relapse into crime. Young people can be sentenced to specific youth sanctions such as youth care, youth services and youth monitoring. The investigator who has reviewed the issue of the penalty rebate concludes that there is no empirical, experience-based support for stricter sanctions for young offenders. The study shows that results from the most recent brain research, developmental psychology and criminology can only be interpreted as support to maintain a consideration for the young age of the perpetrators. This attitude is shared by a number of criminologists. The risk is that a cut-off penalty will lead to an increase in young people's crime. Research shows, among other things, that crime increases a lot among men when they are in their 20s and then drastically reduces. The earlier in life a person is convicted, the harder it becomes to live honestly, and people who spend a long time in prison find it difficult to get back into society again. Research shows that it is more difficult to break criminal patterns and a criminal identity if established at a young age, and such an identity is strongly established in prison. Several consultation bodies object to the Government's proposal, and this is what the Left Party is leaning against. The State Department Board, Sis, says that young people aged 18 to 20 often have a lack of ability to understand the consequences of their actions. Today we know that the logic of criminal networks is very short and that they live day by day. It's a very destructive lifestyle. According to Sis, there is nothing to suggest that long detentions lead to a reduction in crime. On the contrary, the combined international and Swedish research shows the negative effects of the lock-in. Yesterday, the Social Affairs Committee announced that the government will return with a new letter on how to address the shortcomings of Sis' special youth home, and that is a good thing. The General Children's House is concerned about the threshold effect of the Government's proposal in terms of penalties for major crimes carried out before and after the 18th anniversary. There is a risk that children who have not yet reached the age of 18 will be recruited to a greater extent to carry out serious crimes if those aged 18 or over risk considerably more severe penalties for the same offence. The Department of Criminology at Stockholm University points out that the fact that participation in gang-related shootings carries a significant risk of being shot to death by yourself neither affects the number of shootings nor acts as a deterrent. Nor has the enforcement of penalties had any deterrent effect. Madam President, I would like There are many good reasons to treat young people differently when it comes to punishment. Nor is there any evidence that longer sentences reduce crime. Longer sentences do not give back all the lives that crime has taken. Rape does not become consent, and gunshots do not go back into the race. The penalty exists when it is already too late. Yet the policy focuses solely on the punishment rather than on reducing crime. The focus should be on preventing crime. The focus should be on fewer victims, because that is when the victim gets correct redress. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-365	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Linda Westerlund Snecker something about the age of government, which is 18 years old in Sweden. As I said in my speech, 18-year-olds are allowed to run companies, vote in general elections and sit in the Swedish parliament and make laws, but they are clearly not mature enough to comply with the laws they have passed. I find this contradictory. The same is true of the fact that 18 to 20-year-olds can be called out to war if they are part of the defense. Then they are obviously very mature, but they are not ready to take responsibility for crimes they have committed. I find it very contradictory that 18 to 20-year-olds can even be sent to war but not take responsibility for their crimes. Can Linda Westerlund Snecker explain to me why you are mature in one case but not in the other?
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-368	Madam President, I would like I think it's about what society we want. We see that it is precisely between the ages of 18 and 20 that crime is at its highest, especially among men, and that it is then drastically reduced. Yes, we have given 18-year-olds a lot of freedom, and in every way they are adults. I fully agree with that. Of course, it may seem a little contradictory that 18-year-olds, as Ellen Juntti says, are allowed to make laws, but on the other hand they do not have to follow them. But I don't really agree. When it comes to the reduction of penalties, if we lock young people into the prison system at a young age, the criminal identity will be strengthened. If they are locked up for quite a long time, they will come out with a strong and strong criminal identity. They will come out as gang leaders, and I want to do everything I can to counter crime. Both research and experience and the authorities jointly arrive at the fact that longer sentences do not affect crime, and then I think it will be counterproductive to lock people up and give them long sentences instead of ensuring that they are rehabilitated in the juvenile care that we have today. That is why the Left Party has come to the conclusion that we want to maintain the discrimination that is currently taking place between young people and adults.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-371	Madam President, I would like Not only does it seem inconsistent, but it is inconsistent that you have to do certain things when you are 18 years old and that you then count as an adult but that you do not count as an adult when you do other things. With the government's proposal, 20-year-olds who threaten a witness get a penalty discount. How will this help to combat gang crime? How will it reduce domestic violence that a 20-year-old abuser gets a penalty discount? Linda Westerlund Snecker said a victim doesn't care what age it is of the offender. They probably do not in most cases, but what victims care about is the consequences of the crime they have suffered, regardless of the age of the perpetrator. The Left Party, for example, says that they are doing everything they can to combat domestic violence, but how can it be reasonable for a 20-year-old who beats his girlfriend to get a penalty discount? Explain it to me!
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-374	Madam President, I would like I note that there is a recurrent abuse of victims in this debate. One justifies one's own political position with different individual cases and what can happen to the victim. It is an abuse of victims. That is exactly how legislation should not be done, that it repeatedly raises various cases and says that if its own proposal does not go through, it will or will happen. We must raise the level above the legislator, Madam President. We need to see what society we want and how we can reduce crime. The accumulated experience and research says that if we lock young people in for a long time at an early age, the criminal identity will be consolidated. Crime will not be reduced. Then, Madam President, I prefer to land in experience and research instead of using the consistent abuse of the different status of victims, which is certainly not to provide redress for victims. The establishment of crime victims is to ensure that crime is reduced. We are not doing this by locking people up for a very long time. Then they'll come out as gang leaders, and I think that's a bad development.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-376	Madam President, I would like The situation in Sweden is extremely serious. While we stand here debating penalty discounts for young people, there is a trial against a 17-year-old who is suspected of murdering a police officer. He has already been convicted of attempted murder in public places but has already been released because the penalties for young murderers are outrageously low in today's Sweden as a result of the legislation. This is just the tip of an iceberg. In several high-profile cases in Sweden, children have acted as torpedoes for criminal gangs. This includes an execution at a pizzeria in Rinkeby. It is a deeply destructive development. In Sweden, children should not be raised as murderers, but according to both prosecutors and police officers, serious criminals have put in systems to exploit young people because the penalties are so low. At the same time, expressions such as breasting a four to become a hundred-year-old have taken hold, i.e. committing the most serious crime and receiving four years of closed juvenile care to be 100 percent admitted to the criminal gang. The perpetrators are often young, and it is clear that penalty rebates are an important component when gangs recruit. Madam President, I would like It is worrying to see how demeaning robberies have increased apace in recent years. Often the targets are children and the violations are extremely gross. This trend must be broken, and it is clear to most people that the current government cannot and does not want to see what is needed to reverse developments. The government has abandoned the Youth Reduction Investigation's proposal in favour of legislation that provides for a continued penalty reduction if, for example, you threaten witnesses in a trial or if you attack a police officer and thereby commit violence against a civil servant. There are no acceptable reasons for the general signal that age would be a mitigating circumstance in such crime. The report contains a sharp legislative proposal to remove the penalty rebate altogether, which is ready and which could be implemented. A majority in Parliament is also in favour of this, but unfortunately the report lacks a majority and probably also a majority in the vote this afternoon. However, it is still possible to endorse the proposal and to get through a proposal that is supported by a majority. Unfortunately, the Center Party has declared that they will not support our strong bill. Instead, they want the government to come forward with the same proposal eventually, in an undefined future. We believe that action is needed here and now. The abolition of the current penalty rebate is also important in order for the victim to receive the redress that the violation entails. Madam President, I would like This is not about an abuse of the victims, as we heard earlier in the line shift – quite the opposite. Victims deserve redress. Criminals will pay for their crimes so that justice can be done. It is this society that the Christian Democrats want to see – a society where the public consistently and persistently stands on the side of victims and ensures that fair punishment is imposed for the atoning of crimes committed. Madam President, I would like We heard earlier in the debate that there was talk about where the government line should go. There has been a consensus for quite a long time that if you are 18 years old you are old enough to vote, work, run a business, participate in war for Sweden and also sit in parliament and make laws. Then we believe that it is also reasonable to take the consequences of the full punishment if you commit crimes and do not comply with the laws. Madam President, I would like In this report, there is also a proposal from the Christian Democrats together with the Moderates in reservation 6 to change the penalty discount for 15 – 17-year-olds. If you remove the penalty discount for 18 to 21-year-olds, a new threshold occurs at the age of 17 to 18. We are concerned and concerned that this would create a new incentive to exploit even younger children in a criminal environment. That is why the report points to the proposals of the Youth Reduction Investigation which also take this into account in order to ensure a consistent scale of penalties. We believe in reservation 6 that we need to continue working on this and that this should be announced to the government. We are, of course, behind this. But for time winning at the vote, we only ask for reservation 2.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-386	Madam President, I would like We are on a dear subject for the Committee on Justice, namely crime and punishment. What's to follow? So far, Madam President, we have heard a nice mix of theses on general prevention, individual prevention, encapsulation, proportionality and retaliation. These are well-known theories. The truth is that we apply all of this. We believe that we should have a review of the crime on the debt issue and then an appropriate sanction where different factors should influence. However, the reason for this report is to abolish the automatic penalty rebates for legal persons on a given schedule. It's incredibly easy for the Liberals to support. We also believe that it is clear that automatic measures should be taken to eliminate all crimes. However, as is clear from our reservation 5, which I support, we still believe that youth is certainly something that is temporary but which means that young people are not fully developed in the head and that this should in fact be taken into account in the measurement of penalties. This is important for the Liberals. This was Linda Westerlund Snecker also inside. Perhaps one can do this once and see that this is a clearly extenuating circumstance. But, of course, this is not sustainable in the long run. In another reservation, we believe that this should be reviewed for those who are of criminal age but under 18 years of age. I am pleased that even the Swedish Democrats in this regard note that they do not entirely want to remove this with youth as an extenuating circumstance. The road to young people getting into crime is not very strange. We know that it is about failed school results, broken home conditions and perhaps constitutional problems that lead to them. Having said that, it is worth mentioning that we must do much more. Although, as the Liberals want, we completely abolish the automatic penalty rebates for people between 18 and 21 years of age, and indeed for those between 15 and 17 years of age, youth must reasonably be seen as a mitigating circumstance in all sensible countries. On and off, we are discussing the age of criminal authority. And there are countries where 6-year-olds can be punished. Hand up in here for whoever thinks it makes sense. I see no one thinks so, and I am pleased. Some countries have a criminal age from 10 or 12 years. Some have an even higher age of punishment than Sweden, which has 15 years. There is the age of 16 or even 17. My point is that we have to look at other things. We need to talk even more about social services here, but it is not on our committee. This must be done sooner and more clearly. It must be a consequence even in the first crime. That is how we prevent these young people from becoming bearers, performers and shooters of the serious crime which is a real problem. Liberals see no contradiction in doing this while we steer the Social Services Act or listen to what it looks like in school. A report from the Teacher Association, Shut up bitch, shows how serious the situation is in the Swedish schools and that too little is happening. There are other reports that teachers are being abused, how violence is spreading and that there are no consequences there, nor in social services. We are still waiting for this in the country of Sweden, and a number of people have spoken here before about the best interests of the child. However, parents still have the right to say no to interventions until the child is subjected to a coercive care and home in Medelpad or a family home. Well, that's all right. We must ensure that we prevent small accidents from becoming major disasters. As many have described, the situation is very serious. We can list individual events that we can de-identify so we can talk about them in here. But we also have all these reports on shootings, the lack of clearance in shootings, robbery reports, security investigations and the police's own statistics on how young people are drawn further and further into misery and misery that harm them and others if we do not interrupt this. That is why it is very important that this step is taken. But for the Liberals it is important to make sure that we move forward. There should be no automatic discounts. But youth must always be regarded early as a mitigating circumstance. Everything else is completely unreasonable from a humanistic point of view. There's some kind of dream that we're either in the Buller Village or in the movie Escape from New York. And I'm sure we're somewhere in between. I don't know if you've seen the movie Escape from New York, but it's a dystopia of the development of a society. For many young people, it is obviously a mental ice age that is very tragic and easily drawn into very serious crime. That is why these changes are absolutely necessary and important to implement.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-398	Madam President, I would like We are debating the issue of the reduction of penalties for young adults in the event of serious crime, what is called the youth rebate, and which has been a controversial political issue in recent years. That adults are punished harder for the same crimes than children is reasonable. This arrangement has been in force in Sweden at least since the December 17th Code of Injustice. The investigation that forms the basis of this report and led by the Prosecutor General Petra Lundh describes how children have historically been dealt with in the event of crime. It was as far as you went back there, but maybe it was before too. At the time when Sweden still applied corporal punishment and was far from a democratic country, it was thus seen as extenuating when children committed crimes. This is a system that applies in the vast majority of countries in the world to this day. As far as I am concerned, all countries have a limit to the age at which they can be convicted of crime. The parties in the Swedish parliament have different views on this. We have heard this during the debate, but it is important to remember that everyone is in favour of some kind of difference when it comes to children and adults. Some parties want to lower the age of the criminal authority, but they still want an age limit for when penalties can be given, which is natural but still worth pointing out. In this context, I can appreciate the speech just before my, Madam President, which nuanced this issue in a way that is not always done in shorter debates as it is more of onelins that are drawn on this issue. Madam President, I would like Today it is not a question of children that should be decided on, but of young adults aged 18 to 20. The Government's proposal is that those who commit crimes that have at least one year's accumulated penalty value and are sentenced for it will not receive any reduction, or discount, for those crimes. This is a reasonable change to make, we think, from the Green Party. That is a good balance that has been struck. This means that those crimes that are less serious and less serious will be judged milder. The reason for this is that a young person who commits a crime should not become more and more deeply involved in the criminal environment. The vast majority of young people who commit crimes do not commit many crimes. Most people commit a crime, and when you're convicted of it, you regret it and don't do it again. Madam President, I would like There are proposals from other parties to remove this entirely for young adults. However, there are also proposals to do it again strongly for children, i.e. 15 to 17-year-olds. As I said, there are also some who want to lower the age of the criminal authorities. In the case of 15 to 17-year-olds, there needs to be changes compared to how it works today. There has recently been an investigation into it, which I welcome. We have been a driving force for it on the part of the Green Party in relation to those who commit serious crimes today and are convicted under the law on closed youth care. It needs to change. There is a need for longer penalties for the most serious crimes than are being done today, but that also requires, of course, that the quality of the institutions in which these children are located be better than it is today. Only longer penalties will make no difference, but quality and how to work for children to get out and break their criminal path need to be significantly improved. With this, I would like to endorse reservation number 4.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-408	Madam President, I would like Part of the debate has so far been marked by a discussion about when you are responsible for your actions – when you are mature, when you are grown up, when the frontal lobe is fully developed or whatever you can hang on to. I think this is an interesting discussion, because this is somewhat different from the different positions taken by the Green Party. In this bill and this report, we have dealt with the issue of abolishing the youth rebate for certain types of crimes for those who have become of age, may vote, may be recruited to the military and so on. That's good. That's a good start. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we believe that everyone who is 18 years old should be able to take full responsibility for their actions. In fact, that's when you're considered an adult. If you listen to the Green Party, you hear that they do not want such an order. They don't want a 20-year-old who commits assault to be punished as an adult even though it's of age. At the same time, the Green Party wishes to lower the voting age. There was a recent move that they wanted there to be the right to vote in the general elections for those who were 16 years of age. The government also wants to move forward with a proposal to allow 12-year-olds to change legal sex. It is quite interesting, I think, that it can distinguish eight years between being able to change legal sex and taking full responsibility for the crimes you commit. I think it is difficult for many voters to get that logic together. Am I really mature at the age of 12, or is it delayed until my 21st birthday? It is very unclear when you look at the policy of the Green Party and the government. Against this background, Madam President, I would like to ask you a question. How does the Green Party land in these definitions? I think that is a question that many with me want to ask.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-413	Madam President, I would like Although this debate is really about something other than the age of voting, I will allow myself to make a small digression to answer the question, because it is interesting and deserves to be discussed. Democracy celebrates 100 years this year – or the breakthrough of democracy, you should say, because it was not complete at the moment but then had a big breakthrough. At that time, there was a 23-year limit for voting in general elections. It was eventually sunk. There, conservative forces have opposed. Today, the age limit for voting is 18 years. Since there are elections every four years in Sweden, the average age when voting for the first time is 20 years. The age of the criminal authority is 15 years. The Swedish Democrats want to lower it to 13 years. My counter-question, Madam President, is: where is the logic of this? Why should you be punished when you are 13 years old but not be allowed to vote for the first time until you are 20 years old?
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-416	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the partial answer, Rasmus Ling! It is clear that we can have a discussion about different age categories. I think we need, above all, to see that we have had a development in which, at an ever lower age, more and more serious crimes are being committed. Then we must be able to have a debate on the age of criminal authority, which is already separate from the age of voting. I think that's reasonable. On the other hand, I find it very difficult to understand the argument that a 20-year-old person could not take full responsibility for his/her actions while in other areas he/she thinks that people of younger age should be able to do this, in this case when it comes to voting rights or when he/she should be allowed to change legal sex. The question to which I would like answers and which arises from the discussion that we now have is whether Rasmus Ling believes that victims value their perceived violation, what they have been subjected to, their suffering, but they then get, the potential post-traumatic stress etc. differ depending on whether a 20-year-old or a 21-year-old commits the crimes – or if someone between 15 and 17 years of age does so. As it is now, the Green Party refuses to review the discounts for them between 15 and 17 years of age. If you have been assaulted by a 20 - year - old person — does it hurt less? Is less of a concern than if the offender had been 21 years old? And if you suffer a crime committed by someone who is 13 years old, you think: Yes, in two years' time this person would have been punished, but now the person did not deserve it. I don't think victims reason in those paths. I don't think you care at all about the age of the offender. I think that we are concerned about what was done, and then it is also reasonable for us to go forward to a greater extent than today with the kind of proposals that the Swedish Democrats and others have made in this report so that we can, to a greater extent, really punish those who deserve to be punished.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-422	Madam President, I would like I also do not believe that the age of the perpetrator is the decisive factor for the victim of the crime. What I think most people think is important is that the crimes committed are cleared up, that those who committed them are held accountable for them and that as many crimes as possible are prevented so that they never happen at all. The problems we have today in terms of criminal environments, gang environments, are that very few crimes at all are cleared up. It has nothing to do with what the penalty is for the crimes that are well cleared up, but it is a huge problem. The level of clearance must be raised significantly, not least for the sake of victims but also for the prevention of crime. Madam President, I would like When it comes to Tobias Andersson's description of young people who commit grosser crimes, it is a huge problem in society that it has crawled down in the ages in this way. But if one believes that the solution is to lower the age of the criminal authority to 13 years and significantly increase the penalties for others up to 18 years, one will enter a spiral where the gangs use even younger people. The problems will not be solved in this way. If this is the way Tobias Andersson says that they use 14-year-olds because they are not so trafficmyn di ga, they will only use even younger people. So lowering is no solution to that problem. Madam President, I would like I think we in this House should agree that a 13-year-old is a child. The 13-year-olds who commit crimes need help, support and care – not punishment.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-426	Madam President, I would like I also wanted to discuss this with you when you are mature and not ready to take responsibility for your actions. I don't think Rasmus Ling answered that. Instead of answering, he asked Tobias Andersson a counter-question. I said in my speech that an 18-year-old can run a business, vote, sit in the Swedish parliament and make laws, but apparently you are not mature enough to comply with the laws you have passed. You can also be sent to war if you are in the defense. It becomes very contradictory that you are ready to be sent even to war but not mature enough to take responsibility when committing crimes. I can't really get it together. I would like Rasmus Ling to explain why, at the age of 18, people are ready to go to war, for example, but too immature to take responsibility for crimes they have committed.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-429	Madam President, I would like I don't think Ellen Juntti was really unhappy with my answer. I think she had prepared her question and therefore wanted to ask it, but I am happy to answer one more time. We have different age limits for different things in Sweden. You have the right to work with easier tasks from the age of 13 and earn your own money. We have compulsory schooling throughout primary school. We have talked in this House about having compulsory schooling throughout high school. At the age of 18, you become of age and can take a driving licence. Not until the age of 20 can you buy alcohol at Systembolaget. There are also more age limits. We don't have one. It will never once and for all be cut in stone and given what will apply to all the different things in society. I think 18 years is a reasonable age of authority. I would like to see the voting age reduced to 16 years. It would have been a good and inclusive reform. In this way, in several German states and in Switzerland, among other places, it is in the votes it uses there. There are other age limits that might need to be raised or changed in different ways. With the decision to be taken now, 18-year-olds will be sentenced just like older people for the most serious crime. I think that is well balanced when it is at least one year's accumulated penalty value. That's a reasonable change to make. But the fact that we have lower punishments for younger ones is also reasonable. The adult has a greater responsibility than a child who is not an adult. Madam President, I would like My counter-question to Ellen Juntti is: Do you think that a distinction should be made between children and adults as to what responsibility you have for crimes you have committed?
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-434	Madam President, I would like Yeah, you're supposed to make a difference, depending on how old the baby is. It is clear that you should make a difference between a child aged 8 years and an adult aged 23 years. I guess that's what anybody knows. You don't even have to ask about that. Here we are talking about adult people, 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds, and not small children. Rasmus Ling's party is in the government, and the government's proposal therefore means that a 20-year-old who threatens a witness and commits abuse in a legal case will continue to receive a penalty discount. How will it help to combat gang crime when there is already a serious culture of silence in the affected areas? The government's proposal also means that a 20-year-old who abuses his girlfriend will receive a penalty discount in the future. Minister Stenevi of the Green Party has often said that violence in close relations should be combated with all its might. How, then, can the government approve and feel that it is a good suggestion that a 20-year-old who abuses his girlfriend receive a penalty discount? How will it help to combat domestic violence?
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-437	Madam President, I would like The 20-year-old who commits a crime with one year's penalty will not get a discount with this proposal. For example, when we raise the penalty for gross female poverty to at least one year's imprisonment, all 20-year-olds who are guilty of it will be sentenced just like the one who is 21, 22, or even older. As I said, the change we are now making is reasonable, but it is also well balanced. Madam President, I would like I'm glad Ellen Juntti admits that you should make a difference between children and adults and that adults should have a greater responsibility for their actions than children should have. We will certainly come back to the issue of minors, children and young people, in criminality. This is an urgent debate. I hope, Madam President, that we can keep it at a higher level than sometimes is the case in those debates when Ellen Juntti and others bring their onelins without nurturing these difficult issues in a way that they deserve.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-440	Madam President, I would like Crime no longer looks like it used to be a few years ago. For decades, security increased, and most categories of crime decreased in scope. We felt that we could mainly live in security, without much fear of crime. Of course, it wasn't for everyone. And for those who were victims of crime, reducing crime overall did little to help. For a few years now, developments have been different. Three categories of crime went against the positive trend and gave us very worrying signals – fraud, sex crimes and gang violence. Failure to act quickly on such signals and, in fact, Madam President, a serious lack of leadership, long-termism and a clear line of action on what was wanted with justice policy in Sweden has released a very serious crime, notably through gun violence. Seriously, this type of crime is being carried out by younger and younger people. Some of the cross-party discussions that led up to the 34-point program against gang violence were also to remove the general write-down of penalties for persons between 18 and 21 years of age. We are deciding on this today. The prosecutor general who investigated this came to the conclusion that the reform would probably not lead to greater security, but from the political side we have to look at the bigger picture. You are on slippery ice if you question the prosecutor general's analyses in this area; she is one of the country's foremost in her field. But there is a point in meeting developments with legislation based on an overall picture. Moreover, today the prison system is not quite what it used to be in the world. In my opinion, they work very professionally with good and evidence-based programs to prevent relapse in crime. Longer execution time allows longer time to work with a convicted person for, for example, violent crimes. Madam President, I would like Legislation is normally best when it is based on principles. This makes it more likely to be comprehensible, easier to apply and meets acceptance in accordance with a general legal understanding. The Center Party's view is that the general write-down should be abolished for all crimes. There are several reasons for this, both in principle and in practice. However, all serious legislators have a reality to deal with. Everything we want to do in the area of justice is resource-intensive to varying degrees, and how we prioritise will be crucial to our success. Starting with the most serious crimes is important. As I said, we want to move on with other crimes, but we should know that it is quite costly. The question we all have to ask ourselves is how best to use taxpayers' money, how to get the most law enforcement effect for the money. Implementing the whole reform here and now would cost an additional EUR 700 million. On the question of whether, in this strained situation, the best and most responsible way of using tax money is, I have to say, the answer is probably no. There are also practicalities other than the purely budgetary ones that all serious legislators have to take into account. I am thinking mainly of the state of the penitentiary. We recently had a visit to the Committee on Justice by the Director-General of the Criminal Service, who was able to tell us about the strained situation of overcrowding that jeopardises both safety and relapse prevention. The ambition to have more sentences in prison for longer is basically something that the Center Party shares. However, moving forward with sharp legislation to get it in place today would create major problems. We may or may not like it, but that is the case, Madam President. It has been mentioned in the debate that crimes such as the abuse of justice, that is to say, the threat of a witness, are not included in this, and that is true. However, we also have a broad consensus that we should tighten the penalties for abuse of justice. Here I would like to remind you of the Center Party's idea on this point, that there should be at least two years in prison because it gives police and prosecutors more instruments to work with. In addition, we have proposed, Madam President, that the crime of abuse in legal proceedings should be exempted from the so-called principle of aspiration, so that there is a further penalty, regardless of the penalty imposed on the defendant.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-453	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party have jointly managed to get an announcement to the government. There we tell the government that we are not satisfied with how toothless the bill is, that we are not satisfied that it is only those who are over 18 and who commit serious serious crimes that should be punished in full and that we want all crimes committed by perpetrators over 18 years of age to result in the penalties that are expected. However, this could have happened immediately. The Swedish Democrats have in a similar way as the Moderates have their own proposals on how we could have come forward immediately with a sharp legal text. We take note of the proposals contained in the investigation and implement them. We could have had reasonable legislation in place considerably faster than an announcement. This had the Center Party the opportunity to follow up. If other parties had done so, it would have meant that it was what we would be taking a decision on in this House this afternoon instead of the announcement that will now be directed against the government. I find this distressing, and I think that there is reason to take part in a debate on it in this House. The question I want to ask Johan Hedin is why the Center Party, which still shares the spirit, did not choose to go to work immediately instead of later.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-456	Madam President, I would like I think I explained it quite well in my speech, but I can come back to that. Madam President, I would like It must be easy to be a Swedish democrat. There are simple answers to just every question. There is always sharper punishment, more repression and more money for police and prosecutors. Sometimes it's right. But, Madam President, even a clock that stands still shows correctly twice a day. I look at the Swedish Democrats a little bit. I can also say that I was rather worried when I heard Tobias Andersson's main speech. He commented on individual cases and judgments and assessed the activities of the courts. But it is an absolute foundation of liberal democracy that we distinguish the legislative power from the judiciary. We have heard people excuse the Swedish Democrats when this concern has been highlighted. You can look at the sister parties of the Swedish Democrats in Europe, for example in Poland and Hungary. Step by step, they try to dismantle the independence of the courts and influence them politically. People have said: No, no, no, the Swedish Democrats are not like that at all. Of course they have some brown roots, but they are a completely different party now. They can take responsibility, and we can have a common budget with them. Just listen, colleagues and friends, to Tobias Andersson's speech! He addresses a large number of individual cases and individual judgments and comments on them. That, Madam President, scares me of the dark.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-461	Madam President, I would like If the debate started at one end once, I think Johan Hedin's line ended somewhere at the other end. It was fundamentally different from what the question was actually about. But one thing I'll give him right, and that's that it's at times easy to be a Swedish democrat. I say this in the light of the fact that the Swedish Democrats have landed just right for decades. It often gets easy when you're right. On this issue, the Center Party agrees. They chose to join an announcement in which they felt that the Swedish Democrats were right in substance. However, it did not have the backbone to proceed without delay with the proposal which it considered to be right. It is clear that it will then be easy, as a Swedish democrat, to be critical of the Centre Party abstaining. But I do not think it is only the Swedish Democrats who become critical of the Centre Party's actions. I also believe that the future victims who will be affected by perpetrators who are in the age categories 18, 19 and 20 years in the coming years until the announcement may have actually borne fruit – if it will – will be disappointed with the Center Party, disappointed that the Center Party did not immediately agree to strong legal texts and secured reasonable sanctions. They will wonder how it came about that the Center Party did not see to it that they received the redress they could have received for, for example, abuse or abuse of justice. They will wonder why the Center Party chose to focus the debate on Poland and Hungary. They will wonder why the Center Party did not immediately choose to stand up for what it claims to be behind and actually legislate in the legislature.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-465	Madam President, I would like I think of a funny and perhaps a little derogatory saying about us politicians: A politician is a person who has so thick skin that it can stand up without a spine. Tobias Andersson accuses me of missing my spine. This decision has not been made with the spine. We have understood it a little bit higher in the body, in the head, where real conditions and practicalities must be taken into account. The Director-General of the Prison Service recently visited us in the Justice Committee and spoke about the extremely strained situation. You have to move in several inmates and have two inmates in a room that is actually adapted for one inmate. The question you have to answer when you want to introduce this with sharp legislation today is how to create a place in our prisons. Should the inmates sleep chafing feet? What is Tobias Andersson's solution to this? It is distressing that you can stand in the speaker's chair and just crank on – say a lot of things and pull out oneliners as if it were some kind of political peasant capture. We have a reality to relate to. This is a reality that all serious legislators must take into account. There are budgetary conditions, and there are practical conditions. There are a number of examples of Sweden's democrats abandoning those principles, but given the risk of being accused of being a subject of exodus, I am staying there.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-468	Madam President, I would like Being a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice is a bit like riding a bicycle. You can never stop stepping and working on. And just like the bicycle chain, the justice chain must be in constant motion because the world around us is changing. Today, there is criminality that did not exist when the Criminal Code entered into force in 1965. The optimal for one time can be hopeless passage in another. That's the job we have to work on. Modern technology also benefits prosecutors, police and courts, and so we need to ask ourselves how to use it in the best possible way to combat crime. If crime is constantly changing, the principles of a fair trial are based on a human vision that has taken shape long before cameras, computers and apps existed. The ideas of enlightenment about everyone's equality before the law and the right to a fair trial never become uninteresting and outmoded, as a vhs player becomes. They are timeless and must be honored and protected by those who believe in democracy. Herein lies our challenge in the Committee on Justice to combat crime effectively and legally and to find the right balance between legal certainty, modernity, flexibility and efficiency in our time. Today we have extensive criminal cases with very technical evidence, several defendants and a large number of witnesses. As pressure increases on the justice system, efficiency needs to be improved. Here, the sounds and video recordings of courts and other authorities outside the main hearing together with written statements from witnesses can play an important role. The possibility of using stories provided in early interrogations is extended by the Government's proposal. The evidence can therefore be taken up and presented to a greater extent in the most appropriate way in each individual case. Now it is proposed to extend the possibility of allowing stories from interrogation before a law enforcement authority as evidence in court. The requirement is if appropriate. It is now also proposed to extend the possibility of bringing evidence before a court before the main hearing, for example in large criminal cases, and whether it can be assumed to have an impact on the issue of lifting a detention order or restrictions. This is, of course, a welcome measure for the Prison Service to be able to make the best use of its resources. Furthermore, it is now proposed to extend the possibility of using written statements from witnesses as evidence. In the text of the law, they are called witness certificates. Even today there are situations where witness certificates can be permitted by a court. This applies, for example, when a witness hearing cannot be held during the main hearing. Testimony certificates can now be used in more cases in disputes between individuals. Now it is also possible to invoke witness certificates as evidence in criminal proceedings. You should then have the same requirements for this. The same requirement shall apply as for civil proceedings that the parties must accept it and that it is not manifestly inappropriate. All these proposals allow material collected before the main hearing to be relied upon as evidence to a greater extent. Please note that we also have elements of this today, but that we are now expanding the possibilities. Several reforms have already been made in this area. Among other things, the possibility for the Court of Appeal to play witness hearings from the District Court. This reform was made in the 21st century and was called a more modern trial. The proposals that the government has now come forward with are balanced so that courts do not have to deal with the taking of evidence, witness statements and other things that will ultimately be irrelevant, hence the limitations that some of the motions touch upon. The legal chain will be stronger if it is effective in all links. This legislative proposal strengthens the legal chain and maintains legal certainty. It keeps the focus without losing the whole picture. It is simply an example of good legislation in an important policy area. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-479	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1 as well as the other amendments tabled by the committee. In most cases, the victim of a crime or the witness of a crime may soon tell a police officer what he or she has suffered or actually seen. And hopefully the evidence is so good that the perpetrator can then be prosecuted. However, for the perpetrator to be punished, more is required, namely that the evidence presented in court is sufficient for a conviction. And often the stories given by victims and witnesses during the trial are absolutely crucial. Often, a long time will pass after the victim or witness has been heard by the police before it is time for court proceedings. The prosecutor who has decided to prosecute has done so on the basis of the stories provided during the preliminary investigation. The prosecutor then has only to hope that the victim and the witness will tell the same story in court as they have done in the past. Unfortunately, this is far from always happening. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, the courts must comply with a procedural code written in the 1940s. None of us can say with honor that society at large, and crime in particular, looks the same today as it did 80 years ago. Yet today's judges had to deal with the same rules that their grandmother had to follow if she was a judge. This is not reasonable, and this is something that the Prosecutor-General has repeatedly pointed out. The immediate principle of the Code of Criminal Procedure is outdated and must be changed. Today, only what takes place during the trial itself counts. That's only what happens when the court is allowed to take into account when it comes to deciding whether the defendant is to be convicted or not. Everything that has happened before the hearing, including often numerous interrogations during the preliminary investigation, is not worth water in the eyes of the court. That is because we legislators have decided it. We can imagine a woman who was beaten by her husband and who told the police about it, who came to the apartment after neighbors alerted us about screaming and fighting. The woman is heard again the day after the incident, and the police videotape the woman when she fully tells her about her crime. But once it's time for court hearings, she's suddenly very few words and leaves a completely different explanation for her injuries. In such a case and with today's regulations, the prosecutor must entirely accept that the woman no longer wants to stand by her previous story and that instead she says that the bruises she has had are due to her falling. The court has nothing but to free the accused man, since the woman no longer claims to have been the victim of a crime. Madam President, I would like Several good proposals have been put forward in the bill to finally loosen the principle of immediacy and enable the Court to take into account more than what is said during the trial itself when making its decision. An excellent suggestion is that interrogations that the police have recorded during the preliminary investigation should be allowed to be played at the court hearing itself. That's good. Unfortunately, however, that is far from enough. Unfortunately, the government has chosen a writing that will allow the defendant's defender to have great opportunities to stop a playback of an early hearing from being played before the court. The Government proposal contains the legally weak wording that early hearings should only be played in cases where the court considers it appropriate. Swedish courts are rarely willing to apply the legal text extensively, and this should be the case from a legal certainty perspective. It is therefore extremely unfortunate that, as the government is now moving forward with legislative changes in this area, it is opting for a wording that opens up a series of objections from defenders, who will in many cases put an end to the playback of early interrogations. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party want a much sharper wording on recorded hearings, namely that the court must allow such a hearing in all cases except where it is manifestly inappropriate. We have run it in committee and have also managed to get a majority with us for an announcement of this, which is very gratifying. If the Rules of Procedure are changed in the way we want, the Court will be able, in the vast majority of cases, to play early hearings when they are invoked. Then stories from women who have been abused by their husbands, but where the woman no longer wants to tell about the event once it is time for trial, could become part of the court's procedural material. This also applies to witness statements about a gang member who has been seen robbing the local shop in the area, but where the witness has been put under pressure before the trial, which means that he no longer wants to know his previous story. With the Government's proposal, the risk is obvious that these early hearings will continue to remain in the preliminary investigation and squalor and never reach the court's ears in order to be part of the court's basis for decision. In fact, in these times, when we are all talking about how important it is to prosecute serious crime, it is completely incomprehensible and also irresponsible for the government to choose the powerless formulation it has made. It is now only to be hoped that the government will come back as soon as possible with such a sharp wording as we advocate.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-492	Madam President, I would like It is a very interesting proposal that we are now going to consider how the taking of evidence and the evaluation of evidence can be done in a better way in a court of law. That is, in principle, very interesting. The Left Party is broadly in favour of the bill and sometimes wants to go even further. We support reservation 1. This is, as some have pointed out, a shift from the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted in the 1940s, which was then a huge turn of events. It had a highly regulated form of how to present and evaluate evidence. What was then done as new – and you should remember that as a basic principle – was that it would be free trial of evidence and free evaluation of evidence. This means, of course, that we will be able to have certain rules on the evidence. At the same time, however, it is a considerable freedom both for parties and for the courts. The limits are actually at the levels of human rights. It must not be offensive, provoked under torture, or the like. We shall also, of course, comply with the European Convention in Sweden. It is Article 6 which regulates a fair trial. What was then done in the Code of Procedure, as some have pointed out, was that it should be based on verbality, immediacy and concentration in the court. It would in principle be a main hearing in which all persons were present and evidence and hearings could be presented orally to the court and where any other presentation of the evidence also took place. A great deal of exceptions have already been legislated. This more modern trial has already been mentioned. There, the Court of Appeal can be based on a taking of evidence in the district court by recording video interviews. But if someone gives a testimony in the court, for example in the district court, and deviates from what has been said in the preliminary investigation, I have a completely different experience and insight in how the court then deals with it than what was said from the Center Party. You have the right to invoke what happened during the preliminary investigation. It is not at all unusual to play a video interview from the police. It was one of the reforms that were sought in connection with the introduction of women's peace crimes. But it also happens in other types of goals. One can also highlight what has happened during the preliminary investigation in interrogations if someone refuses to say anything but perhaps has spoken before. There is a practice in the courts. But it's not enough. This reform seeks to further develop this and to improve the quality of what is happening in the preparatory stages before the case comes to court so that it can use skilfully conducted video interrogations and thereby relieve some of the pressures that may arise. What has prompted the proposal is, above all, that large criminal cases cause a lot of problems for many. There are problems in the main objectives. It may be very appropriate to proceed gradually with taking of evidence or, for example, based on video interviews. When there is an accumulation of the major goals, it also affects all other cases. This means that what has happened with fraud offences, violent crimes and other things that we often debate also affect other types of cases. This applies not least to violence in close relationships, as is mentioned in the bill. I would like to say quite clearly that it is very often about men's violence against women and children. What can be achieved by allowing and opening up to the different taking of evidence is better evidence. Evidence is really a fresh product. It is important to get as close to the crime as possible to get a full story in skillfully conducted interrogations. Of course, it relieves pressure on both witnesses, plaintiffs and victims of crime, avoiding harassment and threats. If you have already delivered a story, it will be valid in a similar way as if you were questioned in court. Additional questions from, for example, defenders or the possibility of sometimes subsequently supplementing evidence in court must also be allowed. Yet, you have delivered a story that frees you from harassment or threats. It is also the case that we should sometimes avoid the parties and those who are active in a process meeting in the court. In this way, the taking of evidence can work, or more often than at present, it can be allowed for hearings in another court to be played out in the courthouse. This is really about principles for how to get the best possible proof of a legal trial as possible, but also for as correct and materially correct judgments as possible. We must be able to build on the benefits of modern technology. It is also important to see that the investigation from the beginning and the proposal has been supported quite broadly by important bodies. This applies, for example, to the National Association of Victim Support Finlands, the Swedish Crime Victims Agency and the Children's Ombudsman, which, however, warns about how you have the attitude towards children in the texts. But overall it has been appreciated that the reform is now coming. It can mean a lot to our legal certainty and better trials.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-506	Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating is quite a change. It is also an important and a good change. It may sound a bit dry, this is to increase the possibility of early interrogation, but it is something that may be of great importance. In Sweden, the procedure in the trial was based on the so-called "immediateness principle". The parties present their evidence and their petition to the Court orally and immediately, and the Court will decide on the basis of what appears there and then in the Chamber. There have been changes in this before. It is about the possibility of being present at a distance and other things, and this is another such step. This means that an early hearing should be able to be played before the court. The advantage is that some crimes can get a higher clearance rate. One aim is also to increase efficiency. One example may be violence against women in close relationships when an interrogation is conducted on the spot when the police have come to the home. Today, for various reasons, threats or other, the woman may not dare to testify when the trial takes place a number of months after the event has occurred. Madam President, I would like Another advantage of this may be that those in custody for restricted crimes can give a testimony in an interview about their story. Thereby you do not have to sit with full restrictions. This is good for the Correctional Service, which is the responsible authority. But it is also good from the perspective that no one is well off from being isolated in the way that detention with restrictions actually entails. This is also something that Sweden has received criticism for in many contexts and something that there is broad support for not having to do longer than necessary. If such an early hearing is conducted and can be used, it is also less possible to remain silent and then present a story adapted to what has been revealed. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-511	Madam President, I would like I wanted to begin by reflecting a little on what Social Democrat Gustaf Lantz said at the beginning of the debate. To be a member of the Committee on Justice is like riding a bicycle, he said. Maybe it's about Gustaf Lantz. But that is not the case with Moderates, because we know what we are doing in the Committee on Justice. That's it! Today, we are debating the government bill. Increased opportunities to use early interrogations. The main objectives of the proposals are to make the handling of large-scale criminal cases more modern, flexible and efficient. The number of large criminal cases has increased considerably in recent years given all the major gang trials, where many people are to be interrogated. They are defendants, plaintiffs, witnesses and experts. These criminal cases are often widespread. It's a large number of different crimes. The investigations are complex, and the investigation material is very extensive. According to the current general rule, only information which has appeared at the main hearing can form the basis of a judgment in the case. What has been said and revealed during the preliminary investigation is normally not used as evidence. There are exceptions, but these derogations are very tight. Large criminal cases often require extensive investigative resources, and processing times are very long. This means that the evidence situation is deteriorating, and it is becoming more difficult to prosecute the crimes. It is important to secure evidence early, and it is primarily a matter of holding interviews with interrogators before they have simply forgotten various details from the crime scene or have had time to be influenced by others or by the media. It has also become more common for plaintiffs and witnesses to be threatened to change their stories later in criminal proceedings. The possibility of greater use of early interrogations means less pressure on both plaintiffs and witnesses. This is particularly important in investigations into gang crime and violence in close relationships. The use of early interrogations makes it easier to plan the main hearings. Detention periods may be shorter, and restrictions may be removed. More crimes will be cleared up and the number of suspended main proceedings will be reduced. In other words, there are strong reasons to adapt the criminal proceedings to current crime and to create better conditions for using the previous interrogations as evidence. The Riksdag has announced this in the past. Madam President, I would like Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg have said on several occasions that gang crime will be crushed. The new party leader of the Social Democrats Magdalena Andersson recently promised to turn all the stones around to smoke out the violence, which threatens our entire community. Is that true, or are they empty words? Let's see what it looks like in the bill. According to the proposal in the investigation on which the proposal is based, evidence should be available to the courts if it is not inappropriate in view of the nature of the investigation or case. The government's proposal differs from the investigation's proposal. The government wants to impose sharper demands than the investigation proposes. The first requirement is that the court should only take up evidence during the preliminary investigation if there is someone who has been informed of reasonable suspicion. The second is that the Government proposes to introduce a higher requirement to be able to take up evidence during the preliminary investigation by moving away from the investigation's presumption rule in favour of a requirement for suitability. In other words, it will be more difficult to use previous interrogations as evidence. It can sometimes be a little difficult to understand the legal language, but the government is therefore proposing higher demands to use the early interrogations at trial. We Moderates believe that the investigation proposal should be implemented, because it would create better conditions for a more effective criminal procedure. Madam President, I would like The investigation suggests that sound and image recording of a story before the prosecutor or the police or otherwise out of order may be invoked if it is not inappropriate. The Government proposes higher requirements by allowing this to be invoked if appropriate. Some consultation bodies want to go further than the investigation. The Prosecutor's Office considers that false statements should be relied on as evidence if they are not manifestly inappropriate. So the starting point is that it should always be used. It is very good that we are told that stories from hearings recorded with sound and image before a law enforcement authority may be used as evidence in court unless it is manifestly inappropriate. These are thus considerably lower requirements than the government proposes. Madam President, I would like The possibility of presenting documentary evidence should be extended. According to the Government's proposal, a story that has been submitted in writing on the occasion of an already initiated or pending trial or a record of a story that someone left out of order may be invoked as evidence if both parties accept it and it is not manifestly inappropriate. The same shall apply in the case of a sound recording or a sound and image recording. The requirement that both parties agree to this effect is intended to protect a party from the disadvantages it may entail in terms of evidence that a written statement is invoked against the defendant. This is very strange. I read it again: the requirement for both parties to agree on this is intended to protect a party from the disadvantages it may entail in terms of evidence that a written story is invoked against the defendant. It should not, therefore, be to the detriment of the accused, but it must obviously be to the detriment of a victim. According to the Government, a party should be able to prevent the use of the witness statement as evidence. A defendant should be able to say: No, this must not be used as evidence. Among other things, the Prosecution Authority has had views on the requirement that both parties must accept the use. The Court of Appeal of Western Sweden has also expressed doubts about this. To understand how bad the government's proposal is, you have to understand what a witness certificate is. I do not know if everyone understands it or knows it, but the majority of all interviews with victims and witnesses are witness certificates, for example when police officers go to a crime scene and hold interviews with victims and witnesses. The police then take up information, write them down on paper, go to the police station and write a summary of the interview. It's a witness certificate. It is about the same when a victim or a witness comes to the police station and tells us what has happened. Then the police will write a summary of the hearing. It's a witness certificate. Many interviews with victims and witnesses are held by telephone. These are never recorded. The police will write them down on an interrogation form, which means a witness certificate. The summary is that the majority of the interviews with victims and witnesses are not recorded, either by sound or by image. According to police officers in Gothenburg with whom I have spoken, it is extremely important that these witness certificates can be used for trial, not least given that many victims and witnesses withdraw their data due to fear or threats. The possibility that a defendant will approve the presentation of a witness certificate that speaks for his guilt as evidence at the trial is microscopic. No one indicted will say, "Sure, you can use the five witness certificates pointing out of me as a murderer." That's never gonna happen. The defendants will say that it must not be used at the trial. This will mean that many criminals will go free and fewer victims will get redress. Therefore, I am very pleased that we will have an announcement that it should be considered unless the requirement that both parties have to accept the use of a witness certificate as evidence at trial is removed. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the government wants higher demands than the investigation proposes for early interrogations to be used in law enforcement, as well as excessive requirements for the use of witness certificates. The government's words about crushing gang crime echo empty, as this bill has clearly shown. Although it is a step in the right direction, it is far from enough.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-538	Madam President, I would like It is easy to get very technical when we discuss these issues. I had a question in which I would like a little clarification. I understood that Ellen Junttis definition of witness certificates is very broad. My view of witness statements is that, in order to invoke them as evidence instead of a witness hearing, they write down or record a statement. What Ellen Juntti mentioned in her speech was what could be termed a hearing. There is also a separate inclusion in the bill. I thought it would be a good idea for us to sort this out so that we know what we are deciding on later this afternoon. What exactly is Ellen Junttis definition of witness certificate?
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-540	Madam President, I would like A witness statement, as stated in the bill, is a story that someone has submitted in writing on the occasion of an already initiated or pending trial, or a record of a story that someone left out of order. So they have left the story before the police, and then it becomes a witness certificate.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-541	Madam President, I would like The requirement that there should be mutual acceptance of the witness stand is for us to have a process in which we can sort out what has happened. It is very important to have legal certainty in the Swedish legal system. In a trial, anyone who is addressed, if we talk about criminal matters, must have the opportunity to ask counter-questions. As mentioned earlier in the debate, we have a free trial of evidence in Swedish law, and this means that witness certificates are rarely invoked even if the possibility exists. They will not have a major impact on when the court will take its decision. When I have acted as a representative in the Swedish legal system, it has been very clear when it is a witness certificate, i.e. when it is listed for use in court. It has not been all the information in a preliminary investigation that has been a witness certificate. I think it is important that we keep track of what we are talking about. In conclusion, I would like to be clear in this debate on the importance of properly highlighting issues in our courts. Anyone accused of something should have the opportunity to counter-question, but there should also be the possibility to invoke witness certificates in certain cases where this is not possible for one reason or another. Now we are lowering the thresholds for this, and that is a good thing. This gives us a similar regime in the area of criminal law as in the area of civil law. I think that's good. But I defend myself against it, as I see it, very simplistic, cowardly and sometimes a little vulgar rhetoric that every questioning and every demand for the rule of law is something that is evil. It is not, in my opinion.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-545	Madam President, I would like I have said quite a few times in this room that I have worked as a police officer in Gothenburg for 30 years. I've held an incredible number of interviews with both victims and witnesses. For example, many of those interviews are held by telephone. You never record them. I called my colleagues in Gothenburg for this debate and asked: Are they being recorded? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It'll be a witness certificate. Should you then not be allowed to use it at the trial? When the government says that both parties should approve of this, the defendant is more protected than the victim. If a party decides that this may be used, it is then up to the court and the court to decide and judge according to what has been found there. But the fact that a defendant can stop questioning witnesses and plaintiffs is completely wrong.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-547	Madam President, I would like I am also among those who react to the definitions here. When I myself had the floor, I wanted to communicate how to actually do it in court with, for example, video interrogations, something that the police often have to do, for example when it comes to violence in close relationship. You can then get very good evidence if you have a camera with you, which you should have according to directives and manuals, and the victim can give his or her own story while it is fresh. You can also get additional evidence by filming inside the apartment or villa, which it can also be about, but then you need some further decisions. This can be extremely important evidence. As for what we should call witness certificates, I think that definition is, unfortunately, vague as well. It would be problematic if we said that it is enough, that the police abandon these routines, and then you have an interrogation and write it down. At best, it is confirmed that the text in the preliminary investigation was correct, but there is another lock-up. I don't mean that I'm a witness. It's a preparation. Then the person will have to be oral in the court. A witness certificate is more precise. These are certain facts that may be confirmed or a brief description because you cannot be filmed and cannot come to the Court of Justice, and that is all there is. We must also uphold the additional principle, in addition to the fact that we have free evidence and the distribution of evidence, to produce the best evidence.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-551	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Nordborg says here that you should film and have cameras and will and will. Yes, I agree that it would be very good. But that is not the reality. In the run-up to this debate, I called and talked to a police chief in northeastern Angered. I asked about when the cops are being called to a crime scene. Sometimes they have body cameras on, for example, if it's an assault. Then the victim and perhaps several Witnesses will tell us what has happened. Sometimes cops have body cameras, but not everyone has. Far from everyone has it. Then they take the information and go to the police station and write it down on an interrogation form. It'll be a witness certificate. It is very important that these data should be used at the trial, because there may be several months between the time of the crime and the trial. Then there's a lot of time to happen. Among other things, many repent or are threatened with silence, so it is very important that they are used. It will not happen many times that a defendant agrees that a witness certificate may be used if it speaks for his guilt. Neither would I if I were on trial. You're not so stupid to say, "Use the witness certificates that will mean I'm going to jail for five years!" They won't say.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-555	Madam President, I would like Now I think we're on the wrong track again. The situation that we already have today is that if the witness does not come to the court or if the plaintiff says anything other than it did during the preliminary investigation, then you go back to the other and confront the person with it. But it is not the interrogation in the preliminary investigation that becomes the complete evidence, but it is still what happens in the main hearing. Witness certificates are something that should be used independently. It may be factual information that may be important to receive from an expert or other. But it's not descriptions of a course of crime and such. These are much more concrete and shorter stories than that. Otherwise, we're going to use the technology we're talking about now. When we make provision for a reform that will allow you to use the video technicians further, then it is the one that should be used. It has actually been the norm and directives of the police and politics a long time before. Then it is unfortunately as the honourable Member says here: It is not always that the police have cameras with them. But then we should discuss how this really works. It must be this good technical evidence if we are to get the best evidence, which is what we need to aim for in order to obtain legal certainty.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-560	Madam President, I would like What we're going to discuss here is probably reality. I also wish that all the policemen out there in order – or IGV, as it is now – had body cameras. I wish every police station where witnesses and plaintiffs were questioned had the technical equipment to record and use everything. But that is not the reality. In the run-up to this debate, I also called a colleague who is a preliminary investigator on crimes in close relations in Gothenburg. It's been quite a few years since I worked there, so I just wanted to see if it's changed or not. She said that the majority of all interviews held with victims and witnesses are not recorded. We might wish it were all recorded, but that's not the case. It's far from that. That's why it's incredibly important that witnesses' certificates can be used in court. A victim has time to change many times along the way, and that is why it is important. This is what the bill says: a requirement for the parties to agree intends to protect a party from the disadvantages it may entail in terms of evidence that a written statement is invoked against him or her. According to the Government, a party should be able to prevent the use of the witness statement as evidence. If you go on the government's proposal, that means that a defendant can stop all these important witness statements. It's all wrong.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-565	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report on enhanced possibilities for the use of early interrogations. For the Swedish Democrats, it is to be welcomed that we are now having a debate on a proposal that is moving in the right direction, although in here we have somewhat different views on balance points for suitability to use just early questioning. I took the liberty of looking at the motion bank and saw that the Swedish Democrats were exercising about being able to use early interrogations in the main negotiations as early as 2014, if not earlier. Historically, then, we have been a party which has pushed forward on this issue. We have seen a problem that has perhaps been more debated in recent years. A proposal on the matter is welcome. After all, it is not a new problem, Madam President, that there is a discrepancy between what witnesses say in interrogations and recordings by police officers and what they then stand for in court. For example, in this debate men's violence against women, violence in close relationships and, of course, the culture of silence surrounding gang crime are mentioned as clear examples of when this is a rather big problem. Men's violence against women and violence in close relationships is not a new phenomenon in Sweden, but this discrepancy has existed in many cases. Women have been silenced during the trial or during the pre-trial and trial period. For the Swedish Democrats, it is therefore welcome that we have a debate on these issues and that we have a proposal as a starting point. We also have an investigation that has landed in various proposals, and they go in the same direction as the conclusions that the Swedish democrats and others have landed in the course of the preparation are well balanced. However, Madam President, we have a government which is in fact rejecting the proposal of the investigation and which, for example, does not endorse the views of the Prosecution Authority on what can be considered reasonable. This is – unfortunately, may I say – a little symptomatic of how the conflict line goes. I do not understand that this is an ideological line of conflict that leads us to come to various conclusions, but this is a symptomatic problem for a red-green government. Once you have an opportunity to do something that can be of great benefit to victims, for example, who may be exposed to threats and feel weak in a vulnerable position, you still choose to abandon the investigation's proposal and drive with the handbrake in the highest order. This is a red thread in many other cases throughout the reign of the Red-Green Government. We've been talking about penalty discounts earlier today. There you do not want to remove the penalty rebates entirely for all adults, but you do it a little bit. You make it a little more sparing. You do it a little too little, and it also has consequences. I believe, as many others in this House have well pointed out in the debate, that, for example, if you have the right to object to the use of witness certificates and other evidence in early interrogations, you will of course take that opportunity. After all, there is no accused individual who believes that all kinds of evidence is beneficial to one and thus can also be used as evidence in the main hearing. These objections will, of course, come, and if there is the possibility of giving them decisive importance, there is a clear risk that this will affect the outcome. If you want to talk about a common thread, it has been a common thread for the Swedish Democrats to protect the victims' chances of redress. I do not think that is unfamiliar to anyone in this debate or in this House. That is why we have come to the conclusions that we have reached in common with many parties in opposition. I note that only the Green Party and the Social Democrats choose to reserve themselves in two announcements. I'm afraid that's where the dividing line goes. But we have a rather broad consensus in Parliament on two of the announcements that lie in the documents that we decide on later today. Having said that, Madam President, there will be no reservation in favour because we have a majority in favour of the announcements we are making. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-578	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd catch up where Adam Marttinen left off. There was talk of the need for reciprocity between the defendant and the victim of the crime when it comes to whether early interrogations may be presented. That is not how I have read the report, it is about witness certificates. Adam Marttinen was talking about the early interrogations. I was into it even in the last line shift with Ellen Juntti. Do we agree that the requirement for reciprocity does not apply to early questioning before a law enforcement authority? I would like us to sort this out so that there is no confusion.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-579	Madam President, I would like I cannot remember exactly how I put the words in the speaker's chair – it will have to be expunged if you look at the debate afterwards. But, of course, there are differences there, and I may have messed it up. Nevertheless, there is a separate view about witness certificates and how to use them in the main proceedings. If I have got it mixed up in the speaker's chair and it is correct, as Mr Lantz says, I can back down on this point, but we obviously stand by the announcements set out in the report.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-581	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Adam Marttinen, for the clarification! For the sake of clarity, I would like to say to those who are watching: the fact that an interrogation is recorded on a piece of paper does not mean that it automatically becomes a witness. The witness statement is drawn up in order to replace a witness hearing in a court of law. The reason for mutual acceptance is that there is a lack of opportunity for counter-questions. In the past, other demands have also been raised, such as the existence of a reasonable suspicion that an early hearing may be invoked before a law enforcement authority. A law enforcement authority, such as the police, may choose to hear someone as a witness. Then a reasonable suspicion is established, and a hearing made with someone as a witness is invoked against someone addressed. This kind of legal aspect must be dealt with in committee so that after discussion we do not leave behind us legislation that involves enforcement problems in court. We must also safeguard the rule of law. Thank you, Adam Marttinen, for the clarification!
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-583	Madam President, I would like I may not necessarily need to extend this line shift further. As I said, our starting point is based on the views that have come from, among other things, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, which is based on the investigation's proposals. I do not believe that the comments we make in our announcement would in any way undermine legal certainty in the courts. However, we have a somewhat different view of when and how and what balance is to be taken into account. That's the way it should be in a democracy, I can think.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-585	Madam President, I would like Gustaf Lantz said in his speech: Working in the committee and with legal policy is like cycling. If you take a bike ride or work with legal policy, it is important that you know where you are going and also have the energy to get to the goal. The question is whether today's government parties have these characteristics. We see, Madam President, unfortunately, a trend of increased crime in our country, often linked to various criminal gang formations. This also makes the investigations in many cases extensive and complex, and in order to meet these developments, our judicial system also needs to undergo the necessary changes to enable the police and the judiciary to investigate and prosecute those who carry out this type of crime. As mentioned here in the debate, Parliament has previously made announcements in line with this orientation, following proposals from, among other things, us Christian Democrats. The focus is that early interrogations should be able to be used in Swedish law. The government is now making a proposal in the light of, among other things, these announcements. The aim of the proposals is to make the handling of large-scale criminal cases more modern, flexible and efficient. The proposals will increase the possibilities for using stories submitted in early interrogations. Therefore, evidence can be given to a greater extent and presented in the manner appropriate in each case. The Christian Democrats share the government's assessment of the necessity of changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. An important reason to change the law is that the ability to record sound and image has significantly improved in recent years. Early evidence is also better in terms of quality. In the case of violence in a close relationship, an immediately recorded interrogation when the police arrive at a place may reveal the injuries and trauma experienced by the plaintiff. Similarly, immediate questioning of witnesses can be considered to be more reliable the closer the crime they are being held. It can also prevent the witness from being affected by rumours, media information or pressure. Another important reason is that early interrogations can reduce detention periods in Sweden, which is also of great importance. Madam President, I would like As usual, the proposal is a step in the right direction, but we and others in the committee have views on the drafting of the proposal. The Christian Democrats, like the Public Prosecutor's Office, believe that sound and image recordings obtained unjustifiably may be invoked as evidence unless it is manifestly inappropriate. The starting point, then, is that it should always be allowed, unless it is obviously inappropriate. The Christian Democrats and also a majority in the committee believe that it is important to avoid objections to the appropriateness of invoking sound and image recordings of stories being presented late in the process because the risk is then that the main hearing must be cancelled and the interrogator instead called to appear personally. We therefore believe, together with the majority of the committee, that, according to the announcement that a story given at a hearing before a law enforcement authority and documented by a sound and image recording may be invoked as evidence in the trial unless it is manifestly inappropriate to take account of the case. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, we believe that the regulation should be amended so that written endorsements can be given even if both parties do not agree to it. It would be an obstacle to efficiency gains with the proposal if both parties' approval is required. A written witness certificate has lower evidentiary value than other witness statements, which is why we consider that the risks of possible abuse are low. Therefore, we do not believe that both parties should have to accept the use of written endorsements. It should therefore be considered, as the announcement from the committee's reading indicates, unless the requirement that the parties have to accept a witness certificate in order for it to be presented as evidence to be removed. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats also support the third announcement on this issue. According to this notice, the SOU study proposal would create better conditions for a more efficient criminal procedure without compromising legal certainty. The proposals on taking of evidence in court during the preliminary investigation and the preparation of criminal proceedings should therefore be implemented. We Christian Democrats see that the development of both increased serious crime and other crime requires an update of today's legal system. Today's proposal meets these needs to some extent, but as I have highlighted, there is a need for further action. This matter alone leads the committee to three missions to the government. There is still work to be done to ensure that the justice system is given the tools needed to restore security. We Christian Democrats are prepared to make further necessary changes. We know where the luck is going, and we promise to get right up to the goal. The question is whether the present government also has the same intentions.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-595	Madam President, I would like When I went to law school 30 years ago, I had a professor of court proceedings who talked about the new court code. They still thought it was new then, although it was from the 1940s. It's not going to happen so fast, at least not in Uppsala. But there was also a procedural code before that that meant the big difference. That is when we got the procedural order that we are essentially applying today. Now we have thoughts that we are going to depart from it something about that everything is going to happen right at the trial. I'm afraid that's necessary. There was a time when we rested in the idea of the good criminal. There was a so-called thief's honor. It was about answering questions and not threatening anyone else. And one would have the right to a good defender, something that my predecessor in the House, Karl Staaff, pushed through about 100 years ago. You would have a defender, and you would have a opponent who was a prosecutor and who would also be completely objective, unlike the defense attorney. We must now move away from this a little. Because we have a completely different reality. Right after a crime, threats and terror set in motion to destroy the possibility of a fair and impartial trial. People are frightened of silence. In this House we are talking about a lot of other things, from Crown Witnesses to anonymous witnesses. We're talking about witness protection and so on. All of this is also needed. But the question that we now have on the table is very important and will make a difference in the work of fairer judgments, where people can actually be judged on what they said early on. As has been pointed out in the past, the free examination of evidence and the evaluation of evidence are established regardless of the discussion on what reaches a witness certificate level or whether it relates to another document. I guess Gustaf Lantz has some points, after all. For the Liberals, it is clear. We support this. We also support the announcement. In the case of witness statements, the announcement is that consideration should be given to removing the requirement that both should have approved it before the trial, not to immediately implement it. It is never possible, as the government in the bill claims, to compare witness certificates in a dispute with witness certificates in a criminal case. It will have a slightly different character. Having said that, this is an important step. We will see further reforms on the Code of Criminal Procedure, I believe. I think it is time for an overall review, in fact. Not least, we will see more opportunities for video recordings and hearings, which we have learned now during the pandemic is working relatively well. There were elements in Swedish Radio about this today, where it was about the possibility of getting efficiency in, for example, detentions, where new technology can be used in a different way than when the so-called ‘new' procedural code entered into force in 1948. It was adopted by the Riksdag in 1942. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved with the announcements that are being made.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-603	Madam President, I would like This report, Reinforced punishment for violence and violations in close relations, is another step in the work against men's violence against women. Although the media debate on this has cooled down, our work has continued ahead and has not cooled off at all. We Social Democrats have two clear priorities in criminal policy: men's violence against women and gang crime. These two priorities are equivalent. Unfortunately, it is more difficult to get attention for the first question, but the work is ongoing. The last 25 years have seen a series of penalties tightened up in this area. More and more people in the judiciary are working with men's violence against women. But more needs to be done. This report contains punitive measures in respect of violations of peace and violation of a restraining order. But it is not a separate law for violent crimes. If you assault a woman grossly, you should be convicted of aggravated assault, as if the victim had been a man. Breach is about assault and other crimes that individually have a low penalty value but which, based on the fact that it is repeated and happens in close relationship, should be assessed harder. In addition, the bill contains changes that will result in more people being banned from contact and that electronic monitoring, so-called anklet, should be combined more often than today with the ban on contact. The government has developed a 40-point programme to work against men's violence against women. The action programme contains a number of measures to prevent violence, to provide stronger protection and support for women and children who are victims of violence, to combat crime more effectively and to improve knowledge and methods of combating violence by men against women. This program has a width that doesn't look alike. It is a package of measures that spans almost all perspectives on the issue – from prevention to protection, criminal law, custody and law enforcement. As an example, a few weeks ago the government commissioned an investigator to make proposals on how to strengthen criminal protection against psychological violence. Mental violence can be verbal abuse, ridicule, economic violence or other forms of controlling behaviour. The efforts we have made on the police have also enabled 350 new investigators to be recruited, focusing in particular on sexual crimes, violence in close relationships, violence against children and honour-related crimes. We have also given women's shelters increased resources. The proposal we are discussing today is another part of that work. Madam President, I would like It is beyond doubt that more needs to be done. We're going to have a zero vision of these crimes. Then we must fight and prevent them from happening. Men's violence against women and boys' violence against girls is one of our society's greatest problems. It's not something that's either new or come here. Our task as a citizen of society must be to do all we can to bring it to an end. I am convinced that all of us in here and many with us want violence to stop. There is a broad consensus on these issues. That's good. We must do everything we can to put an end to men's violence against women. And we must all, apart from seeing the woman affected, also see the man who strikes and responds to it. We really need to have a discussion about men's responsibilities. What values do we transfer to the next generation of boys? It is men who commit almost all crimes against women. It is also men who commit virtually all crimes against other men. In fact, it is men who commit virtually all crimes. 94% of all those in prison are men. Does it have to be like this? Of course not. But we must have the courage to tell the truth. If men's violence against women is to stop, men's behaviour must change. I think we agree here that the best battle is what never happens and that we should not have to have more bans on contact, more anklets and more restrictions on vulnerable women. But, Madam President, we are not yet there. Finally, in order to avoid any confusion as to where we Social Democrats stand, I would like to say that society should exist for everyone who needs protection and support, and anyone who beats, beats and oppresses or who otherwise restricts another person should be judged for that crime. Having said that, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 10. The proposal states that an extended ban on contact should be compatible with electronic monitoring as a first step. And the overall review proposed by the committee will also cover the issue of electronic monitoring.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-617	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Moderates to be approved with a number of reservations 14. Violence in close relationships must be combated with the greatest force in society. Magdalena Andersson says she wants to turn all the stones around, but today the Social Democrats are voting against important reforms to combat men's violence against women. Combating violence in close relationships is a priority for the Moderates. The majority of men's violence against women is committed by someone with whom the woman has or has had a close relationship. In 2020, 17 cases of fatal violence were identified where victims and perpetrators had a relationship at the time of the crime or earlier. And last spring, five women were killed within three weeks. Men's violence against women begins with guys' violence against girls. According to Brå, almost every fourth young girl has been subjected to crime in her relationship. Preventing violence and control in close relationships is part of the solution for combating men's violence against women. It is therefore very welcome that violence in close relations with young people is becoming increasingly prominent on the political agenda. Today, Parliament is voting on increased penalties for violence and other violations in close relations. It is to be welcomed that the minimum penalty for severe female poverty is tightened and that some improvements are introduced when it comes to a ban on contact. At the same time, many important reforms are lacking to provide society with better tools to combat relationship violence. The Moderates have several different suggestions. I choose to highlight some of them. The first proposal is that the Moderates want controlling behaviour to be criminalised. In the case of violence in close relationships, controlling behaviour is not uncommon. It may be that the partner is not allowed to go out on his own, is not allowed to spend time with family or friends or is not allowed to have a mobile phone or social media. Violence and control are normalizing, not least in young relationships. A specific offence, unlawful restriction of liberty, should therefore be introduced, which criminalises coercion and undue pressure aimed at controlling another person. That crime will lead to prison for three years. This is what the Moderates think. The second proposal is that a ban on residence should be imposed in the event of a crime against relatives. The sentenced person must then be prohibited from staying in, for example, a municipality or an entire county where the victim lives. At the same time, the stay ban shall prohibit the offender from contacting the victim. This, together with the announcement of the introduction of an extended geographical area for a restraining order, would seriously mean that it is the offender and not the victim who is to move. I can stay a little bit on this proposal. I want to tell you in this Chamber and to those of you who listen digitally that yesterday I talked to a woman who has had a stalker behind her for 14 years. At its worst, she had a laminated badge with her name and social security number in her pocket when she went out. If the person, the man, who was after her would find her when she had to go shopping for food or something like that and something would happen, people in the surroundings would know who was on the street. It's a matter of concern. Such conversations affect, and such conversations also reflect the reality in which many women live. The third proposal that I would like to highlight today is that electronic monitoring should be able to be used directly when a restraining order is issued. Joining the ban on contact with a anklet could lead to fewer people violating the ban on contact and thus leaving the victim more at peace. All the proposals I have now taken up are voted against by the Social Democrats. Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance for seven years and is therefore responsible for the development in Sweden. We note that developments and statistics are not moving in the right direction. Women's exposure to sex offences has increased sharply in recent years. At the same time, the proportion of rapes solved has decreased. According to the National Security Survey, just over one woman in three feels insecure outdoors in her own residential area at night. In 2013, 13 per cent of women reported taking another route home because they were worried about being subjected to crime. When we see the figure for today, we may even be terrified. Today, 40% of women say that they are taking another road home because they are worried about being subjected to crime. During her time as Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson has been reluctant to try model-breaking reforms to break the trend. Although she said in her election speech that the Social Democrats promised to turn all the stones around in order to overcome crime, the unwillingness seems to persist. It is not surprising that the Social Democrats are not able to deal with the escalating gang crime, but that the self-appointed feminist government does not seem to see the need for a common pool of forces against men's violence against women is directly bad for Swedish gender equality.
i-62pJaGEURqS25z2oeFo2g2	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservation number 2. Today we are debating violence and other violations in close relations, something that is urgent every day. I should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the fact that this time too we have managed to collect some of the results of some proposals which we are now sending as announcements to the government. That is very pleasing. These are proposals to increase the maximum sentence for violations of peace to ten years in prison, which is currently being dealt with for extremely serious assault. It is hardly a secret that the Swedish Democrats are quite fond of punitive measures. We see this as a major step in the right direction, although we believe that all the scales of penalties for serious crimes against persons should be tightened overall. The other proposals that have been announced in this report include, and to a large extent, a ban on contact. Today, the vast majority of applicants for this protection are rejected. In a monitoring report that came in spring 2020 and has looked at applications over time, one can see that the percentage of bans granted has actually decreased over time from 38 per cent in 2008 to 30 per cent in 2018. In the case of extended bans, there were little 27 granted throughout last year. One of all those who were refused a restraining order is 32-year-old Beata. She reported her husband of threats and violence, and in this connection she also applied for a restraining order. The request was rejected, and now Beata is lost without a trace. I would like to point out that I am not taking this up to point out individual cases or to condemn individual prosecutors, but to show a pattern that still seems to exist in our country. It still seems that an offender's right to contact is drumming the right of a victim to avoid being forced into the same contact. This, Madam President, is an equation that I do not get together. And even if a restraining order hadn't prevented Beata's disappearance, we can't possibly know-- I mean, her case is equally telling. That is why it is so extremely important that we now send announcements to the government that an investigation with the task of reviewing the law on the prohibition of contact should be carried out. The investigation will consider and make suggestions on how to issue a restraining order in more situations than today. In addition, the investigation will also make suggestions on how to use electronic monitoring of restraining orders more frequently, especially in cases of violence in close relationships. We know that this is a great need. Finally, the investigation should make suggestions on how to increase the frequency of the use of specifically extended bans and how to extend the geographical area of this type of ban to a wider area than is currently the case. I am convinced that all of this, combined, will contribute to improved protection for victims of violence, which is certainly much needed. Finally, Madam President, all of us in Sweden must start to look at these crimes for what they actually are: very serious and serious crime, which kills lives every year and as if they had taken place on the open street, should have received as much attention as gang crime today. That is not the case today, however, but we cannot close our eyes. Behind every night black news headline is a human being who it was everyone's responsibility to protect. For God's sake, let us never forget the man behind!
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-638	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating Louise Meijer, who is very good at presenting many of the important proposals that we are going to take a decision on here today. In her speech, she also mentions that many women choose another way home. I will tell you about this perhaps the first time that the extremely serious nature of the issue really sank into me. I'm a little ashamed that it took so long, but it was when I attended a seminar arranged by the Center Women that I got this insight into life, namely that many women avoid taking a certain route home. You have a key in your hand. You hurry and you run home from the bus. But science, research, statistics and all the facts show that the most dangerous place a woman can stay is her own home. It is extremely gratifying that there is still momentum on this hugely important issue of society. What we call violence in close relationships has for far too long gone a little under the radar. It has not been the subject of enough attention from us in politics, it has not been sufficiently rewritten in the media and it is still, in this year of grace in 2021, with a great deal of shame and self-imposed guilt on the victim. Last spring, this was going to change a little bit. Several party leaders took the floor. The subject became interesting enough to penetrate the noise, and I expressed my great gratitude to all of you for the support you showed to the Center Party's proposals in this area. We got a lot through, and a lot of what we agreed on is actually delivered today. Thank you for that! A proposal which we did not get a majority for at the time and on which we were actually alone with was an idea of criminalising what is called controlling behaviour, that is, systematic violations, mainly for control purposes, which, individually, may not be regarded as punishable but which, taken together and over time, gradually shift the limit of what is reasonable in a healthy relationship. Madam President, I would like In a number of areas we know how important it is to be able to act early, before it is too late, so also in this area. It is important to be able to act before an unhealthy relationship escalates into a deeply dysfunctional relationship where violence becomes everyday and where severe danger – danger of life – becomes part of the increasingly fragile life, where the victim's self-esteem is driven to the bottom and she no longer feels any hope. It would be extremely valuable to be able to capture such situations before they go too far. It gives condemned persons the opportunity to participate in relapse prevention programmes, and the victim has the opportunity to start building a safe life again before this life is completely destroyed. Then, of course, a great deal of action must be taken in many ways to combat violence in close relationships, but criminalising controlling behaviour would be an important tool in the search for what the Center Party wants: a zero vision of violence in close relationships. From being alone in this, there is now almost a majority in favour of the proposal. The other alliance parties agree that this would be a good idea, as would the Left Party. The Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party have the smallest possible majority against. In a way, I can understand why the government parties say no. I'm sure they find more announcements difficult. But if the government does not develop good enough policies, then the rest of us must do so. The Swedish Democrats, who usually try to make a number of them tough on crime and who never hesitate when it comes to going forward with repressive proposals whether they might have any effect or not, say no. Hopefully there will also be a change on this point. This type of legislation has been used in the UK for some years. The figures I have have a couple of years on my neck, but in 2017 and 2018, at least 9,000 charges were brought. It is a law that is used and that can literally become a vital break of an escalating situation. I would like to endorse Amendment No 12, which deals with this very issue. Madam President, I would like Today we are getting through some important points. What we got a majority for this spring is one of them, that is to say, a penalty for gross women's freedom from nine to twelve months in prison. A friend of order may wonder what effect three months may have. I don't think anyone thinks that the additional sentence period will prevent anyone from committing these crimes, but the police and prosecutors will have more money to work with. For example, a medical journal may be requested that can show damage from assault. In almost all cases, the victim is required to take part in the judicial process in order to obtain convictions for such crimes. Not often do you regret it, and complaints are withdrawn. But with other evidence, a preliminary investigation can still proceed, and when the victim feels that there is actually a process going on, that it is people who actually work with what you are exposed to every day, the step to participate can feel somewhat less. No one should think that any of this is easy. We need to understand what it takes for a person to choose to break up, to perhaps be forced to turn his life upside down and, if you have children, even the lives of the children. It is about living with protected identity, moving from place to place and still having to be afraid that society does not fulfil its clear duty: to keep you safe. It would be difficult for anyone. It would be difficult for someone who feels good and strong. Then imagine being able to do it when self-esteem is in the bottom and it doesn't feel like there is energy for anything except perhaps trying to hide from the environment how you really have it. That is not the way we can seriously do it, Madam President. A couple of further and important reforms are in place, including the possibility of electronic monitoring of contact bans. What is not in place today, but which we have a majority in favour of the government moving forward with, is to extend the possibility of imposing a restraining order. It will not stop everyone, but it provides a legal basis for intervention. I am happy and grateful for what we are deciding on today, but we need to go further. We need to work harder and develop new and better ideas on how to curb this kind of crime. We need operational power and leadership to turn ideas into well-designed laws. Last but not least, we need to steer our law enforcement agencies in a way that allows us to expect much better results when it comes to violence in close relationships.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-655	Madam President, I would like These are urgent reforms that are on the table regarding a stronger view of violence and other violations in close relations, which are largely about men's various forms of violence against women and children. The Left Party does not, in principle, appreciate punitive measures, nor research. There is no evidence that they would have a strong effect. However, in this case, and in some other cases, more severe penalties can contribute to important effects that are a stronger priority, for example in the judicial system, to increased resources for investigating crimes or to providing greater protection for victims. That is why we are in favour of the reform to tighten the penalties for violations of peace. We are also in favour of the changes that should be made to the bans on contact. I call for the approval of reservation 12, which I hope will bring about an important change in the violation of peace in terms of including controlling behaviour. Today we have talked a lot about victims, and they are also the focus of these crimes. I will not say that the punishment is irrelevant to them, but the most important thing is that responsibility for committed acts and crimes is placed on the offender in order to remove the guilt and shame of those who are victims, who are experienced by many victims. It is most common when it comes to violations and abuse in close relationships that women and children can feel guilt and shame on their own part while someone else should be responsible for the guilt and shame. These are important reforms, but it will take a great deal more to deal with the issues raised by men's violence against women and children. The bill indicates that this issue is no longer just a private matter, but is also the responsibility of society. There are strong demands that society takes responsibility, that is, that the authorities act. We must prevent, prevent and protect those who are exposed – yes, of course! Unfortunately, that is not the case. The abuse has been highlighted by a strong women's movement since the 1970s, but there is still a large and increasing vulnerability. The deadly violence means that every three weeks a woman in Sweden is killed by a man she has or has had a close relationship with. A woman every three weeks – constantly. And periodically there are many more. Sometimes research data comes out in lightning. Metoo shook a lot of people. But apparently we need to be shaken over and over again to understand the seriousness. Unfortunately, vulnerability among young people increases. It has not improved for young generations, as we had hoped. Why is that? I've been thinking a lot in different contexts. It's a paradox. There are lots of women who are exposed. Every other woman has experienced violence from a man during her life course. Every third woman has done so in a close relationship. Every fifth child has experienced violence in his or her home, and every tenth child often does. This is terrible! But it is often that we keep this from us; it concerns others. But the violence is going on in our midst. Many say that they do not know anyone who has been exposed. But you probably do, but you don't know it. Here is the paradox; violence is common, but we do not think it is close to us. But when we talk about the crimes, it appears that many are or have been victims, perhaps ongoing, perhaps earlier, but they have not been able to process their experiences. They are unable to hear it at their workplace or take responsibility for other vulnerable people in their profession. They could be blocked. Then there may not be as many men as are perpetrators, but there are many of them. There is what is often called active passive resistance, in that the issues must not be placed at the top of the agenda. They are forgotten, or there are other things that happen to be more important. We can get back to the question of whether or not the police bring video cameras. Do they happen to forget them? What do we want with our reforms? We have to deal with the paradox. The bill can lead to more opportunities for police and prosecutors to obtain evidence in the form of legal certificates and medical records. In this way, the crime can be better documented. We also need to change what is considered a crime. The Left Party is among those who act, and we have raised early motions about controlling behaviour. We want to mark reservation 12 as extremely important. I think most of you can understand what controlling behavior means. It may be that you are isolated, you are not allowed to spend time with the person you want, you must not dress as you want, you must not laugh at parties as you want and you can be ridiculed in front of others. Many women are greatly humiliated. But such behavior may also involve control of women's finances. The husband ensures that the woman is not allowed to use earned wages in the way she wishes or wants to. What we more associate with physical violence or sexual violence in these relationships rarely starts with physical or sexual violence but often starts with controlling behaviour. Many women say that they were not surprised when the violence came because there was much to limit them earlier, and they understood that the border would soon be reached and hit them in the form of violence. I would like to come back to the fact that, in the debate on controlling behaviour, the basic idea was when the Kvinnofrid report was presented in 1995 that the question of controlling behaviour should be at the heart of the legislative text, but law and politics did not agree at the time. They thought it was too vague. However, it was built very clearly on how it starts with control and that it is a need for power. It was also based on what we now accept to call the gender power regime and that it is the male norm that is involved in governing and affecting women here. I would also like to say that we may have to look at this a bit historically with psychological effects. As long as men alone had power over the legislation, it was very often that they felt that physical violence was the worst. As women, we think that sexual violence is even worse, and the very worst are the wounds you carry inside. Nor do you need to be a woman to feel; you can react the same way to violations that even men are exposed to. However, we must act against controlling behaviour now and finally put our foot down in the way that was meant by women's peace from the start. It is also about how to control children in close relationships, I would say. The women's reforms were groundbreaking in their own way, but they are, as you understand, not finished. They are not fixed and not yet effective enough. However, I think that we have a great deal to gain from the fact that we are dealing with controlling behaviour and criminalising it. I would also like to say that this is far from finished. What we, the Left Party, want to act for – and we have mentioned in motions that it is needed – is an increase in the competence of violence, not least throughout the judiciary. We hope that decisions can also be taken on such important issues in this House.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-673	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is good to see that the Moderates and the Left Party, perhaps a little surprising, are making common ground on a criminal policy issue. It is, of course, about the will to criminalise controlling behaviour, as Gudrun Nordborg talked a lot about in his speech. However, I have some questions about other positions regarding this bill and the position of the Left Party. It is widely known – we have heard it in the debates since before, and it has emerged during the day – that the Left Party is not very alert to punitive measures. Increased penalties do not lead to a reduction in crime, and being in prison does not make any less criminal, they say. I wonder why that perspective does not apply when it comes to gross women's freedom. Today, the Left Party wants to raise the minimum penalty from nine months to one year's imprisonment, which I naturally warmly welcome. The Left Party agrees to this, and it agrees to more stringent penalties for violations of a restraining order. At the same time, however, there is still the view that more stringent penalties do not lead to a reduction in criminality. I am rather curious: how is it that we support punitive measures in this area, but otherwise the worst is against them?
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-676	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I thought I presented backgrounds in my speech, but if we can see that there are clear gains with a penalty increase, we can accept that this is happening. In this case, it is a matter of giving signals to the judiciary regarding proportionality – that these crimes are much more important than they seem in relation to the attention they receive today. It also opens up new means of proof, which makes it easier for victims of crime to have direct contact with the health services and obtain legal documents on injuries. When it comes to the restraining order, we also see that it is definitely the case that the police and prosecutors have been very lax in keeping with violations of the restraining order. There are several horrors where people have been repeatedly allowed to break a restraining order without anything happening. I even think that the prosecutors in their own account of how they have handled the restraining orders expressed that it showed a laxity. We also believe that there is a need for a mark to address these issues and to mark against those men who are prepared to violate the bans to have consequences. In some cases, then, we feel that punishment is not completely useless, but we do not gain anything by constantly increasing the penalty level.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-679	Madam President, I would like I thank Gudrun Nordborg, the Left Party, for the answer! When I listened to her, it sounded almost like a description of the Moderates' general view when it comes to law and order, namely that there are clear gains in punitive measures. The first argument put forward by Gudrun Nordborg of the Left Party was proportionality. I'll tell you on that check-- so do we. But this applies not only to relationship violence but also to other matters. The second argument was that punitive measures lead to new tools that prosecutors and police can use and make it easier for the victim. I'll tell you what, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, I therefore, of course, welcome the Left Party's view on this issue, but I would have liked it to be possible to extend this approach to law and order in general. There are still some questions. For example, the Left Party is still in favour of penalty rebates, i.e. you can abuse a woman twice but only be punished for once. One can subject a partner to assault and be 20 years old but still receive a severe penalty discount, in the opinion of the Left Party. If I am not misinformed, the Left Party is also still in favour of an earlier and shorter parole, which would speed up the entry into the streets of perpetrators and victims of violence in close relationships. This doesn't make any sense. I would like to ask the Left Party once again whether it is possible to make some adjustments in its view of crime and punishment and law and order. Then perhaps we can go forward with even more proportionate penalties and even more new tools for police and prosecutors, so that victims can get redress.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-685	Madam President, I would like Here I will not please you, Louise Meijer. We in the Left Party have a solid foundation for our vision. The main argument is that all research suggests that longer sentences have no effect. We are not saying that we would have complete impunity, but we do not believe in punishment in the same way as in the general mantra that you fix a certain problem if you raise the penalty. We think it is an extremely strange conservative rhetoric that is very much governed by the Swedish Democrats. What if we were to invest the money and all the resources that are going to prison today – where we are not sure they have an impact – on social interventions, protective measures, good schools, good preschools and social reforms? These are the reasons why we do not have such major divisions in society. Clefts provoke crime in various forms and wear on people so that they cannot cope with their everyday lives. We want these reforms and we want to spend money on them, above all. Then it is not only possible to look at a criminality that is going on, but we want to act with the means of criminal policy – in part also with penalties. But we're hoping for other means. For example, the foot buoy is an alternative to prison that could be used in several other contexts as well.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-689	Madam President, I would like It is indeed time to pronounce a zero vision against violence in close relationships. Violence against women is the ultimate proof of a society where equality and security for all do not apply. Violence against women affects women not only directly but also indirectly because fear restricts freedom. Violence against women in Sweden has increased. This applies to both the number of reported rapes as well as violence in close relationships and honor-related crime. At the same time, the clearance rate is low and the darkness rate is high. A pool of forces is needed to stop violence against women. However, words are not enough; action is needed. A series of new measures to prevent this violence and protect women from it must be taken. Cooperation between authorities and stakeholders needs to be improved and deepened and management more effectively. More efforts, follow-up and long-term support are needed. It is therefore important that issues of violence are actively raised by healthcare, dental care, preschool, school, social services and law enforcement authorities to detect and help victims out of the violence. The Christian Democrats welcome the government's proposal to strengthen penalties for violence and other violations in close relations. The Christian Democrats also welcome the proposed changes to the ban on contact. At the same time, we note that several of the proposals presented today by the Government should have been introduced several years ago. It is remarkable that a government that calls itself feminist has waited so long to implement strong measures that face the violence that we unfortunately see continuing examples of in our society. The Christian Democrats also see that the bill, which aims to combat violence in close relations, needs to be supplemented by several proposals. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that the limit of compulsory detention should be reduced to a penalty of one year in prison. This change, together with the proposed tightening up of penalties, would mean that persons suspected of serious women's poverty would, as a rule, be detained. A change to compulsory detention of persons suspected of serious women's poverty means greater protection for the victim by arresting a violent man and thus keeping him away from the home directly related to the crime. The rapid detention of perpetrators of violence protects vulnerable women. On that basis, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 13. Madam President, I would like Today, a man who has abused or harassed a woman can be banned from staying in the common home or in an area by means of an extended restraining order. Contact bans need to be used in more cases than so far. We believe that there should be the possibility of a contact ban extended to larger zones, such as a whole municipality or, in specific cases, several municipalities. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee is sending a notice to the government with mandates on how a specifically extended ban on contact can be used more often, even as a first-hand measure, and more clearly than today to cover a wider geographical area. Madam President, I would like The penalties for non-compliance with a restraining order also need to be tightened. It is not good enough that infringement of a restraining order often only imposes fines as a penalty. The penalty needs to be tightened up. We believe that physical violations of a restraining order should always involve imprisonment and that other violations should result in prison to a greater extent than they do today. According to the Swedish Prosecution Authority's statistics from 2019, electronic anklets are used in the case of a restraining order to a very small extent. In addition, this is never used for a so-called ordinary restraining order, which is the most common type. This is remarkable. Electronic anklet increases the ability to ensure that the contact ban is complied with. In this way, the security and quality of life of the threatened woman can be improved. Therefore, the anklet needs to be used directly in many more cases where a restraining order is issued, and it should always be considered in the case of an ordinary restraining order. Here, too, the majority of the committee is calling for an announcement to the government that electronic monitoring should always be possible in connection with a restraining order and that consideration should be given to whether electronic monitoring should be mandatory in the event of a ban on contact due to serious crimes in a close relationship. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats, of course, also give our support to the other two announcements agreed by a majority of committees. We welcome the increase in the minimum penalty for violations of peace, but in order to further inculcate the seriousness of society's view of this type of crime, which is often committed by men against women in their homes, sometimes with a fatal outcome, the maximum penalty for the crime should also be increased. Like a united committee, we also believe that it is too difficult today for those who are victims of violence or other violations in a close relationship to have an application for a restraining order granted and that the bill does not fully address this deficiency. There is therefore reason to carry out a comprehensive review of the law on the prohibition of contact, with the focus on the prohibition of contact in more situations than at present. In addition to the measures highlighted in the announcements that I have touched upon, we in the Christian Democrats see that the protection package that threatened women can receive today is not always enough. For example, in order to ensure the safety and safety of threatened women, they should be offered a safety package consisting of – as we suggest – alarms, the right to carry and use pepper sprays and an offer of self-defense training. This would mean that women can feel more secure when they move outside. Madam President, I would like In order to strengthen the protection against violence and other violations in close relations, the Government has proposed legislative changes to strengthen the penalties. Our society has a great responsibility to combat violence in close relationships. This is violence that mainly affects women. This bill takes a step along the way, but Sweden's women deserve to be able to feel more secure. As I have highlighted, there is a need for further action – in addition to the measures proposed in the bill – to counter the violence in close relationships that we can see in our society. The Christian Democrats, as I have said, support the four announcements. I request the approval of reservation 13.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-706	Madam President, I would like Liberals support the proposals contained in the government's report to strengthen the work against young guys' violence against young girls, men's violence against women, honour-related violence and repression, and violence against children. This is very much a central issue of freedom. It is a matter of serious crime, but as long as we do not get to the violence, it is also an extreme restriction on freedom for every woman and every child who is affected. It is the home that is the worst crime scene for women and children. We put the key in the door in the place where we should all feel safe. We can have a tough time in this Chamber—we can disagree, and we may not get our budgets together— but I think we all appreciate being able to breathe out when we put the key in the door at home. However, that is exactly where the tension begins. But it is not just at home that tension exists. It's also about when you're a kid in school-- you don't know what's coming to you. It's about when, as an adult, you're at your place of work and you're afraid to go home. The text is hailing in, and the control is in the entire life space. It is incredibly important that we work preventively. Some of us have been into early intervention. It is also about visibility. Mr Kihlström has just spoken about asking questions. How can we make visible the violence around us both in children and in adults? These are measures such as tightening penalties, which we are debating in this House today. But it is also about efforts when a person is convicted so that the prison services can take measures to change behaviours that harm so much. I listened to Maria Strömkvist from the Social Democrats, who mentioned men's violence against women eight times – I had to count – and honour-related violence and repression once when it came to the police's mission. It is important that we talk about all these aspects of prevention. Many of the efforts that exist today in our society are based on the vulnerability of the majority society and do not reach all children and young people. If we are serious, we must make all the vulnerability and all the violence that prevails visible in every situation. There are many similarities but also signs that differ. What the government is referring to in the report, we support, but that is far from enough. We know that the number of darkness is huge. 80% of women and children exposed to violence are not reported. But the better we get at developing measures, the greater the chance to dare to feel that I get the security to know that when I get the question I dare to tell you about my situation. I also know that there is a society where authorities will protect me and give me the support that I need and have the right to. That is not exactly what it looks like today. I believe that we are, to a large extent, in a system that does not really work, that there is a lack of overall thinking. Brandtal here from various ministers is important. I do not think there is anyone in this House who thinks that young guys' violence against young girls, men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression or violence against children is something we can accept – far from it. It is also important that we really talk to each other, that there is a structure that makes one hand know what the other is doing and that there is support for civil society and women's shelters. The important efforts made on the women's shelter movement do not go to what is the core mission, to give shelter over the head and to provide the support and security that you need most when you are forced to break up from a violent man. It is a little strange that you can then apply for money for other things, which are certainly important, for opinion work, education and so on. It's a bit like a homeless person getting a grant for pots and curtains before you have a home to use it in. I think it is important that together we really see the need for the positions of the authorities and the important role of civil society and that we, from the political side, which does not even deal with matters, get the coordination that is missing. It is also about how we take a stand on these issues. Then I come to the question of a ban on contact with electronic surveillance and, as many people have been in this area, the geographical area. If you as a violent woman or child are to feel confident that no one can come and do you harm, it is important that the geographical area allows the police to arrive in time. This is also something that prosecutors testify to in interviews that we can share in the media. It is said that there is a risk that the ban on contact will become a false security. Here, I think the proposal contained in the report needs to be prepared urgently. I talked to a woman who lives in the north of Sweden, where there are huge distances and quite few police officers. It's clear to her that freedom will be complete. I understand the reasoning that has been taken when one does not take a stand, namely how much one can restrict the freedom of the perpetrator. As the report says, when women with children have been placed in a terrible situation, where violence has been experienced for a long time, then report and take help, they get a neighbourhood. It is completely unworthy that it should be done that way. From the Liberals' side we think it is obvious that it should be about municipalities but also about geographical areas based on what the threat picture looks like, what the opportunity is to get through and how to give freedom to those who have lived in vulnerability for so long. From the Liberals' side, we believe that all kinds of criminal acts should be the basis for judging an perpetrator for both gross violations of peace and gross violations of women's rights. It is only a matter of taking as a starting point what is already said today: o m each of the acts has been part of a repeated violation of the person's integrity and if the acts have been designed to seriously damage the person's self-esteem. The Gudrun Nordborg of the Left Party referred to what was originally thought of with the whole proposal. Then the law was not there, but today we understand in a completely different way. I would also like us to take up the possibility that any action with this aim could be part of the violation of peace and gross violation of women's rights. Then we come to the children in these situations. We have now introduced a child peace crime. Nevertheless, we have not got to the issue of custody, housing and association, which is so central in this context. Central to a woman taking the step of reporting a violent man is that she is guaranteed that her child will not have to live with the perpetrator without being there to protect the child. It is also about women who are entitled to protection but who also have the obligation to allow the child to come to a relationship that can have terrible consequences. We all know that it is precisely in connection with break-up processes that the risk of violence escalating is even greater. See the bigger picture, see the children and how they are affected! But see also the right and opportunity of violent women to take the step and answer the question that is being asked and then get the protection and support that they are entitled to and need! Liberals support all reservations, but only support reservation 7.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-724	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Juno Blom! I think you said a lot of wise things that I think we can all agree on. You also built up a larger panorama of problems that we have to deal with. But what I'm thinking about is why the Liberals didn't agree with the text that controlling behavior should be included in the crimes of women's peace and peace.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-725	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. I haven't gotten that far so I can pry out the answers. If I had sat on the Justice Committee and pushed on in this part, we might have got this through. However, I would like to say that I, who have worked many years against honour-related violence and oppression, know how control limits the entire life space and freedom space. The reason why we do not support it is rather that we have to get it as a support from everyone. But personally, you have my vote because it should be. That's my answer.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-728	Madam President, I would like I'm glad you're buying it, Juno Blom. I know you have insights and have been working on these issues for a long time, and we have sometimes done it together. It often starts with controlling behavior. The reason the Left Party has been eager to highlight this is that it could have an educational point and become a warning bell for a wider public so that more people react to controlling behavior and at best can help end a destructive relationship. I'm curious to know what you're thinking because you want all the criminal acts in the violation of peace. So far, controlling behavior is not criminalized, so it's not covered. But when you say all the works, what do you gain by having it so wide? Here many, not least the Law Council, for which I as a lawyer have some respect, have indicated and said that you cannot go that far.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-731	Madam President, I would like It says that the purpose of the action should be to damage another person's integrity. If someone is driving too fast and the person who is involved in a femininity crime is not near the car, that act is not relevant. But it could be economic issues or, as we talked about, psychological abuse. When proving a crime, one must be able to claim that the purpose was to damage the other person's integrity and self-esteem. Of course, crimes can be committed that never fit within this framework. However, there are many ways of violating a person, so we believe it is important to broaden the possibility of doing so. I think the law can tell the difference between driving too fast or having a parking ticket and systematically hurting a person financially or through psychological violations, and we believe that this should be possible to try.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-734	Madam President, I would like One day the police called. Your ex will be released from custody. Pack the most important things. Don't be home when he gets home. ..................................................... This is one of many stories that women who have fled their homes and who live hidden in Sweden have shared with me and my colleagues in the Riksdag. We have met women who have been forced to flee their homes because they are subjected to violence by a close man, a man whom they have chosen to leave, sometimes in danger of their own lives. Many people ask why they have not left the men, but I ask: Why does society force them to flee? Why should their freedom be restricted? Why don't we limit the perpetrators more? Madam President, I would like In 2018, the House voted in favour of strengthening the law on the prohibition of contact. More people would get a anklet. That's not what happened. Why? Well, the crime was usually not considered serious enough. We must work tirelessly at all levels, within all parties and in all civil society organisations to shift perspectives. It's not good enough that it's not considered serious enough. Madam President, I would like I am concerned that time and again we will have to insist on stricter rules. However, I am pleased that there is broad agreement in this House for this very thing. The government has presented a package of 40 points to step up work against men's violence against women, and many parties have contributed. Today we are ticking off paragraphs 25, 26, 27 and 28. We're tightening up the punishments for gross femininity. They should no longer be just fines, and it should no longer be a criminal offence to break a restraining order if it is not considered sufficiently serious. We will see to it that the penalty for gross women's freedom is raised to one year's imprisonment and that fewer women will have to flee their homes. It should not be so difficult for society to restrict the perpetrator's freedom and right to come home. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we will have to make this choice in case after case. Whose rights weigh the heaviest? Is it the rights of women and children to freedom from violence, their right to remain at home and their right not to be afraid that weighs most? Or is it the right of the perpetrator not to be restricted? Madam President, I would like Many parties come up with good proposals, but I think some proposals can hit back, not least in view of the experience we had after 2018 that many cases were not judged as serious enough. I am afraid that if we implement the proposal in today's report that it should always be a anklet, it will be even more often judged not to be serious enough even for a ban on contact. It would be absolutely devastating if fewer women than today were banned from contact. We need to be careful about the consequences of well-meaning proposals, and I would therefore like to call for the approval of Amendment No 10 in that part, pending the completion of the feminist work to change vision and assessments. We in the Green Party would have liked to go further on a number of points. We wanted to tighten the penalty for gross female freedom to two years in prison, for this would have led to the perpetrators of serious suspicion being arrested. It would have provided greater security, and fewer women would have had to flee to sheltered accommodations. But now the penalty is being raised to one year, and that is a step in the right direction. Madam President, I would like As I said, however, I am convinced that this is not the last time we will be in this House discussing these issues, because more will have to be done. Madam President, I would like I am proud to belong to the Green Party, which is part of Sweden's feminist government. I would like to conclude with a little reading aloud to give an overall picture of my and the government's to-do list from the 40-point program. It is a whole in which we look both at preventive measures and at criminal law measures. It is a long-term work with clear objectives and follow-up, with national violence prevention programmes, competence efforts in schools regarding men's violence against women, information about the consent law, stopping guys' violence against girls and violence in young people's relationships, preventive work in sports, long-term conditions for women's and girls' shelters and stronger protection for children against parents who have practiced violence. The National Centre for Women's Peace at Uppsala University is strengthened, and in terms of vulnerability, protection and support for persons involved in pornography is improved. We strengthen protection in the event of a broken connection and the right of victims of violence to their own housing. We increase opportunities for women's shelters in procurement, and we will strengthen the work of social services against men's violence against women, improve care for victims of violence and strengthen work against prostitution and human trafficking and children's criminal protection against sexual abuse. Anyone who is the victim of sex purchases should be considered a victim of crime, and we will introduce a new penalty for hatred of women, criminal liability for psychological violence, stricter rules on conditional release and prohibition of residence and increased opportunities for early interrogations, which have also been debated today. We're going to allow the seizure of messages between loved ones in the event of serious femininity and review the penalty for multiple crime. We are now ticking off paragraph 25 on making it easier to issue more contact bans and paragraph 26 on increased penalties for those who violate a restraining order. There will be more stringent penalties for gross female defamation and easier to put a anklet on the persecuting woman. Then we will also increase the quality of legal certificates, increase the fee to the Victims Fund, improve the treatment of persons convicted of sexual offences, tighten the penalties for rape and sex purchases, improve the efforts of the police on mental illness, improve criminal statistics, identify violence in close relationships, clarify the management of the prosecutor and the police, improve the skills of professionals, map the research field and increase knowledge of the situation of people living with protected personal data.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-754	Madam President, I would like It was a nice list that Annika Hirvonen lined up at the end of her speech. Let us dwell a little on it, specifically paragraph 23 on the seizure ban between loved ones. Annika Hirvonen belongs to the Green Party, which is in the government and has been doing so since 2014. It's kind of a long time. Yet it sounds at Annika Hirvonen that when she was told in 2018 that several restraining orders were not granted because they were not seen as serious enough situations for there to be a restraining order. Then it was shocking, but this is politics that Annika Hirvonen is responsible for. It is, of course, her party that sits in the government and decides when a restraining order is to be issued and what situations, according to the legislation, can be said to be serious enough for them to impose a restraining order. This is something for which the government is responsible. Returning to paragraph 23 on the seizure ban between relatives, as Annika himself mentioned the list in her speech, the investigation has suggested exactly how to deal with, for example, evidence between persons or from a victim who is beaten by his partner. It is a serious violation of women's rights that we are now going to tighten the penalties for. In order to allow evidence to be included in text messages in such a situation, the legislation needs to be amended. Such a proposal has been in place since 2017. It's in item 23 on Annika's list, which she was talking about. I wonder why the government has not put forward the proposal. It's done, and it's just a matter of sending a law-enforcement suspect. Push it through! You have strong support for this in Parliament, Annika Hirvonen, but you do not. It is a little strange that the government does not have the power and energy to pursue a legal policy in order to deal with Sweden's problems.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-758	Madam President, I would like In 2018, we decided to amend the law on the ban on contact, because we wanted more bans on contact to be combined with a anklet. When it was evaluated a few years later, it turned out that this had not happened. It is not the government that decides whether anyone should be banned from contact with the anklet, but the government has tabled a bill. Parliament decides on the law, but then it is the prosecutor who has to make decisions in the individual case. That is where they assess whether the requirements are met. It is simply there that an evaluation has concluded that it has not been considered sufficiently serious in enough cases. That is why we are now coming up with further amendments to the law on the restraining order, because we think it should be a anklet in more cases. With regard to the issue of paragraph 23 of the 40-point programme, which was presented two days before this House deposed Stefan Lövven's government this summer, it is a promise from the government that this will be presented. I think Louise Meijer may ask the government how it is that it has not yet been left behind, but the promise is that it will be presented. We will at least have to wait until we no longer have a transitional government, for such a government must not bring forward new political reforms unless they are judged strictly necessary in the sense of the law, for example because of a crisis.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-761	Madam President, I would like Now I asked a representative of the Green Party, so I thought one could expect an answer. No, the government is thankfully not a prosecutor. It is too well, for then it would not have been prosecuted for very many crimes, if the government had had had the same tempo there as it has in legislative matters. But the prosecutors comply with the law, and the law is decided by the Riksdag on the initiative of the government, where Annika Hirvonen's party sits. It is then up to the government to put forward proposals for more people who are banned from contact, for example, also to wear a anklet. It has been mentioned by the Green Party several times in this debate that it has a desire that more people who are banned from contact should also have a anklet. After all, it is great that a representative of a government party says this, because it is precisely the government that has the legislative power and the legislative initiative on this issue. It is even so well that the Moderates have a proposal for precisely what the government representative Annika Hirvonen is asking here, namely that electronic monitoring, i.e. the anklet, should be able to be used immediately when a contact ban is updated. This is what the Moderates want, and we are trying to push for that. It seems that the Green Party, and therefore one of the government parties, also thinks so, but yet they are voting against the Moderates' proposals in this House today. I find that very strange, because, on the one hand, as a government, you cannot be responsible and think and want things and, on the other hand, you cannot vote for what you say you want. Surely we cannot do that, but we must do what we think when we are in the government.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-766	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer was chatting during my speech, so I think she might have missed what I said. Because in the bill we are doing what Louise Meijer is asking for. When the law change from 2018 did not turn out well in practice, we change the law again. That is exactly how it must be done if it is not applied as it should be. We cannot go into detail on the individual cases, but, as Louise Meijer says, we must use the legislation. And that's what we're doing here. The dividing line goes between if you think that we should remove the ordinary bans on contact, where it is not a anklet, and say that it should always be a anklet. My concern, if one were to do so, is that in practice there would be fewer bans on contact granted. I think this would be very unfortunate.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-768	Madam President, I would like I'll just make a correction. It was nice that I was clear in my speech, because I have really worked with controlling behaviour. I had some concern that my Liberal friend, Johan Pehrson, had not followed up on that reservation. But everyone can read that we've done it. Not only do I think controlling behaviour is wrong, but Johan Pehrson is clear. So the Gudrun Nordborg of the Left Party was wrong about this. I just wanted to clarify this, and I won't go home and yell at Johan Pehrson. We all agree.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-770	Madam President, I would like I requested a line to apologize. It was a big mistake, and it'll have to be a lark grant for me to double-check. When I checked earlier, the Liberals weren't on the list. But now it's black and white. And Juno Blom is quite right that you supported this, and I am delighted.
i-5a88c9462f80f70f-771	Madam President, I would like It's okay. The most important thing is that we make a difference for children and young people, that we dare to take a stand and that we push together. The most important thing is that we act.
