i-f932c7177354e457-5	Madam President, I would like On 3 March last year, Sweden received its first death linked to covid-l9. Today, a year and two months later, more than 14,000 people have had to live here in Sweden. This, of course, is an enormous tragedy and a failure for our entire society, which will set a deep mark for a long time to come. Madam President, I would like Today, we are going to take a position on the continued validity of the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites. The Government has proposed that the Act should continue to apply until the end of September 2021. The law is therefore time-limited and has been extended once before. Madam President, I would like Since the pandemic is now going on with full force and Sweden has Europe's highest spread of infection in society, which means that healthcare is under very heavy pressure, it is important that the temporary law is extended. This is something that we Swedish democrats support, not because we believe it is optimal to continue to impose restrictions on sectors and activities that have already been severely affected during the pandemic, but because we believe that it is necessary to repress the widespread spread of infection in society. This is precisely what the government and the responsible authorities have failed to do, Madam President, to suppress the spread of disease in society. In fact, they are responsible for the situation in Sweden today. When other countries, not least our Nordic neighbours, begin to remove their restrictions, Sweden unfortunately has to extend its restrictions. Madam President, I would like However, we see some shortcomings that we believe should be addressed in the legislative proposal. We believe that the application would have worked better if the government's proposal had contained the measures contained in our accompanying motion. Let me give you a few examples here. When deciding to develop disease control measures, it is important to have a good and open dialogue with authorities and relevant sectors, not least in these times. Therefore, it is important that both regulations and general advice are developed in close cooperation with those who run restaurants, cafés and cafés – all in order to ensure that the law is as predictable as possible for everyone involved. It will then also be more effective from the point of view of disease protection. In addition, Madam President, we believe that there should be more opportunities to make more local and regional adjustments depending on the pandemic and the state of the infection at the moment. It would mean greater confidence in the measures if they were more linked to the situation of the spread of infection in a particular place in the country. As we know, it differs depending on where in the country you are. Madam President, I would like The proposed law will have a negative economic impact on restaurants, cafés and cafés, usually due to delays in payment of compensation. This, of course, can have a major impact on companies and businesses. It is therefore important to create both predictability for the industry and the conditions for the Riksdag to quickly decide on the necessary compensation. We therefore believe that the Riksdag should stress the need for the Government, in connection with decisions that affect individuals, to report as a matter of urgency what measures are necessary to provide support to sectors that are affected. The main rule should be to propose compensation for individuals who are financially affected. In this way, we can have a regulatory framework that inspires trust and works for all concerned. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that this dossier nevertheless shows that the sectors concerned can quickly change and function in a very difficult and vulnerable situation. They're supposed to have a lot of praise for that. However, we from the Riksdag must also do our part to ensure that the industries can do this in the best way possible. I commend our reservation 2.
i-f932c7177354e457-15	Madam President, I would like Almost 1 000 jobs in Gävleborg, over 1,600 jobs in Dalarna, 500 jobs in Gotland, over 2 000 jobs in Jönköping, 1,200 jobs in Kalmar and 600 jobs in Jämtland – this is, Madam President, just a small sample from the list of jobs that have disappeared over the past year. Many of these jobs were in the restaurant industry, the sector that is very much affected by the proposal for a decision that the government has put on the table today and on which we are now going to decide. The fact that the restaurant industry has been hit incredibly hard during the pandemic, I think we are all extremely aware and agreed on. Few sectors have been hit harder by industry-specific restrictions than restaurants and restaurants. These are tough restrictions that have limited the activities in everything from how many guests you can have to how long opening hours you are allowed to have. This, combined with the fact that the disbursement of the aid promised has been far too slow, has put enormous strain on everyone in the industry and has put unnecessarily many businesses in crisis. Almost daily we get stories about how restaurants, restaurants and family businesses go to waste, because now you can't take it anymore. On several occasions, during the pandemic, we from the Center Party have criticised the government for ensuring that aid is paid out. The money is in the budget – make sure to start paying out now! It is a disaster that there are still companies waiting to receive aid, up to six months after the application has been submitted. Madam President, I would like Most people and traders in this country have shown a great deal of tolerance and understanding for the restrictions and recommendations that exist. These are recommendations and restrictions that have really been necessary. I believe that tolerance will be greater if one can understand why they exist and what benefit they are doing. Then I think you can accept them in a completely different way. The link between the state of the infection and the restrictions imposed must be clearly understood. The restrictions must always be in balance with the evolution of the pandemic in order for us to push back the infection and keep the curve down. In order to create this understanding and tolerance, it is important that the authorities and the government are responsive and quick – something that the government has unfortunately not been all the time during the pandemic. On a number of occasions, we in the Center Party have pointed out the importance of making the right effort at the right time and of having an active and regular dialogue with the companies and industries affected – all in order to be able to regulate and change precisely on the basis of the development of the pandemic. I feel, as many entrepreneurs do, that the government has not heeded the call for dialogue to the extent that would have been necessary. Both Visita and Entrepreneurs have stated in their referrals that active work is needed in dialogue with the industry for when and how changes are to take place and restrictions are introduced. Madam President, I would like Of course, people's health and well-being must always be given priority, and the restrictions and regulations that have been introduced have, as I said, been very important to counteract the proliferation of covid-19. At the same time, however, I would like to stress the importance of always considering very carefully the need for different types of restrictions and their scope and content. Similarly, it is important that we continually reconsider and assess whether it is possible to ease any restrictions. As soon as rules which in different ways restrict or hinder activities can no longer be justified, they must be repealed. In the phase of the pandemic we are in now, it is difficult to determine how it will develop. Right now, in this situation, we need to continue to have sharp restrictions in view of the widespread spread of infection that is still taking place in society. But what the situation is in four months' time is hard to say. Right now, we are vaccinating our population as fast as we can. The Government's objective is that all older than 65 years of age should have received at least one dose on 16 May. All over 18 years of age should be able to be offered vaccination with at least one dose until 15 August. If I weigh together all the different positions I have spoken about – that we must take into account the evolution of the pandemic, that the restrictions have a huge negative impact on the industry, and that we should have more frequent communication and adjust restrictions in dialogue with the industry – I and the Center Party believe that it is too early to take a position on extending the law for another four months. Madam President, I would like I believe that any extension must be possible in a better relationship with real developments. Therefore, the Center Party proposes that the law be extended only until 30 June 2021, which is in line with the state aid to companies affected by the restrictions. Of course, it turns out that we need to make other decisions in June. However, limiting constitutional rights and freedoms unnecessarily is not something that we in the Center Party support. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-f932c7177354e457-29	Madam President, I would like Temporary laws must be temporary, not least those that affect people's access to livelihoods and laws that restrict democratic freedoms and rights. Therefore, the assessment of proportionality is crucial for every decision we take during the pandemic. The extension from June to September that the government is now proposing is necessary, we believe Christian Democrats, in the light of the continuing spread of infection and that vaccination has not yet reached the fullest point of the population. But we Christian Democrats want to emphasise that the law must be used properly. Restrictions shall only be used where they have an effect and where it is proportionate to the consequences arising from the restriction. Traders do what they can to ensure that distances are kept and their activities arranged in a safe manner. That's what traders want to do. Simply put, if customers get sick, they don't go to restaurants or cafes. So there are good reasons for everyone to arrange the activities so that distances are kept, as well as other things that reduce the risk of infection. In the past year, it seems to me that it has worked. The operator of a restaurant has taken action. Sometimes there are reasons for the responsible supervisory authority to give good advice and sometimes sharper comments. At some point there are also grounds for making serious remarks. But overall, there are major changes that have taken place at all serving points to deal with the pandemic. The law has been followed and the risk of infection has been reduced, but there have been consequences. The owners of the activities have been affected and the employees of the activities have been affected. And they've been hit hard by the pandemic. Jobs and life's work are lost. It is very serious and therefore the measures we use to combat the Corona virus must be appropriate and proportionate. Madam President, I would like We must also provide financial compensation to those affected by this law as well as by the Pandemic Act. It goes without saying that we must take measures to reduce the risk of infection. However, those affected by the consequences must also receive financial compensation, not only in public commitments but also in money for the account so that they can make it. This applies to workers, and it applies to those who own companies. We Christian Democrats have no rules on financial compensation. Intervention measures should always be followed by principles of financial compensation. Madam President, I would like Make the right decisions at the right time! About that, the government usually expresses itself when they talk about their strategy, that is, what they do to keep the infection down. The right decision at the right time can work if you are transparent with the basis for decisions. What are the reasons for this or that restriction measure? What are the forecasts and assessments? Unfortunately, it is rarely that the government tells us, more than general terms that we are affected by SARS-coronavirus-2 and that the health care system is heavily burdened. That's correct. The Corona virus is ravaging. Medical care is still under great strain, and we have a large spread of infection. But it's general. I believe that more specific information is needed on the situation. Madam President, I would like Throughout the pandemic, we Christian Democrats have repeatedly highlighted the need for transparency around the basis for decisions. If we know why a measure is needed, compliance is also increasing. That is something that is very important when we work more with trust than with bans, which is a wise path. It is reasonable to extend the validity of the law so that the government has tools to maintain the limitations that can be considered appropriate. The government will also make reliefs in a accurate manner when possible during this period of time. We are also facing a possible extension of the so-called Pandemic Act. It contains far more interventional measures concerning rights and freedoms than the law that is currently the subject of Parliament's decisions. In view of the possible extension of the Pandemic Act, proper evidence is required to demonstrate which assessments can be adopted for the spread of infection, vaccinations, mutations, detection and testing during autumn and winter. It is therefore necessary to consider what assessments the government makes on this basis. Madam President, I would like All in all, I support the committee's proposal and would like to draw attention to the fact that we have delivered a special opinion on the matter with the Moderates.
i-f932c7177354e457-38	Madam President, I would like I can't wait for normality. I long for the life I had before the pandemic struck. I can't wait to go to a party. I can't wait to go to the restaurant with a lot of my friends. I long for normality and joy, Madam President. But I also yearn for a normality in the sorrows and worries of life. Last Friday I was a funeral officer at Skogskyrkogården for a good friend's mother and found that only a dozen people were allowed to attend this funeral. I long for a world where we can also mourn together in a normal way. This pandemic is terrible. It has taken far too many lives, and it requires far too much of Swedish health care. About 2 000 people are currently being treated in Swedish hospitals because of this pandemic. We can only say that we do not know what will happen in the future. We are living with great uncertainty as to how this pandemic will strike in the future. Many who, during the first wave, proclaimed that they were able to cope with this gala are bitterly sorry today when they are hit by large numbers of deaths. The risk of mutations that knock out vaccinations is imminent as long as we fail to vaccinate most of the world's population. There is a risk that we will have to revaccate ourselves several times. It's worth thinking about. That is why we have all these restrictions, not because the authorities or the government think it is funny. We have the restrictions because, unfortunately, it is absolutely necessary. Madam President, I would like Is it the case that the government and the authorities are trying to make life particularly difficult for Swedish restaurants, Swedish pubs and Swedish nightlife? Are they alone in their way of making life difficult for the hospitality industry and the restaurant industry? No, that is not the case. I called Info Norden, the Nordic Council of Ministers' information channel, and asked how the situation is right now in the Nordic countries. It turned out that in Denmark, which had all the restaurants on 16 December and started to open them in April, restrictions still remain. You can go to the restaurant, but only if you can show a corona pass – a certificate. You have a stopover, and tables must be booked in advance – at least half an hour before. Finland, which has hardly been affected by the pandemic at all, has regional restrictions. And in Helsinki, which is almost spared compared to the Stockholm region, restaurants close at seven o'clock. And the bars are already closing at six o'clock. These are draconian restrictions on the restaurant industry in a metropolitan region that is almost not affected by the pandemic at all. Norway, which has also been spared, has regional restrictions. In Oslo the restaurants are closed, and only takeaway is allowed. In Iceland, which has also been very protected, everything closes at 9 p.m. Our Nordic neighbours have therefore hit even harder on the restaurant industry – well worth thinking about for all those who criticize Sweden because we have been too mild and well worth thinking about in the current debate. Our neighbours realize that it is necessary to have some supervision and control when people go out and enjoy themselves, are happy and forget the restrictions on proximity. I and the government also realise that this is wasting the economy of restaurants and restaurants. This is why exceptional support measures have been taken. Several billions have been invested in trying to save employment in this sector, and the government is prepared to invest additional money if and when it is needed. Madam President, I would like I can't wait to go back to the restaurant and sit there for a long time with my friends. It's part of what creates my social life. I hope we all get back to normality soon. Nobody wants what's on the table right now. But let us not be naive either – this pandemic is terrible. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f932c7177354e457-49	Madam President, I would like We are in a situation in the pandemic where it is easy to feel anxiety but at the same time hope – concern that Sweden has among the highest spread of infection in Europe, that intensive care is struggling with a very large number of patients and how long the staff in Swedish health care should be able to stand up for the extraordinary pressure and workload that they have now had for over a year. At the same time, Madam President, the tunnel lights up. There is hope for a better tomorrow and that vaccinations, which have now finally taken off, will save many lives, reduce pressure on health care, stop the spread of infection and thus create the conditions for us to ease restrictions and recommendations. There is hope that the economy will recover and that everyday life will return to normal. Madam President, I would like I have said this many times in the past year in this House: the government, however, must not just hope and sit back. The government must be prepared for a continued high spread of infection and ensure that it has tools to manage different scenarios. Therefore, we Moderates agree to the Government's proposal to extend the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites until the end of September. We Moderates have since the pandemic started pushing the line that the infection should be stopped but jobs and businesses are saved. Therefore, it is important not only that the government has tools to limit the spread of infection, but also that the government uses the tools of judgment and not least that companies and activities that are affected and harmed when the tools are used receive compensation. During the pandemic, the restaurant industry has taken a disproportionate blow compared to other industries and society at large. This mainly has two reasons: firstly, the slowness of the government in developing a broad pandemic law covering various activities and not just the restaurant industry; secondly, the inability of the government; and sometimes, unfortunately, I think, unwillingness to get in place support systems adapted to the special circumstances of the restaurant industry. In the bill that we are now debating, the government notes that the extension of the validity of the law means continued restrictions on property protection and the freedom to conduct a business. The Act contains important horizontal provisions to ensure that the operator of a restaurant takes responsibility for designing the operations so that the spread of infection can be prevented. The operator of a restaurant is responsible for ensuring that congestion can be avoided and guests can keep a distance from each other. However, the law also authorises the government, or the authority that the government decides, to issue further regulations on disease control measures. Examples of such additional regulations are the commercial ban that in practice applies to the restaurant industry in the evening. When the government imposes such very far-reaching restrictions on the freedom to conduct a business, it must ensure that affected activities receive fair compensation. The majority here in Parliament, led by the Moderates, has been very clear and demanding. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it is only to be noted that the aid that is in place today is ill-suited to the restaurant industry, and that the payments, as previous speakers have been in here in the speaker's chair, are being made far too late. Today, companies in acute crisis are forced to wait for one, two, three, four, five, six, perhaps up to eight months before receiving aid. It won't hold. Aid must be paid out much faster. Therefore, we Moderates have proposed that aid be paid within four weeks. At the moment, another proposal is also being prepared, for the restaurant industry extremely important, by us in the Moderates, namely that wage costs should be included in the conversion aid for companies that cannot compensate for lower revenues by lay-off staff. A restaurant cannot send all its staff home and at the same time keep open. Therefore, the change in conversion aid proposed by the Moderates is needed. With a quick vaccination, accurate restrictions and recommendations as well as better designed crisis support and a time guarantee for payment within four weeks, we can stop the corona infection while saving jobs and businesses in the restaurant industry. This drives the Moderates.
i-f932c7177354e457-59	Madam President, I would like Sweden has not had a total lockdown, although I have heard some politicians chatting about it. However, we have very clear recommendations, which we have been reasonably good at following, and now through the Pandemic Act also clear rules that are statutory. We've been in control, because it's about people, about us, and how we behave. In many countries with long-term lockdowns, the spread of infection has not decreased over time but gone up and down, just like here. Had we had a better equipped elderly care and a health care with air in the systems, we would have had much better results. It's about this too, isn't it? So many people, Madam President, have been influenced by covid-19. I am thinking of the elderly, who only now can gently go out and move around in society. I think of all the children and young people who have studied from a distance. Many children who have had school as a free zone and perhaps a home that has been threatening have gone very badly. I think of all the young adults who have turned their lives around. The parties are gone and the rest of the world is cut down to a minimum. Many have been sitting in a dorm room on their own month after month, and it has been destructive. The rest of us have become couches. Madam President, I would like I miss the dinners out, even if one or another dinner has been eaten out. I miss the bar hang on the Heart of the South. I am a Stockholmer, as you can hear, and I believe that a city without restaurants and without bar life will be megatrist even for us 60-plusers. It's the same all over Sweden. We want to be in the restaurant, whether we live in Ystad or Haparanda, and the restaurant business is very important. But, Madam President, it is just as Dag Larsson said earlier: just look at our Nordic neighbours or France, Italy and Portugal and see how the restaurant industry has been affected. It's shut down. We're not unique. The restaurant business is very hard hit by this. I am thinking of all the family restaurants that have had to come forward, with the risk of bankruptcy. I'm thinking about the restaurants in Old Town that we're having lunch at. I hope they fix this; I always have a conversation with them when I go in and get the food. Through this I would like to send a message to Rodolfino and Shogun. I also hope, Madam President, that tourists will return to Stockholm and to the Old Town. Of course, there is a risk of having the restaurants open for a long time; it is specifically about party restaurants. The restaurants I eat at have, however, kept track and adapted the business to covid-19 – they have been very good at it, I think. We hope the taverns can reopen. It's about us and how we behave – that we keep our distance and act like a pandemic. It is also about us being vaccinated and the vaccine being able to cope with the mutations. We need to be prepared. In Stockholm we say this: We hope for the best and prepare for the worst. We still have a very high spread of infection. The burden on health care is extreme and has been for 14 months, with 12-hour sessions and 16-hour sessions for staff. I'm thinking about everyone who works in health care. Think of them, including the rest of you, and the fact that the health care system can't take much more. We're not going to shut down any more than necessary. We are only going to do what needs to be done – not a restriction unnecessarily. But as long as only 21.9 percent of the population in Region Stockholm has vaccinated themselves – this is a jumbo place I'm not proud of – we're not really at home. This is about how to get vaccination started and how to stop the mutations. In Värmland, 39.2 percent have been vaccinated, so it looks a little different. These figures come from 30 April. Public health must take precedence. It is extremely important that we stick to the rules we have and that we vaccinate ourselves – this is what is A and O – so that we do not sit there with mutations in September. I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-f932c7177354e457-70	Madam President, I would like I'll be fairly brief. It's not over yet. The infection is still sweeping around us. The medical system is on its knees. People are exhausted and are still not allowed to come home to their families as much as they should be able to. Our country is in an extraordinary situation. The spread of infection is very high in large parts of the country, Madam President, and it is not possible to know for sure when this is over. We're seeing a light. We see that there is another time – a better time – but we also know that it is not over yet. As soon as possible, Madam President, we must reopen this society. We need it to feel good ourselves, to be able to have coffee with friends and relatives and to have a birthday party at restaurants and nightclubs. We need it absolutely for people to be able to go to a job – in order for companies and their employees to make our everyday lives more enjoyable and at the same time to fund the welfare and the common safety net. Of course, we must do so because restrictions should not be a normal element. It's not supposed to be the usual way we live our lives. Of course not. We need to open it as soon as possible. But that time is not here yet, Madam President. This is about life and health. It's about us staying together now. This law just says that we have to hold on, hold on and keep our distance a little longer. At the same time, of course, those who get the hardest blow from this law must be compensated for the enormous sacrifices they actually make. I would like to support the proposal in the report. I hope that what we are living in right now will be as short-lived as possible, but I also think it is absolutely necessary for us to see that extraordinary situations require extraordinary laws.
i-f932c7177354e457-76	Madam President, I would like I think that the Swedish route through this pandemic has been well balanced. We will no doubt be able to conclude afterwards that a great many things could have been done differently, but that is a luxury for those looking back. The foundation, or core, and the red thread in the way forward have been to push down the curve, as it is called. So what's the curve? The curve is not really the number of infected, but the curve is the load on Swedish health care. What's the burden? Well, load is patients. Patients may be individuals with severe covid. They may also have ended up there because they have been hit by someone who was drunk with a drink, because they have been beaten up on a late night at the bar or because of something else. Madam President, I would like To be honest, there are a lot of nice things about alcohol. It's part of our culture. It is part of our development towards getting very good and nice restaurants and a great selection of nice culinary experiences. But there is also something that has a backside. We know that our emergency intakes every normal weekend – that is, when it is not a pandemic – are filled with people who end up there because of alcohol. They end up there because their fellow human beings have lost their way, have lost their judgment, and have basically lost respect for their fellow human beings. Most of those who are abused and most of the accidents and traffic accidents have alcohol as a common denominator. That is why this restriction is important. This is one way to keep the curve down. The curve is made up of patients, and for nurses and nurses who work hard in intensive care departments to keep people alive, it is completely uninteresting if the patient has ended up there because of covid or because of something else. This is a way to keep the curve down, just like any other restrictions. This is perhaps also one of the reasons why we and many other countries – virtually all countries – have chosen to go this way. It is known that alcohol affects judgment and people's ability to adhere to restrictions. That's why it's important. That is the essence of the decision we are going to make. One thing is that a very large number of people who run businesses are disproportionately affected. This is something that needs to be dealt with, and it is being dealt with as well. I'm sure it can be done better. There are authorities and other government administrations that need to tighten up the procedures for payment of aid and so on. But it's still a side matter. The main thing is that we continue to push down the curve and keep it down, because an imploded Swedish healthcare system is dangerous and will risk even more human lives than at present. Having said that, I wish the pandemic would disappear so that we can go back to something normal. However, I would also like to support the committee's proposal.
i-f932c7177354e457-85	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats very much welcome the proposal for the regulation of aesthetic surgical procedures and of aesthetic injection treatments that we are debating today. It's longed for. In the bill, the government proposes specific competence requirements for those performing aesthetic surgical procedures and treatments. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is high time to introduce these skills requirements. Plastic surgery and injections with fillers or botox may involve serious risks. It therefore requires, for obvious reasons, that the performer has good medical competence. There is a clear need for a more effective and clear regulation of aesthetic treatments. This has long been requested by professional organisations, authorities and, not least, individuals who are undergoing this type of treatment and intervention. Another key element of the proposal is that aesthetic surgery and injection treatments should not be carried out on someone who has not reached the age of 18 and that the person performing the procedure or treatment should also ensure that the person intending to undergo an operation or treatment is at least 18 years old. The Coronapandemia has had many effects on us as individuals and on society as a whole. However, a somewhat unexpected effect has been an increased global trend in beauty approaches, a so-called zoom boom. It is said to be the result of people sitting in video meetings and paying attention to their appearance in a completely different way. A further explanation is that patients now have more time to undergo plastic surgery. Increased demand for an unregulated market is, of course, very problematic. It is therefore important that we be able to bring about a change that strengthens the safety of people's lives and health. We Swedish democrats are also convinced that this will be a boost for serious players in the industry, who have long been adversely affected by this market situation. Madam President, I would like There are very many reasons why a practitioner of aesthetic treatments or surgical procedures should have adequate medical competence. I can take a specific example. Injection with filler is a treatment that can cause blockage of blood vessels. This, in turn, can result in blindness, lung damage, or even brain damage. This means that there is a risk for the individual to suffer permanent injury and disability caused by a particular treatment. However, this risk can be minimised. It is basically about how well the treatment is performed and whether the performer has the skills needed to handle the problems and complications that can arise from aesthetic treatments. Therefore, knowledge of the risk of adverse reactions and past medical conditions are also relevant factors to minimise the occurrence of injuries and complications. The exporter must therefore have sufficient competence to identify persons who are directly unsuitable for aesthetic treatments. I can take dysmorphophobia as another example. It is a psychiatric diagnosis that involves, among other things, extreme appearance fixation. Individuals who otherwise have symptoms of disturbed body perception, which can occur in, for example, psychosis, are also very important to be able to identify, not least in order to prevent a worsening of the condition. That's why we're not going to tweak the skills requirement. Persons with insufficient knowledge and experience should not be allowed to perform this type of procedure or treatment. Patient safety must always weigh the heaviest. Madam President, I would like The fact that the bill does not include more risky aesthetic treatments is problematic. There are a number of aesthetic treatments that are not included in the proposal, treatments that may involve risks. Some selected examples are laser treatments, mechanical and chemical peeling and non-surgical hair transplants. The safety of these or other treatments must be further investigated for patient safety reasons. Therefore, we believe that there is still a need to review stricter requirements regarding the specific competence of all aesthetic treatments that can be considered a risk when assessed. The government should also consider the fact that this type of aesthetic treatments should be allowed to be carried out as much as possible by performers who meet reasonable skill requirements. An appropriate model should therefore be developed for this purpose. This bill contains important elements that will increase the protection of the individual's life and health. Unfortunately, the proposal lacks consumer policy measures that clarify what happens if someone wants to complain about an intervention or treatment, and that is, of course, also an important aspect to highlight. This is further proof that the issue we are now dealing with is complex and that there are more aspects to it that we believe need to be further explored, which is also something that we have highlighted in our follow-up motion. Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 1 in the report.
i-f932c7177354e457-99	Madam President, I would like The government wants to introduce a law on aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments, a law that is both long awaited and requested by serious actors in the industry. For many years the issue has been discussed and investigated. I therefore think it is a good thing that we can now come to a decision on legislation aimed at making the industry both safer and better for patients and for operators. Sweden is today one of the few countries that actually lack regulation for aesthetic surgical procedures and esthetic injection treatments, despite the fact that it requires medical expertise and can pose significant health risks to the individual. Other countries around the world are astounded and find it a bit wild west in this industry in Sweden. From a patient perspective, it is therefore a very important law. But it is also an important law for all the serious performers who can now actually get a team to lean on. The Center Party feels that the bill is largely good and welcomes, as has been said, that the industry should now be regulated. However, there are elements in the proposed legislation where we do not share the government's assessment. That is why we in the Center Party have a few reservations, which I will come back to a little later in my speech. Madam President, I would like The beauty industry is a strongly growing market. Especially aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments, such as plastic surgery and injections with fillers or botox, have increased tremendously in recent years. I often think about how thorough we are when we're going to build bathrooms or rewind the electricity back home. Then we demand that it be professional done and are very careful that those who do the job have the right skills and the right education. For example, one would never let a plumber draw the electricity or an electrician lay the drain pipes. There we want both certificates and proof that the person who is going to perform the surgery in our home has the right competence. A major problem in the beauty industry is that patients or customers are not even aware of the risks they face. Many believe that there are rules that protect them from doctors who lie about their skills or that there are patient insurances if something goes wrong, but that is not always the case. As careful as we are when choosing electricians or plumbers, we should be when choosing performers in the beauty industry. Interventions by persons with a lack of knowledge and experience can be dangerous and lead to everything from severe ulceration, difficulty swallowing and destruction of respiratory tracts during nose surgery to paralysis. If something goes really bad, surgery at worst can lead to death. That is why we now want to tighten up and regulate. Another problem is that the high demand for treatments combined with the industry being unregulated has unfortunately led to the presence of many rogue or criminal actors today. Madam President, I would like Even if we now want to regulate the industry, put patient safety first and control which identification professions are allowed to perform aesthetic injections, it is important that we do not unnecessarily restrict the freedom of trade. A group of IDs that has unfortunately fallen between the chairs of this bill are licensed dental hygienists. This profession is well educated in the anatomy of the face, and a first proposal in the investigation included this profession. Many serious and skilled dental hygienists today carry on their own activities with great success. Many have invested large sums of money in their activities, but with this legislation they risk being allowed to close down their activities. I therefore believe that it is important for the government to regularly consider the need to allow more licence professions to carry out certain aesthetic injection treatments. It cannot be the intention to exclude the identification professions that are best placed to perform procedures. I therefore believe that legitimate dental hygienists should be included in the proposal right now, and I call for the Center Party's reservation No 2 on this particular issue to be approved. In the case of body treatments that are not covered by the proposed law, we in the Center Party believe that the government should also come back with a proposal on how to strengthen consumer protection. Protection should cover cases where aesthetic treatments are not professional and do not produce the result reasonably expected by the consumer. Similarly, we in the Center Party want it to be mandatory for the activities covered by the law to keep quality registers. It is all about further strengthening patient safety and developing the industry. As I said, this is a long-awaited and important piece of legislation that I believe will allow the industry to clean up rogue operators and strengthen patient safety. I look forward to continuing to follow the issue and see how progress is being made.
i-f932c7177354e457-117	Madam President, I would like Aesthetic treatments can involve risks. You have to take risks. It's my body, it's my decision, it's my life. But it is important that you have a chance to assess what the risks are and how large they are. This law says that you should have the right to information about what the procedure actually means and that you should give a clear consent to any aesthetic procedure. You should have time to think about it and have a chance to repent – everything can not be undone. And to take risks, you're supposed to be an adult. Above all, this is an important change in the law, as it is now being ensured that the risks are as small as possible. IVO shall be the supervisory authority and only qualified professionals with knowledge shall be allowed to perform these operations. Identification as a doctor or dentist with adequate specialist competence shall be required in order to perform aesthetic surgical procedures, and only those with a medical, dental or nurse identification shall be allowed to perform aesthetic injection treatments. This is good. It provides better protection for people who choose cosmetic procedures. They get a chance to think their decision through and have more facts on the table, while reducing the risks. The Liberals are therefore in favour of the committee's proposal. However, we lack one thing and therefore have a reservation. Of course, things can go wrong. We lack caution with common resources. Of course, if something goes wrong, the individual should not bear the full responsibility – it would be absurd – but it is also not reasonable for the entire financial responsibility to be borne by the taxpayer and to burden the cashier of the general-funded care. We see it this way: If I am harmed by an aesthetic procedure, it should not matter why. I'm going to get medical attention because I need medical attention. However, it should be reviewed if the companies that sell treatments should not have some financial responsibility for such care injuries that should have been avoided and that happen to someone after a careless aesthetic intervention. That is why I am in favour of the Liberals' Amendment No 6 which deals with this issue. It is a question of providing even stronger protection. Perhaps some kind of compulsory liability insurance for private operators would put even greater pressure on performers to do a really good job. In the end, it's my choice, my body and my life. But it must be done in full transparency, with the certainty that we take care of each other and with the knowledge that the person who carries out these interventions can handle them and take responsibility if something goes wrong.
i-f932c7177354e457-126	Madam President, I would like It is an important measure the government is taking today, and, as many have said, it is long awaited. It strengthens the situation of all serious actors and of patients. The proposed law strengthens the protection of the individual in the case of aesthetic surgical procedures and esthetic injection treatments. It is done through its own law and through amendments to the Patient Injury Act, the Patient Data Act and the Patient Safety Act, while applying certain provisions of the Health Care Act. It is important that the bill makes it clear that the purpose of the law is to strengthen the protection of the individual's life and health. The forthcoming regulations will strengthen the activities of both practitioners and patients or customers. An age limit of 18 years is introduced as well as an obligation to inform those who intend to undergo an aesthetic surgical procedure or an aesthetic injection treatment both orally and in writing of the meaning of the measure and its essential risks and consequences, and to provide other relevant information. These are good measures. There are also skills requirements that mean that it is legitimate staff that can perform these procedures and treatments. The law lists three occupational groups but also opens up the possibility for the government to expand the circle if one so judges. But it is the identification professions that are relevant, which provides a safety for patients. It is clear from the bill that the government has chosen to include the possibility of expanding the circle of competence by using a regulation instead of a law. This allows the government to monitor developments and supplement with more skills where deemed appropriate. It is a good thing that Parliament gives the government the opportunity through the law. Madam President, I would like Aesthetic treatments and procedures are easy to trudge over or joke about. But we should refrain from this, partly because the reasons for the interventions are very different, partly because we hardly help to reduce the demands on what to look like if we reduce or ridicule the person who chooses to undergo an aesthetic intervention of any kind. You are neither a better nor a worse person if you undergo an aesthetic surgical procedure or receive an aesthetic injection treatment. The need or desire to undergo an aesthetic surgical procedure or an aesthetic injection treatment exists in an increasing number of people. It's a growing business. It is therefore important that the activities now have regulation and that all serious activities have a more solid platform through the law. Patients' lives and health are protected by the proposal. It benefits both the professions and the patients. Madam President, I would like We have national quality registers that are voluntary in health care. They help us to better monitor developments and strengthen the knowledge situation. Nor will they be mandatory for the activities currently regulated, but there is probably a better chance of quality development through the use of national quality registers. On the other hand, making quality registers mandatory for these activities but voluntary for health services does not seem reasonable. Then what the government proposes is better: that they are voluntary also for the activities that will be covered by the forthcoming law. But, of course, developments must be closely followed, as in all other matters. It's about life and health. Madam President, I would like What is proposed in the bill has consequences for those activities that are not immediately part of the circle of competences that are approved. The government should therefore clarify the situation as a matter of urgency so that they can know the conditions for their activities. If the government intends to use the possibility provided by the law to supplement with more licence professions, that information should come as soon as possible. The Christian Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal, which means that we will finally have a law on aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments. The protection of life and health is strengthened.
i-f932c7177354e457-137	Madam President, I would like In a better world, I wouldn't be standing here right now. Actually, my party partner, Yasmine Bladelius, would be here to give his first speech after his parental leave. But she called me last night, and she actually sounded terrible. She had a terrible cold, and in these times of the pandemic Yasmine dared not take any risks and asked me to present her arguments. I will try to do so to the best of my understanding and ability. Any flaws can only be blamed on me in the event of something going wrong from what she was going to say. The proposal we are now debating and about to deal with is a very long-awaited proposal, by both performers and citizens. Among the serious players in the beauty industry, the frustration is great that rogue actors are unwittingly and legally carrying out activities that endanger people. The legislative proposal we are now putting forward is basically about taking responsibility and regulating a previously completely unregulated market and protecting citizens from rogue performers and injuries caused by beauty attacks and injections. Although the name of this bill may not be the coolest, it is therefore extremely important, as previous speakers have already pointed out. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic country in many ways. Swedish healthcare is one of the very best in the world. Surprisingly, however, Sweden is one of the least regulated countries in Europe in terms of aesthetic plastic surgery. Today, virtually anyone can perform beauty attacks, such as lip enlargement and other facial injections. And to perform plastic surgery, it only takes being a doctor, but in which area you have your skills, it doesn't matter. These interventions on people are not seen as obvious purchases of goods or services in the legal sense, but they are not necessarily covered by the legislation of health care. This means, in practice, that the operators themselves determine the conditions, and those who may get caught are the patients. This unregulated market, where anyone can perform these treatments and interventions, at a time when more and more people in Sweden are demanding different body treatments for aesthetic purposes, is of course devastating from a patient and citizen perspective. It can also sometimes, not least in marketing, sound like these procedures are straightforward. You make an appointment, and in a few hours the lips, chin, cheek, nose or similar may have a completely new, desired appearance. But when something goes wrong, today the citizen stands alone with very little protection in his back. Madam President, I would like In order to clarify a little what this proposal includes, I want to make it clear that it is aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments that are meant, in particular plastic surgery and injections with fillers or botox. Otherwise, the proposals contained in the proposal include that only qualified doctors or dentists with adequate specialist competence should be allowed to perform aesthetic surgical procedures and that only qualified doctors, dentists or nurses should be allowed to perform aesthetic injection treatments. The Government shall be allowed to provide instructions that other qualified health professionals may perform certain aesthetic surgical procedures and certain aesthetic injection treatments and the conditions under which this may be done. It shall also be punishable to carry out these treatments if one does not meet the required qualification requirements or violates the age limit. When these treatments are carried out, the Patient Injury Act and the Patient Safety Act should be applied to ensure good and safe care. Executors must also take out patient insurance, which gives individuals an increased opportunity for compensation in the event of injuries. The Government shall also be allowed to provide for certain injection treatments to be excluded from the scope of the Act. These are less invasive injection treatments, such as micronails, which can be carried out by other occupational groups that are not healthcare professionals. Treatments should not be carried out on someone who is under 18 years of age. However, the law does not prohibit the intervention of children for medical reasons. We also propose that, among other things, information on risks and reflection periods should be provided to the individual. This is an important measure that is lacking by many today. Activities concerned must pay a supervisory fee to the Inspection for Health Care, and the new Act and legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2021. Madam President, I would like I began this speech by pointing out the great support that I see for this bill in society as a whole. When we have looked at the responses of the referral bodies, we see that they also show broad support for the new law. None of the referral bodies has rejected the proposal. However, there are some objections as to which injection treatments should not be covered by the law. In addition, several bodies have views on the competence requirements. A number of professional associations object to the government's being allowed to prescribe that other qualified healthcare professionals should also be allowed to perform aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments. But overall this is a bill that has a broad support behind it and is about the patient to have a safer life and that the industry will be cleaned up from rogue actors. It should no longer be easier to start a beauty clinic than to open a café. When citizens decide to make an act of beauty or an injection of beauty, they should also be sure that this is done safely. I know that if Yasmine Bladelius had been here right now, she would have called for the committee's proposal to be approved. Since in our phone call she was very stubborn about this, I would like to take this opportunity to do the same. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f932c7177354e457-153	Madam President, I would like This debate is, as I said, about the government's proposal for the introduction of a new law on aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments. The Moderates would have been represented in the debate by my colleague Ulrika Jörgensen, but she, too, feels uneasy and, like Yasmine Bladelius, takes her responsibility and stays at home and has therefore given me the floor. I am therefore, like Dag Larsson, a substitute for this debate. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the protection of the individual in beauty operations and injections. How this is done I will come back to. Instead, let me start with what it looks like today. At present, aesthetic surgical procedures and injections are not covered by the rules of the Health Care Act. There are no legal requirements on either information, age or who is allowed to perform the procedures or injections. We consider moderates to be unreasonable. Better regulation of this type of aesthetic interventions and treatments is needed because they are associated with not insignificant risks. This bill strengthens patient safety, which we in the Moderates welcome and place first. We also welcome the fact that the government has chosen to meet the need for more stringent regulation of the beauty industry through a new law that makes it clear that aesthetic surgical procedures and esthetic injection treatments are not part of the healthcare system. However, they are interventions and treatments that need to be subject to the same requirements as those we impose on health care. This may seem to be an academic issue, but it is important in principle. There is a need for a clear gulf between what is health care and what is not. It is therefore also a good thing that the legislative proposal makes it clear that measures taken for medical reasons should not be covered by this law but are measures that fall within the scope of the health care system and are therefore governed by the Health Act. Madam President, I would like The bill contains several parts. A central part is about the introduction of skills requirements and about which professions should be allowed to perform aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injections. Furthermore, the proposal includes the introduction of an age limit and an obligation to provide information. The obligation to provide information then lays the foundation for another important part of the proposal, namely the requirement for consent. A performer shall inform the person wishing to undergo an aesthetic surgical procedure or an aesthetic injection treatment of the risks. It should then give its consent, and there should finally be a reflection period between the time when consent is given and the intervention or processing itself. The procedures and treatments covered by the Act shall only be allowed to be carried out on persons aged 18 or over. Madam President, I would like There is very broad support for the introduction of clear rules that provide the individual with much better protection than today. This is something we Moderates have been asking for, and this has not least been requested by the industry. The industry has actively worked with self-regulation. Industry standards have been established and efforts have been made in various ways to ensure that the industry's players are serious and meet quality requirements. Unfortunately, however, there are rogue players who side by side with industry standards and the industry's own quality systems. It is therefore important that legislative regulation is put in place. Some of the government's legislative proposals, which have, however, been criticised, concern the question of which healthcare professional should be allowed to perform the procedures and treatments covered by the law. According to the Government's bill, only qualified doctors or dentists with specialist expertise are allowed to perform aesthetic surgery, i.e. beauty surgery. According to the bill, only qualified doctors, dentists or nurses should be allowed to perform aesthetic injection treatments. Having said that, Madam President, it is also important to emphasise that the legislative proposal contains a provision which allows the government to provide for the provision that other qualified health professionals should also be allowed to perform certain aesthetic surgical procedures and certain aesthetic injection treatments. It also specifies the conditions under which this may be done. I expect the government to use this opportunity to ensure that staff groups who can perform treatments in a patient-safe manner are not excluded from doing so. It is important that the government does not legally pull away the carpet for serious professionals to carry out business and work. Madam President, I would like The individual's protection in the field of beauty is now weak. We Moderates want to see clearer quality requirements in activities dealing with aesthetic interventions, treatments and operations. We think it is important that there is insurance cover that allows the individual to receive financial compensation if something goes wrong. It is therefore a good thing that the government's legislative proposals also contain provisions on this. With these words, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f932c7177354e457-164	Madam President, I would like Operating on people's faces or bodies or giving injections can go wrong if the person performing the operation or injection is not adequately qualified and trained. In Stockholm's inner city there are various clinics offering beauty surgery and treatments. It's a profitable business. It is also an industry where consumers sometimes find it difficult to keep track of the surgeon's or nurse's skills. We must therefore strengthen the protection of patients. Aesthetic surgery or injections should not end in chaos. Madam President, I would like There is a need for relevant patient protection legislation for the treatments covered by the law. The new law will apply to interventions and injection treatments carried out in order to change or preserve the appearance of a person and carried out in a professional activity. These operations and treatments shall be referred to as aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments. However, interventions and injection treatments made medically to prevent, investigate and treat diseases and injuries should of course not be covered by this law. The same applies to interventions and injection treatments which are covered by the Dental Act or which are carried out for the purpose of altering or preserving the appearance of the oral cavity. These are purely medical matters. Madam President, I would like Aesthetic surgery should be performed by qualified doctors or dentists with a specialist competence appropriate to the procedure. In conclusion, the requirement for the specialist competence of the doctor and dentist to be adequate means that there should be a link between competence and intervention. This sounds very obvious, but that has not been the case before. Aesthetic injection treatments should be performed by a person who has a licence as a doctor, dentist or nurse. This, too, sounds insanely reasonable. Aesthetic surgery and esthetic injection treatments should not be carried out on someone under 18 years of age. This is very good. There have been a number of such cases. The person carrying out the procedure or treatment, Madam President, must ensure that the person intending to undergo the operation is 18 years old. We also believe that it is a major step forward that there will be an obligation to inform people who intend to undergo an aesthetic surgical procedure or an aesthetic injection treatment, both orally and in writing. Of course, the significance of the measure and the significant risks and consequences that exist should be informed. No surgery or injection can be waived; something can always happen. It is good that this is lifted up. The whole thing could fail. The person performing the procedure shall be able to require the consent of the individual to perform an aesthetic surgery or an aesthetic injection treatment. An operation or treatment may be performed only after a certain period of reflection after the information has been provided and received. This is very good. It sounds like in the future we can have fewer failed interventions and fewer fortune seekers in the industry. This obviously strengthens professionals in the industry as well as patients' rights. All in all, Madam President, we believe that this is a very good legislative proposal, and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f932c7177354e457-172	Madam President, I would like Since the 1980s, we have been living in a paradigm where constant liberalisation and increased competition have been universal solutions. But in the area by area, the state is re-entering, and we see growing pressure from voters and citizens who want regulation and not unregulated anarchy. Before this bill, one could say that the beauty industry was a bit of a Timbroic heaven: no permit requirements, no consumer protection, no rules on who is allowed to do what and last but not least no government view – simply a wet dream for the Timbro Right. However, Madam President, today Parliament is to decide on the regulation of this market. I see it as a market that has abused the good confidence that the Swedish population has in Swedish health care. Health care in Sweden is characterised by a high quality that is maintained by government regulations, knowledge management and research, but also the high ethics of licence professions. Madam President, I would like Anyone looking for or visiting a beauty clinic – it can also be enough with a regular googling – sees that these clinics are marketed with attributes such as white coats and stethoscopes. It is simply an imagery that will make us think that this is health care. The fact that it then sits unlegitimised or untrained staff and injects, for example, Botox, a potent drug with a wide range of potential side effects, is not something you sign or even inform your customers about in some cases. Madam President, I would like One could say that the beauty industry, or parts of it, is working on the good reputation of health care. You simply go free-riding, not least in public and jointly built health care. Therefore, it feels good to be able today to contribute to taking responsibility by regulating this market, which has left behind crushed dreams and patients or customers who after faulty treatments have suffered damage, some irreversible. Many of the injuries are then referred to public health care, which will then sort out and deal with the injuries caused by private operators. It is also a care that is already in a strained position. Madam President, I would like The regulations that are now being introduced include information obligations – the patient should be informed both orally and in writing about the risks – and an age limit of 18 for esthetic injection treatments. Other important elements of the Government's proposal are that the Patient Injury Act should apply and that IVO should be the responsible supervisory authority. We are simply given enhanced protection for life and health. At last, there will be stronger protection for consumers! There will also be rules that clearly benefit the serious players who have always existed in this industry but who have been unjustly forced to fight rogue operators. However, we probably need to move forward with more regulation in both this area and others. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f932c7177354e457-182	Madam President, I would like It detonates a bomb in Malmö in 2019. The investigation looks difficult. There's a camera that captures the suspect. But unfortunately, the person is masked. When the police zoom in on the security footage, you see a tattoo. An attentive policeman recognizes this tattoo. I think this is such a beautiful police work that it surpasses Beck and Wallander with horse lengths. Above all, it is an example of many of the use the police can have of cameras in their work. But it also shows that cameras can't do the whole job themselves. The prerequisite is that there are skilled police officers with good local knowledge. Anyone who rides the fastest on Vasaloppet has the right equipment and the right physics. Anyone who has only the right equipment may well get to the last in the race or not finish at all. Let's put a record on the police. At the same time, we have given them better tools to clear up and prevent crime. Storm steps have been taken against the target of 10,000 police officers in 2024. We have now reached the halfway point. A new camera surveillance team has been in place since 2018. It facilitates the police's work. Last year, the authorisation requirement was removed for more situations, including for pharmacies, which are unfortunately hard hit by crime. An investigation is now working to see if the Police Authority has sufficiently effective tools in border-by-border areas. The proposal of the investigation shall also apply mutatis mutandis to the Coast Guard, the Security Service and Customs. Proposals will be presented in September this year. This is what the fight against crime looks like – step by step, day by day, law by law. The new law on classified data reading, HDA, was the first point in the government's 34-point program against gang crime. The new Act entered into force on 1 April 2020. The law gives the authorities the right to secretly install soft or hardware in a technical equipment such as a computer, mobile phone or tablet and read the content. When the small digital spies, the ones and the zeros, are sent back in the form of information to the police, the police can get the necessary pieces of the puzzle that have been missing to investigate and clear up crimes. Madam President, I would like Since we are not allowed to speak English in the speaker's chair, I am referring to a translation of Mikael Damberg's words: this legislation has meant a game changer. Now it is a new game for serious organised crime. Now the light is on the digital shadows where drug trafficking, human trafficking and murder have been planned in peace. The gang leaders are getting stressed. Sweden will be safer. Step by step, day by day and team by law, we continue with the work against organised crime. But more is going on. The government decided last year to instruct a special investigator to review parts of the regulation of secret coercive measures. Secret wiretaps and camera surveillance may be crucial for the police to move forward in a criminal investigation. The purpose of the investigation is to consider how to make more use of secret coercive measures to combat serious crime. Among other things, it should be investigated whether a permit for secret room tapping and camera surveillance should be linked to a person instead of a place. The investigation also looks at whether a prosecutor should be able to get permission to intercept a suspect more quickly. In addition, the government has announced a bill on enhanced possibilities for the police to search for weapons and other dangerous objects. This proposal will be submitted in September 2021. Now an investigation is also working to see how a court should be able to use stories submitted in early interrogations. Evidence should thus be more readily available and presented in the manner most appropriate in each case. It would provide more reliable evidence and better conditions for judges to reflect what has actually happened and for more criminals to be punished. This, Madam President, is important not least for the victim of crime, who may be free from a stressful trial. In addition, it prevents threats or other pressure from the offender or his gang. Step by step. Day by day. Law by law. As a social democrat you rarely stand at the far end of an edge. When the world is rarely completely black or white, I'm happy to be a gray boy. We're gonna take a strong shot at the gangs, but we're never gonna be the GDR. There must be a suspicion of crime. Legal certainty must always be guaranteed. We must maintain a decent level of integrity. We have to make demands that wiretaps should not happen anyway. I am proud of everything we have achieved since I entered the Committee on Justice for the first time. We've given the police power that didn't exist. With more colleagues and better tools, society changes up. We have done this without abandoning the rule of law. We have done it step by step, day by day, law by law. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would like to endorse reservations 5, 16, 17, 18, 19, 32 and 36 in the report. ( Third VICE TALMANN: It was exciting because there were many claims. We usually have one motion per committee, but I understand that you have discussed it. ) I have discussed this. It is a deliberate violation of the rules because there is a so-called false majority in committee.
i-f932c7177354e457-196	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a motion report on procedural matters. I support all the reservations with which we Moderates are involved, but I only support number 11. There are many good proposals in the report, but I cannot address them all, but I only mention a few. The first concerns secret coercive measures. Secret interception means that the police can secretly tap electronic devices, such as mobile phones. Secret surveillance means that the police can access text messages sent and calls made between two different mobiles or get information about where a mobile phone has been or is located. However, it does not give access to the content of the message or to what has been said in the calls.
i-f932c7177354e457-201	Secret room tapping means what is commonly referred to as bugging, i.e. that the police are secretly listening to a room that is not accessible to the public and where conversations are taking place. This may be used when the minimum penalty for the suspected offence is four years in prison. Bugging may also be used for suspicion of espionage, human trafficking or rape where a prison sentence of at least four years is expected. Secret data reading began about a year ago and means that the police can secretly read data on someone's computer, iPad or mobile. The minimum sentence is at least two years in prison, and the measure must be of utmost importance for the investigation in order for the police to use it. There are many different coercive measures to keep track of. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have more proposals regarding reduced limits in order to use secret coercive measures. The law enforcement authorities today have special opportunities to use secret coercive measures in investigations involving a particular type of systemic crime. This possibility should also cover serious crimes committed in the context of gang crime. We also want to lower the requirements for obtaining data from telecommunications operators on which mobiles have existed in a particular geographical area, in order to prevent, prevent or detect criminal activities. Today, as a general rule, it is required to be a crime with a minimum sentence of imprisonment for two years. We want to lower this requirement to one year in prison, because we believe that the police should be given the tools they need to investigate serious crime. The legal certainty requirements that exist today should also apply to the new conditions that we propose. For example, permission to use secret coercive measures is normally subject to judicial review. We want the police to have massively enhanced access to and surveillance of gang members, as I said. We want the limit for the use of secret coercive measures to be lowered, including for secret room eavesdropping, and for prosecutors to be able to take interim decisions on this. V i also wants the location requirement for secret data reading to be linked to a person and not to a location. Madam President, I would like We propose that it should be possible to use secret interception of electronic communications, secret data reading and camera surveillance against active gang members before committing crimes, in order to prevent them from committing serious violent crimes. Such a possibility exists today in the so-called preventive law. However, it is mainly limited to terrorist and espionage crimes and very rarely applies to gang crime. There is an ongoing investigation into the possibility of using secret coercive measures, as Mr Lantz mentioned, and that is in itself a good thing. What is bad is that the preventive wiretaps are not investigated. It's a big flaw. The assignment will be presented in April 2022. Then it will take more time for the government to present proposals for changes. Or the government may not want to ease the use of secret coercive measures at all. We don't know that. That is why it is a good thing that we have an announcement in the report, but that is not enough. That is why we Moderates have taken a committee initiative in the Committee on Justice on measures to improve the efficiency of the police. The reason is that 2020 was a dark record year for gang crime, from an already very high level. Shooting in a gang environment became a daily crime in Sweden. On average, almost one person a week was murdered in these shootings. Explosives remain at still high levels. These serious violent crimes affect not only gang criminals but also innocent people. The gangs are becoming more and more aggressive, and they don't care if they shoot a 12-year-old or a mother who has her baby in her arms. Madam President, I would like A while ago, Director Anders Thornberg visited the Parliamentary Committee on Justice. He informed us of what he thinks is necessary to combat the serious gang crime. Thornberg felt it was important that secret coercive measures could be used for preventive purposes, i.e. prevention, without concrete suspicion of active gang members, in order to prevent serious violent crimes. So it's about active gang members, not just anyone. The French and Dutch police have this tool and have managed to crack the encrypted Encrochat communication system. There I wonder if Gustaf Lantz, when he talked about the GDR, meant that he equates the French and Dutch police with the GDR? That would be going a little too far. In Sweden there are several major gang trials based on data from Encrochat. The trials are about very serious crime: murder, attempted murder, gross blackmail, and more. We also want to give the Swedish police the necessary tools to combat the serious gang crime. It is necessary for the Swedish police to have the same tools as the French and Dutch police. One might wonder why Swedish police should have worse tools than other countries, especially considering how serious gang crime is in Sweden. The aim, of course, is to combat the gross gang crime, not to listen to law-abiding people. Permission should only be given if there is a clear suspicion that the person against whom the coercive measures are directed is an active gang member – an active gang member, not just anyone and not the DDR that Gustaf Lantz talked about. Authorisations for preventive purposes shall always compensate for the breach or breach which the action entails. The Security and Privacy Protection Board shall supervise the use. In the Committee on Justice, work is under way on this committee initiative, which will hopefully result in the government returning with proposals that secret coercive measures can be used without concrete suspicion in the case of active gang members. I say it again: active gang members, not just anyone and not the GDR that Gustaf Lantz talked about. Here I have a question for the Social Democrats and the Green Party. You often say that you want to destroy gang crime, but yet you do not want to give the Swedish police the tool it needs. Why don't you want to? Don't you trust the chief of police when he says the police need this tool? Madam President, I would like Finally, I am pleased that we are receiving an announcement on the evaluation of the right of plaintiffs. For example, those who have been subjected to serious women's defamation, sexual crime or assault have the right to obtain a plaintiff. In 2018, the rules concerning this were amended in the General Court, which meant that the appointment is valid until the time to appeal the district court's judgment has expired. The reason was that the Social Democrats and the Green Party simply thought it cost too much money. A plaintiff can currently also be appointed to the Court of Appeal if it is deemed necessary, but this does not happen automatically and must be examined in each individual case. It has been pointed out from a number of quarters that this change has had major disadvantages for the victim of the crime, who has been denied the right to retain the plaintiff in the court proceedings. When there is no plaintiff, the idea is that the prosecutors should go in and represent the plaintiff. But this is actually going to be completely wrong. The task of the plaintiff's assistant is also to support the plaintiff, which is not the role of the prosecutor. A major disadvantage highlighted is the need to obtain information from the Court of Appeal. This may apply, for example, if the Court of Appeal decides to release the accused from custody. This is information that is very important for the victim to get in order to get to safety before the perpetrator stands outside the door and knocks on – probably in a terribly bad mood because he may have been in custody for months. Then you can imagine what he has in mind when he is suddenly standing outside the victim's door and the crime victim is not prepared at all. When the victim no longer has a plaintiff in the Court of Appeal, no one is responsible for this type of information, and there is a great risk that the victim will be exposed to new violent crimes. In view of the recent serious violence against women, it is very important that victims receive the support they need. In our motion, we Moderates want an evaluation of the outcome and consequences of this amendment. The Social Democrats and the Green Party are opposed to an evaluation. They state that they assume that the government is closely following the issue and, if necessary, taking the necessary measures. Apparently, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have missed all the warning bells that have been ringing from both prosecutors, plaintiffs and victims. Because warning bells have been ringing. The government has therefore not followed this issue or simply ignored it. The Social Democrats and the Green Party tend to boast that they are on the side of the victims, but here it is clear that they are not. They don't even want to agree to an evaluation of the law. Why do you not even want to evaluate an issue raised as a problem for victims?
i-f932c7177354e457-227	Madam President, I would like We are debating a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs on procedural matters. What we can note is that in the report we have quite a few announcements, namely 15. I should therefore initially like to take this opportunity to ask for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. I would particularly like to highlight paragraph 4, which concerns the licensing requirement for municipalities and regions with regard to camera surveillance. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate here today that the Social Democrats want to move forward with a lot of proposals on camera surveillance, but that they do not want to see any kind of DDR society. It can be fun and interesting to look back at how this debate has sounded over the years. Before we received the new Camera Protection Act 2018, the Swedish Democrats wanted to make it easier for police and law enforcement authorities to use camera surveillance without the so-called permit requirement. At that time, there was a justified opposition from the Red Green Government to making it easier for law enforcement authorities to use camera surveillance. For example, it took three years for the police in Rinkeby to get camera coverage at commuter train stations and other criminal areas in the municipality. It was, of course, an unreasonable relationship but still something with which the government was satisfied at the time, until a fairly broad majority was formed in the Committee on Justice, which addressed announcements to the government to take action to simplify this. Now it sounds like the Red-Green Government has found the right balance point, but historically we know that that balance point has always been processed by the Swedish Democrats. It is clear that we are pleased with this development, but we continue to see a need for other actors to be more proactive in their crime prevention work and possibly also helpful afterwards when crime has occurred through increased camera coverage. This is why the notice on the obligation to permit municipalities and regions is important. We believe it is important that more actors in society are given a broader and perhaps heavier task to work crime prevention. There are ongoing investigations into whether municipalities should be legally obliged to work on crime prevention issues. For example, the permit requirement for camera surveillance would be part of which municipalities can take greater responsibility to secure more places – not least in environments around schools, where you can't watch cameras but where there may be a lot of damage and similar, and also other parts of the municipality. There are other important issues that I would like to raise in the debate, not least one issue that we have debated diligently in this House: gang crime, its spread and its power over societies. This is something that has worsened every year that the Red Green Government has been in power and has made the year we have just left behind, 2020, a record year for shootings, shootings and other types of crime between different criminal groups. As we have pointed out from the Swedish Democrats, this development is a direct consequence of our naïve approach to what segregation can bring to our country. Many other parties in this House have said that immigration is only a profit for society, while we have pointed out that uncontrolled immigration and a naive approach to immigration are the main reasons why we have widespread segregation around our metropolitan areas. The situation has long needed stronger muscles, not least when it comes to procedural matters. The Swedish Democrats have historically been the only ones to point out, for example, that anonymous testimony in court is a key to breaking the culture of silence that prevails today. So there are extremely few murders in gang-related environments that are cleared up, but they are piled up. There are no guilty perpetrators in prison for the murders, and that's a huge problem. The police have information that there are people in connection with the murders who may have seen and heard something – that knowledge exists – but no one wants to talk to the police. This is because one goes in with one's life, perhaps with the life of one's family, as a contribution if one chooses to stand as a witness against organized crime. We think it is unreasonable to make demands on society to stand up for the judiciary when you do it with your life as an effort. Anonymous testimony in courts has been an issue where there has historically been a justified opposition from the Red Green Government until an announcement was made by the Riksdag on the spring edge in 2018. It then became part of what the government then investigated. The reservation in the report refers to the Committee on Justice's proposal for a decision that an investigation is under way into the possibility of allowing anonymous witnesses. In this House we have had many debates, and I have been asking questions in the meantime. The government has strongly spoken in favour of a Crown Witness system, which is part of the same investigation. There you are prepared to move forward, but you leave out the opportunity to testify anonymously in your story of what you intend to proceed with. It is because there is a justified opposition from red-green parties, and for that matter some liberal parties, to introduce the possibility of tackling the complex murders in gang-related environments. In fact, it could be nice to tell you what you think on the substance of the report and not constantly to refer to the fact that you do not want to anticipate an ongoing investigation. We know that the proposal is unlikely to find support in a red-green government when the investigation's proposal is presented to Parliament. I think it is a serious shortcoming that the Red-Green Government has historically been against everything that was necessary until there is an overwhelming majority in the Parliament for the proposal, and then one can imagine going ahead with it in some form. That is not what I would call a good leadership to address tomorrow's problem of addressing yesterday's solutions. Anonymous testimony in courts will be one of the main explanations of how we break down organised crime where few murders are cleared up. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-f932c7177354e457-240	Madam President, I would like Process law is one of the areas that we should pay more attention to if we are really to succeed in building the secure rule of law that we want and that Sweden's citizens deserve. The whole legal apparatus must be constantly evolving, and all law enforcement authorities must be in the best position to do a good job. The good rule of law, a rule of law that most people trust, must balance important values with each other. On the one hand, legal certainty and the integrity of the individual must be ensured. On the other hand, the tools available to law enforcement authorities must be so sharp that they become effective means of bringing guilty criminals to justice. All people must be able to feel that the justice system is for them, that the police are there for us when we need it and that whoever commits criminal acts against us is most certainly caught. The report we are now debating contains a lot of interesting ideas, and it is not unthinkable that many of them will be important pieces of the puzzle in future procedural law. Nevertheless, a solid and structured analysis work is needed to achieve a more efficient and better procedural law. Madam President, I would like It is simply not good enough, without any major plan, to take on a lot of proposals without knowing what effects they will have. The problems that need to be solved need to be given more thorough analysis than guesses and shoots from the hip. The work of the Committee on Justice is often characterised by great professionalism and, in fact, also a lot of political leadership from many parties that manage to put aside the prestige and cooperate for the good of Sweden. However, a common and perhaps somewhat unfortunate principle is that positions are sometimes based precisely on the possibility of making announcements, and so press the government, rather than seeing a motion report, such as what we are currently debating, as a basis for coherent policy development, which helps to create a better regulatory framework through fair, accurate and proportionate laws. This is a responsibility that rests on all of us, but the greatest responsibility must be borne by those who actually claim to rule the country. On several points we have in this report from the committee so-called false majorities, that is, the majority in the committee does not reflect the majority in this House. It is not the Center Party's responsibility to secure the majority in any direction. Apart from paragraphs 69 and 42 of the January Agreement, we do not have structured cooperation with anyone in the area of justice. Yet we force the temptation to score cheap political points by stepping on announcements just to soap the government. Quantity is not necessarily the same as quality. Having said that, I would also like to emphasise the recurrent criticism that I have against the government in the area of justice, namely the lack of a coherent idea of what the government really wants with justice policy. Legal policy becomes a mischmash of a variety of ideas spread across the rule of law. Among them are good thoughts, but in order for these good thoughts to be translated into law enforcement capabilities, more is needed. Madam President, I would like On the initiative of the Center Party, for example, increased possibilities for camera surveillance have been introduced to combat crimes against, for example, agricultural entrepreneurs. We are getting worrying indications that this has not yet come to function fully – this in a reality where animal-keeping businesses are increasingly exposed to serious threats. The Security Service is now talking about eco-fascism, that is, right-wing animal activism. I therefore support my reservation 7 that the effects of the new law must be evaluated. A subset that has not been sufficiently touched upon in this year's report on procedural law is action that meets one of our most important societal problems, namely violence in close relationships. The Center Party has, during this year, raised a great deal of motion on this particular subject, and we have, fortunately, felt strong support from many parties on many of the points. But, Madam President, this is only a start. Our analysis and development work in this area continues, and next year we will come back with an even greater exercise in the area of violence in close relationships. This exercise will include a large number of requests with sharp suggestions in the area of violence in close relationships.
i-f932c7177354e457-250	Madam President, I would like I got this red bracelet with a female symbol from Järfälla women's shelter and Women's Support Anna last week. The role of women's shelters has never been more important than it is now. Men's violence against women permeates the whole of society, from girls learning to look over their shoulder when they get off the bus in the evening, to avoid a man coming firmly towards them on the street, to more serious cases, namely that women are beaten, raped, bought and murdered every year. Men's violence against women is the crime that year after year looks the same. 16 women die a year because men choose to murder women. Gang shootings, criminal networks and MC crime are crime that changes over the years and looks different. But men's violence against women looks the same year after year. There's no excuse. But perhaps it is because men's violence is a violence that can be carried out by all men that the issue is so difficult to debate. Criminality is something you want to blame on someone else, something alien far away. But men's violence is not alien. It's in our midst. They are men from all walks of life, all groups, highly educated and low-skilled, urban residents and rural people. In common, it is men who beat women. What we are debating today is procedural law – how it should work in court, what methods the police should be allowed to use, how witnesses should be protected. These are major and important issues, but it is also legislation that comes into being when the crime has already been committed. 95% of men's violence against women is not even reported to the police. Last year, 25,765 cases of men's violence against women were reported. Understand how big the number of darkness is! The normalisation process for women living in men's violence is brutal. Bruises are waved away by the fact that blood didn't even come. You can put a Band-Aid on the wound. Men are good at hitting where it can't be seen. Women are good at making up on blues. It often takes far too long for the police to get into the picture, and when the police report is made, the big challenge comes. Police work as a priority against men's violence through the investment in particularly vulnerable victims. The police have developed working methods and hired 350 new people. That's good, but it takes so much more. Social services don't work as well as they should. It is a problem that both the National Centre for Women's Peace and Unizon highlights. There is a lack of knowledge and clear guidelines. Yesterday a large number of social workers wrote a debate article in Aftonbladet and appealed to use their skills without the municipality's saving requirements for social services. About half of Sweden's municipalities lack sheltered housing in their own municipality. Women's hotlines need continuous and sufficient funding to carry out work in the long term. Privatisation of women's shelters threatens the entire non-profit support activities and the knowledge that has been built up. The most dangerous period is when the woman – often with children – should leave the husband, when the common home should be divided up, when she should leave. Today, there is no elaborate relief effort when the woman literally leaves the common home. And why is she the one who's supposed to leave it? That should reasonably be the man. There is a need for a review of custody legislation focusing on the protection of women and children exposed to men's violence. The court should not be able to decide on joint custody against a parent's will in cases where a parent has subjected the other parent or child to violence or abuse. Joint custody and association are channels used by the perpetrator to continue to practice violence against the woman. Even when the father has killed the mother, he does not automatically lose custody. It is therefore important to see how recorded interrogations can be used as evidence in trials, for women threatened with silence and to withdraw their complaint. It is a good thing that we in Parliament have gathered around increasing the minimum penalty for gross female discrimination, for example in order to obtain medical records and legal certificates, and that all parties want to review how messages between relatives can be used as evidence. Witnesses must be protected more and better. Today, a woman who testifies to what the man has done to her can risk her life or the lives of her children. The protection of witnesses must be strengthened, as must the right of plaintiffs at hearings in the Court of Appeal. The red bracelet I wear testifies to the vulnerability women are constantly living in. Women need constant protection from men's violence, via women's shelters and through procedural changes. Men's violence must be stopped. Madam President, I would like I will not press for anything today. However, I note that there is a majority of S, MP, V and C who are happy to think a little further, who would like to investigate and analyse political proposals, who are happy to wait for an investigation before putting their foot down. Then there are parties that do the opposite. I fully agree with what Johan Hedin of the Center Party said in his speech. I'm also very happy to soap the government when necessary. But not all the time. Not in every question. Legislation is too important to always make quick political points.
i-f932c7177354e457-268	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country to live in, whether you live in the countryside, in a city or in a suburb. One of the most important tasks of the state is to provide citizens with security through a well-functioning judicial system. Crime violates people's lives, freedom, health and the right to their property. Therefore, we can never tolerate crime. But there is no simple answer to how we create a safer society. By standing up for each other and speaking up when we see that someone is being mistreated or when a crime is committed, we strengthen cohesion and mark right and wrong. There also needs to be faith in the future in all parts of society. Hope to be able to create a better life. Prospects of getting a job. A conviction that it is better to be a part of society than to choose a life alongside. A certainty that when people feel bad, there is a safety net and fellow humans who catch up and help. And a knowledge that when a crime is committed, society and the public will react quickly and clearly, both to assist the victim and to investigate the crime. Madam President, I would like This parliamentary term and the previous one have made many announcements to the government in a number of areas in order to give clearer reactions to crimes. For today's area, procedural matters, the majority of the Committee on Justice proposes that the Riksdag address 15 requests, announcements, to the Government. A year ago, there was a majority in favour of four announcements. So this year it has increased to 15 – seven with a real majority, one from a united committee and seven with a false majority. Gustaf Lantz chooses to break the voluntary agreement to demand only one reservation. Of course, we are free to break this. At the same time, it sets a precedent for the future. There may, hopefully, be other governments. Again, this is a sign that there is a majority who believe that what the current government is doing is not enough. Once again, the parliament must push the government ahead of it in order to have a legal policy that meets today's needs. Once again, it is clear that we need a new government in Sweden that shows the momentum to face a crime that is constantly changing. Many of the announcements proposed in committee are based on proposals from us Christian Democrats, but of course we also support good proposals from other parties in order to achieve a policy that promotes a good legal process. Let me touch on some of the announcements proposed, Madam President. The possibilities for municipalities and regions to conduct camera surveillance in public places and other places to which the public has access should be strengthened in order to increase security and to ensure that more crimes are cleared up. We also want the judiciary to be given appropriate means of coercion to prosecute crimes. The Swedish judicial system should not be tied up by the fact that the legislation lags behind technological developments. We believe that interception decisions should be linked to a person rather than to a telephone number, address or certain electronic communications equipment. This assessment is shared by the authorities that are actually required to use the legislation, namely the Police Authority, the Customs Administration and the Security Service. The Christian Democrats believe that the law should be designed in such a way that decisions on secret interception – as well as other decisions on monitoring, such as secret data reading – should be linked to the person to be watched. The investigation into the increased use of secret coercive measures has been tasked with deciding whether a permit for secret room eavesdropping and secret camera surveillance should be linked to a person. However, we consider it necessary for the government to ensure that the investigation work that is currently under way also leads to a proposal on the requirement of a place and whether it should apply to a person. Madam President, I would like Compared to other countries, Sweden has a very strict application of the principle of immediacy and the principle of oralness, which together means that all the weight of the process is placed on the main hearing while early hearings are given a limited value. Such a regime risks contributing to the culture of silence that often prevails in cases of serious organised crime. The investigation into procedural law and major criminal cases has made proposals that change the principle of immediateness, and the government has also recently decided on a Council of Law referral. However, it is important that the Government returns to the Riksdag as soon as possible with a bill that increases the possibility of using early questioning as evidence in criminal proceedings. Madam President, I would like Many have great anxiety about witnessing. This applies in particular to evidence relating to gang crime and serious organised crime. It is a defeat for the judiciary and for society as a whole when people silence for fear of reprisals and threats. In Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands, it is possible to use anonymous evidence in certain exceptional cases. The possibility is also approved by the European Court of Human Rights, given that these are special circumstances. The threats to the rule of law are therefore not of the importance previously expressed by other political parties. The possibility to testify anonymously in certain specific types of criminal proceedings should be examined in Sweden. After pressure from the Christian Democrats and others, the government decided to investigate a system of anonymous witnesses. However, the Minister of Justice has previously expressed an unwillingness to implement the proposal. However, our assessment remains the same: A system of anonymous witnesses should be introduced, and Sweden should also introduce a system of Crown Witnesses. A Crown Witness is a suspect who may receive a lesser penalty if information can be provided that contributes to the resolution of a crime. This is crucial to breaking the culture of silence in particularly vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like It is also important to examine the new rules on the appointment of plaintiffs who entered into force on 1 July 2018. The consequences need to be investigated. An evaluation should be carried out to ensure that victims receive support and assistance in the legal process. Madam President, I would like In this debate, I would also like to highlight a proposal that we Christian Democrats consider to be an effective tool for suppressing crime. This concerns the seizure and confiscation of criminal profits. The Norwegian Minister of Justice visited Ireland last year in order to learn from the successful work carried out there since 1996. When the agency in Ireland is given a court order, they search and seize money, watches, jewellery and other things if you cannot explain how you got over the assets legally. The Irish model reverses the burden of proof. A person with an expensive watch, an exclusive car or a lot of money in his bank account needs to account for and prove how he has legally earned the assets. The Norwegian eco-crime authority has welcomed the proposal to follow Ireland. We believe that Sweden should also investigate how this approach could be incorporated into a Swedish context. With regard to the organisation of the work, it should be considered whether Swedish cooperation between authorities can follow Ireland's model with a special civil service or whether the best is continued work in collaboration but with stronger muscles and a clear mission on each authority to prioritise the work. We believe it is important to work even more forcefully to seize the status symbols of gang criminals. By going on the money and the status symbols, the work has a greater impact, and it also becomes less attractive to be a criminal. One positive effect is that it could prevent recruitment as criminals who propagate a criminal lifestyle would not be able to show off cars, watches, money and other status symbols. On this basis, I would like to endorse Amendment No 30. Madam President, I would like As today's report and debate show, there are serious problems in our country that need to be met with effective measures. Despite good intentions and great words, the government that has been in charge for almost seven years has unfortunately failed to bring about the necessary change to restore the security that our citizens are asking for and deserve. The committee's 15 draft notices show that measures need to be implemented to change the situation. We Christian Democrats support the announcements proposed by the majority of the committee, as well as the claims of the Christian Democrats themselves, but in this debate, as I said earlier, I only call for reservation 30.
i-8kad3v5ooyeYzLRXdiu6NM	Madam President, I would like During this debate on the P rocess law report, I choose, on behalf of the Liberals, to accept reservation 41. We would like to remind the audience and colleagues of the importance of having a coherent, strong rule of law. This involves a great deal. It is about various resources investments, about reasonable and relevant penalties and about what we are now going to talk about, namely tools in the area of procedural law. It is also about international cooperation and cooperation between authorities. It is about these parameters that we have to play into the work of preventing, combating and investigating crime in order to reduce crime in the long term and increase security. When you consider what balance we need to make, you have to bear in mind that when it comes to such a thing as safety on our roads, for example, we allow the police to stop me as many times a day when I am out riding a car, for example, to check that I am sober. It is extremely appropriate, but it is also a kind of privacy restriction. The police have quite a lot of power there, but I've never actually heard anyone protest against it. Another aspect of the report is the prevention of mass murder, robbery, terrorist crime or the like. Then it takes a great deal for the police and the authorities to act to stop this. There we have chosen another balance, which has its obvious explanation in a democratic perspective. For the Liberals, it is important that we recognise the seriousness of the current situation in Sweden with fairly serious crime that is eating into the community body. We see it directly, tragically and speculatively. Last night another person was shot to death in my hometown Örebro – unclear why, but one can guess. Crime also enters our welfare systems and builds parallel legal systems in large parts of Sweden. Developments are serious, and that is why these difficult issues are being discussed. From several parties we are trying to push the government to realise this. It would have been different in Sweden if much of what we in committee agree on and which is now under way in investigations had already been in place 10 or 15 years ago, when we saw this development coming. On many of these issues, some of the parties, not least the Liberals, want to take further steps. Others, however, have not seen it until now, and it is therefore more difficult to combat serious organised crime. We in the Liberals also see it as almost a democratic law of nature that the rule of law is lagging behind serious crime. We didn't have to have a lot of security checks on airplanes until there were airplanes. We didn't have to talk about secret data readings and the privacy balances that had to be done when there were no computers. When people sent smoke signals to each other, you didn't need any secret data reading. But the eternal question remains: one must weigh up legal security, that is, crime should preferably not be committed at all, against the rule of law, that no one should be innocently convicted, and also integrity. Where's the line? We're not going to be the GDR, but we can't be the Buller Village either. For the Liberals it is important that we are in Sweden here and now and see how it looks. We must not be naive. There are very few people who are opposed to legal certainty and the rule of law. And speaking of integrity: if everything were bugged and if the police had the same control facilities as they have in terms of sobriety in traffic, crime would be greatly reduced, but many would experience it as a violation of privacy. It will be a complete search if everything is controlled, but nobody wants it that way. It's an unreasonable balance. The balance that is always at stake in these difficult issues concerns the need, the purpose and the proportionality. But we have landed differently in a number of areas. As far as this report is concerned, we Liberals want to highlight this with increased search possibilities. There are several levels of this, but being able to search the house is central to stopping not least the gross violence in our streets, which is reaping not only the lives of the people involved, but also the lives of many innocent people. It could have a dampening effect, and violent capital would be squeezed back, for it is often based on weapons. Yesterday the Enforcement Authority went out and signaled the need to hit money and status symbols. Most serious criminals have quite extensive disorders and low empathy. They are quite tragic in many ways but very dangerous. However, they are generally not sadists by definition, but they are doing their business because they simply do not want to go to work. They do not want to work either for the municipal home service in Nora or for that matter for Attendo elsewhere. They don't want to work, but they want money anyway. That's why you're supposed to hit the crime profits. There's a lot more we can do here. It's just been tax days. Then law-abiding citizens in Sweden must account for where every penny comes from, but people who live in criminal environments and zero tax or declare low income obviously still have large financial means. We have to hit the money and forfeit criminal profits. Technology is evolving. The rules on confiscating messages between relatives for use in law enforcement dating back to the 1940s. Then people wrote letters – possibly threatening letters but mostly love letters. Today, people sit and do other things online. The digital development coupled with the development of serious crime with gangs and clan mentality means that we must ensure that this can be used more aggressively in court. Searches, confiscation of criminal profits and the possibility of confiscating messages between relatives are central. Kronwitnesses have been touched here. These are people who help to recognise and clear up their own crime and who can provide strong evidence about money, weapons, crime plans, drugs or whatever it may be – heavier evidence than just an anonymous witness. This needs to be developed, and it is on the way forward. Finally, there are also motions here about the situation of the RACs. It's coming up in court of law. There is the question of how to deal with them. Some improvements have been made in recent years, but the Liberals want it on the record that this is cost-driven, and we therefore find it difficult to push forward there in addition to the ongoing cooperation with the government with regard to the state budget for Category 4, that is, this area. However, there is every reason to consider further strengthening the economic situation of the RACs. I want this on the record. I support reservation 41, which deals with the importance of international cooperation in Europe in combating serious crime.
i-f932c7177354e457-306	Madam President, I would like In early March 2020, together with members of Parliament from several other parties, I received Ted Hui and the Hong Kong delegation he led. They travelled around Europe to draw attention to the situation of democracy and human rights in Hong Kong for the world to care and act, especially at a time when human rights issues had gone down on the global agenda with Donald Trump as President. In May 2020 I saw on Twitter pictures how Ted Hui was brutally dragged out by Parliament's staff when he tried to speak in the Hong Kong Parliament, a parliament like the parliament. The fact that I am being dragged out of the Chamber by the rest of you in here today is, of course, unthinkable, but in Hong Kong it has already happened. In the summer of 2020, the so-called National Security Act for Hong Kong was passed. It made it clear that the justice system in Hong Kong is no longer independent. Several countries have therefore chosen to conclude their agreements with Hong Kong, and the EU has called on Member States to examine the impact of the Security Act on agreements made. On August 26, 2020, Ted Hui was arrested. He was forced to resign as a Member of Parliament in the autumn, and now his family has been forced to flee abroad. They are now seeking asylum, most recently in Australia. The regime has punished him by freezing his bank assets and putting him on a list of wanted ones, as if we were in the Wild West. I found his business card. It says that he is an elected Member of Parliament and that he represents the democratic party, which even has a dove of peace as his logo. The delegation also had a young woman who was withdrawn during a large part of the visit. But at the same time she radiated strength. She was one of the organizers of the courageous counter-demonstrants, those who took over the streets in popular mass protests with millions of participants, those who had to increase their protective equipment when the violence from the police increased and those who occupied their universities in order to make their voices heard. Despite their struggle, they were brutally discouraged by the Chinese regime. Hong Kong's leader Carrie Lam has become the symbol of someone who is prepared to sell out his country and his democracy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government and the EU have for a long time been making a number of strong statements on the situation in Hong Kong. But when it has come to action and action, it has been nonexistent. The EU decision states that Member States should take action. The Swedish Government has not complied with that decision. The government cannot demonstrate a single concrete measure that has been taken. Instead, the government parties list in time and without time reasons why they should not act. That's exactly what Beijing wants. It is therefore good that the Riksdag is today acting and filling the gap created by the Government. The agreement on legal aid between Sweden and Hong Kong is basically a good agreement. It is important that countries can help each other in finding evidence as well as those who commit crimes. It strengthens our rule of law and reduces the criminality of international crime. However, when Hong Kong is no longer a democracy, the agreement risks being a help for the regime to persecute its people. There are exceptions in the agreement that allow one country to deny the other country legal aid. This applies, for example, to political crimes. The problem with the deal is that that assessment should be made by the police, and the police are not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They will fight crime in Sweden and not follow developments for democracy in Hong Kong. The government has linked the agreement to no instructions to law enforcement authorities. They have completely renounced responsibility and do not rule. We've seen it before. Yesterday, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs had a meeting with the Minister for Trade and Export Credit, EKN, after the agency had granted credits to the dictatorship's Belarus. Such things should not happen in Sweden. But such things happen when the government does not assume its responsibilities. If Ted Hui were to return to Sweden, would Swedish law enforcement authorities help the regime to gather evidence against him? We don't know that. But we know that if the agreement on legal aid is concluded it will not happen. We in Parliament take our responsibility. We hereby announce to the government the following: Hong Kong is no longer a democracy. Hong Kong is now run from Beijing. Therefore, Sweden can no longer have an agreement on legal aid with Hong Kong. That is why we are announcing the termination of the agreement.
i-f932c7177354e457-320	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Håkan Svenneling for a good speech and for a pathos for the democrats in Hong Kong, the Hong Kong which was once British. It would be a transitional period that would run for many, many years in order to preserve and develop their democracy rather than dismantle it. That time was shorter than desired. I had the privilege of chairing a delegation from Parliament on behalf of the Committee on Finance earlier in this term of office. That's when it started, you might say. This has been going on for a long time, but that is when the struggle on the streets began. We were then privileged to meet both Swedish companies and representatives of the opposition. We also met test-hugging representatives of the dictatorship. This is central. I am not the one who always defends the government, I would like to emphasise. In the past, however, the issue of sanity and balance was raised in relation to this report. After all, there is some clarity in refusing to extradite people who are clearly politically hunted by the dictatorship, so to speak. I would also like to highlight the fact that this may affect the possibility for Swedish companies that operate in Hong Kong and that need to do so for some time, at least. Nevertheless, we Liberals believe that the presence of Swedish companies or other European companies in Hong Kong can mitigate the effects of what the dictatorship is now about to implement. I wanted to hear if Håkan Svenneling has any reflections on that. It is clear that the Liberals are behind this. I just want to problematise it, but I appreciate the commitment to democracy.
i-f932c7177354e457-325	Madam President, I would like This announcement came about after a motion from the Left Party, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. I took the initiative together with the centre party after there was an interpellation debate in Parliament where the Minister for Foreign Affairs very clearly rejected any demand for the government to act in any way. It was only months after the EU had jointly decided that the Member States would act in order to protect democracy in Hong Kong and protect human rights defenders. That is why we called for action. One of the things we raised was the legal aid agreement. The Minister does not give any instructions. Perhaps it would have been a different matter if it had been said: we should not use this agreement as long as it is a political crime. We will be clear in our governance of the Police Authority and other law enforcement authorities, with this agreement not being used to hunt down democracy activists. But the government did not give us that information, and we have not received it since. Instead, reference has been made to various reasons why the agreement should not be terminated. That doesn't impress me. That is why I am proud that I, Johan Pehrson and other parties are making this announcement today. It is important that Sweden is a clear voice for democracy around the world. You cannot have a drive for democracy from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at the same time you cannot stand up for it when democracy is exposed, as it does in Hong Kong. It is a challenge for us how to support democracy now that the democracy activists have either gone underground or are in prison or have been forced to flee. That is a fact in Hong Kong today. The journey you made with the Finance Committee is not possible today. You can't meet the same people you met at the time. That is why, of course, we must best support Swedish companies that stand up for human rights and want to remain in Hong Kong. I believe that one step could be legislation on corporate responsibility for human rights. I hope that such legislation will come into being at Swedish and European level.
i-f932c7177354e457-330	Madam President, I would like I won't prolong this. That's a wise thing to say. We need a strong China policy – that's what we're going to talk about today – and it includes a focus on the rubble of democrats left in Hong Kong, who may not give up and who have a dream that this is possible. I would like to emphasise that in this context we need to shift our focus towards Taiwan and see what they are now exposed to. First they took Hong Kong – yes, they have taken other things too: people's lives, for example. And now they're targeting Taiwan. We must put pressure together from Sweden and the European level, which are absolutely crucial. We can gladly bring, as it were, a more democratic, more progressive administration in the United States to do what we can to build an axis of democracies that puts the pressure that China has to face. There are thirsting democracy activists who atrophy or are murdered in China.
i-f932c7177354e457-332	Madam President, I would like I and Johan Pehrson agree with each other about a lot in this change of line. What we as a Parliament and as Members of Parliament need to focus on is the imperialist policy that China is now pursuing. We see great powers trying to influence the countries in their neighbourhoods. You talk about internal affairs when you don't want us to look at what happens in their own backyards. That is where we must speak out and clearly point out the violations of human rights in China. It also applies to the way China tries to influence its neighbours, where Taiwan, as Johan Pehrson is concerned, is the prime. We need to keep our focus on Hong Kong. We need to lift the Uighur situation in Xinjiang or East Turkestan, as it is called. We need to continue to focus on Tibet, where China de facto has an iron grip on the situation. But we also see other regions on which we must not lose focus, such as Inner Mongolia. There, Sweden has recently announced the rejection of political activists from Sweden to Inner Mongolia. You can see that minorities also in them – what can you say? – under-guarded regions are vulnerable and persecuted for their political and religious views. We, as Swedish parliamentarians, must stand up for this.
i-f932c7177354e457-336	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a vast country with people scattered over large land areas – people to be defended every day. They shall be defended against crimes, against folly, against the weather, against fire and against accidents. To help us, we have heroes in various forms. Some have worked full-time, such as Seveyio's Ecer and Samori William at Södertörn Fire Defence Association. Others work part - time and get away with a few minutes' notice from their regular jobs as carpenters, teachers or economists. We all owe it to them that we can feel a little safer, but above all more secure, knowing that if the accident is there, they will do their utmost to help us. Today's proposal is clearly a step in the right direction. The background is an announcement to improve the conditions for Sweden's part-time firefighters who, among other things, were involved in pushing forward. The government did not at first want to introduce sector-specific exemption rules, while we Moderates felt, and continue to consider, that in this case an exception is justified for a completely unique occupational group that is inexorably severely affected by the current rules. Madam President, I would like We Moderates welcome the initiative. We also support the proposal as a good start, but note that unfortunately this is not enough for us to get the results that we consider so important: that we can keep our part-time firefighters. Their employment for society is not just on call and practice. They must carry out materiel care, make sure that pre- and post-work works in connection with having been out on a mission and above all: They must pull out with or without blue lights in search of the minutes in order to do their job – saving lives and property in order to safeguard our society. The problem that exists here and which we are trying to solve is that part-time firefighters should be able to continue to function with full strength even if some part-time fire fire is lost to their main employment, i.e. the job in industry, agriculture or their own company. With today's rules, part-time firefighters' compensation is lost from the unemployment fund, which helps them to give up their second job rather than risk the family's security if a checkout is reduced. Society thus loses extremely important skills, and the outcome may well be devastating for a small society that has been hit hard by unemployment. Madam President, I would like The most common position for a Swedish firefighter is in a part-time corps. Of Sweden's nearly 16 000 firefighters, over 10 000 work in part-time stations. We have Johan Wolter at Åker's fire station, Andreas Andersson at Avla Fire Guard and Therese Andersson and Rasmus Blom at Gnesta Fire Station – an industrial worker, a dairy farmer, a clerk and a salesman who are all prepared to respond with a few minutes' notice in a crisis situation. It's about ordinary people who advise and fix their everyday lives and make sure they're not more than five minutes away from the fire station. They set up backup babysitters for their own children so they never risk standing alone at home with the children when the alarm box beeps and the superhero suit is to be pulled on. The pandemic has demonstrated with all undesirable clarity the vulnerability of the current system, and it is essential that we take responsibility for improving conditions and ensuring emergency preparedness. It is important at a time when the SOU 2018:54 clearly stated that the supply of personnel and the ability to recruit and retain personnel is one of the biggest problems in Swedish civil protection. The same study establishes that part-time firework is a special job carried out as an auxiliary job in addition to ordinary employment and that the general rules of the social security systems are not adapted to such employment. It is also argued in the study that unemployment insurance is primarily a significant negative impact on staff supply, and therefore proposes that the majority of work as part-time firefighter should be excluded when calculating unemployment benefit. Part-time firefighters must be able to continue their socially important task as an extra job even if they lose their main job without the unemployment fund being reduced. Madam President, I would like Today's proposal is a truly welcome first step, but we believe that it needs to be supplemented in accordance with the report 'A more efficient municipal civil protection system' in order to further plug the risk of once again falling into the basic problem: that part-time firefighters' unemployment fund is deteriorating because of their important social commitment. Swedish civil protection is largely dependent on the part-time corps in the country. In addition to being there when the fire comes loose or when the car accident is a fact, in recent years, they have clearly demonstrated to us that they are indispensable to forest fires, droughts and floods. The fact that two out of three firefighters do not have this as their main occupation speaks clearly when it comes to the importance of ensuring that the conditions are made easier for them to remain at work. After two separate courses and in some cases further training, part-time firefighters are ready to serve us, for their countryside, for their municipality and for their fellows. It is totally unreasonable for them to risk losing in the long run on making a bet for others. Madam President, I would like It is central to the provision of civil protection personnel that there are reasonable conditions for employees so that throughout the country it is possible to recruit and retain the skills of our firefighters. This is something that SLR, together with the trade unions Vision, Kommunal and the Swedish Firefighters Association, have previously brought to our attention. I believe that it is now our task – we here in the Swedish Parliament – to ensure that the obstacles are removed so that the firefighters can continue their mission. It is our duty, like the firefighters, to stand up for us in order for their terms to be reasonable. That is to ensure the security of our citizens wherever they are in the country. I hereby support our motion – that Parliament should return with additional exceptions in unemployment insurance for part-time fire workers.
i-f932c7177354e457-354	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that perhaps for once, at least a little bit, would praise the government. The proposal that is on the table today is a first step in the right direction to ensure that part-time firefighters are able to continue their socially important work even when they become unemployed and laid off from their regular work. Madam President, I would like In total, there are nearly 16 000 firefighters in Sweden, and we need every single one of them. Of them, nearly 11,000 are part-time employees. They are the base of our protection against fire and danger. The system of part-time firefighters is thus a supporting part of the Swedish emergency services. Every year hundreds of new part - time firemen are recruited throughout the country. This is absolutely crucial for us to achieve safety in Sweden. These are the facts. It's not like that. This is actually what it looks like. And in fact, there is no doubt that this is the case either. Therefore, it should be everyone's job and goal to ensure in every possible way that current part-time firefighters and future workers feel secure in their employment. As a part-time firefighter, you have another regular job that you get to step aside to carry out your part-time fireman assignment. And this is where problems may arise when a part-time fireman is laid off from his regular job and needs unemployment benefit. Today – before the Riksdag makes new decisions – a part-time firefighter is financially affected by unemployment, and then there is an obvious risk of abandoning his mandate or not seeking out for this type of assignment. This is, of course, a threat to civil protection's important mission throughout Sweden. In part, the Government's proposal resolves this as preparedness and exercise are exempted from the normal rules of unemployment insurance. It's fine, but it's not enough. We can do better in the Swedish parliament. The Government's proposal states that the government makes the assessment that the consequences will be great if the entire work as a part-time firefighter is to be taken into account in the calculation of unemployment benefit. ..................................................... That is all, Madam President, and cannot reasonably be regarded as very exhaustive. We must know nothing more than that the government is making this assessment. That's not enough. In fact, it feels on the verge of disregarding the Riksdag but above all against Sweden's part-time firefighters, because it is about them. Madam President, I would like That is why we Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, want the government to be given the task of seriously investigating the possibility of including the entire part-time firefighter's work in the exception of the calculation of unemployment benefits. We are convinced that it is possible, if you want, to extend the opt-out. It would facilitate recruitment, and it would make more people stay in the profession when dismissal takes place. Madam President, I would like I demand approval for the bill and for our and the Moderate's reservation.
i-f932c7177354e457-363	Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have said, today we are discussing a change in unemployment insurance. It is an improvement in unemployment insurance which takes into account the specific and special circumstances of part-time firefighters. The Government proposal proposes that this improvement be implemented, and hopefully the proposal will be approved at the vote later this afternoon. It's very good and positive. It is a question of weighing these parts against each other when dealing with unemployment insurance. On the one hand, insurance, in order to maintain its legitimacy, is to replace those who suffer unemployment and are to be used as a conversion insurance. On the other hand, in this case, one must weigh the very special situations facing a part-time fireman. This has been done, and that balance is well thought out. So far, we agree on this. Madam President, I would like Then the Moderates and Christian Democrats want to move on according to their reservation. Michael Anefur of the Christian Democrats stated here that the government does not let him know why this proposal looks like it does. And the moderate member referred earlier in the speaker's chair to SOU 2018:54 and argues that it has support in this investigation for its reservation. For those who listen to this debate, Madam President, I would like to make two points. One is Michael Anefur. You can lead a horse to the water, but you can't force it to drink. It is clear that if Michael Anefur does not read the basis of this proposal, he will of course not know why the government makes the positions they make. The second concerns the representatives of the Moderates. The Government states precisely SOU 2018:54 as part of its basis for reaching its conclusions and making the difficult balance between meeting the needs of part-time firefighters on the one hand and maintaining the function of unemployment insurance on the other. Then it is precisely SOU 2018:54 that is claimed. If Michael Anefur had taken the trouble to read the documents before he took the floor, he would have been able to find out. But knowledge cannot be imposed. You actually have to take it to heart, too. I also think it is important to refer to the somewhat strange situation that we find ourselves in when Moderates and Christian Democrats in a reservation want to be better and more generous, so to speak, and extend unemployment insurance more than the Social Democratic-led government. Then you can be a little thoughtful. What does this stand for? What does this mean? Then I would like to say that this is an old knowledge, namely that Moderates and Christian Democrats are fantastic opposition politicians but that they are bad in government positions. That is something we have been able to see time and again. In a government position, they act in one way and in opposition in another way. This issue of part-time firefighters has not arisen during the last two terms of office. It is an old discussion that has taken place with regard to unemployment insurance. One of the problems that arose and that focused attention on this was when the representatives of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the government introduced the so-called part-time restriction in a regulation in 2008. It drew attention to how hard this hit part-time firemen and all other part-time workers. During the two terms of office when we had a moderate government, unemployment insurance was largely up every year. Every time, the insurance was impaired. Compensation was reduced, part-time restrictions were introduced, regulations changed and fees were increased, which made it more difficult to get into the insurance and to get something out of it; the compensation was worse. Of course, this also affected part - time firemen. After the Socialist-led government has taken over and we are now in the second term of office, there have been proposals on unemployment insurance which have improved it on the spot. We have changed the regulations on insurance so that it will be easier, for example, for those who work part-time. We have increased compensation, and we have made sure that insurance is so balanced that people choose to participate and that those affected by unemployment receive a fair compensation. Thus, when the Moderates lead the government, the insurance is reduced and the part-time firemen are reduced. When we Social Democrats lead the government, we improve unemployment insurance, and we improve for part-time firefighters. This is reality; that is what it looks like. It is just to go in and look at the protocols that exist how the debate on this insurance has been in this House and what decisions have been taken – decisions that are entirely determined by who is sitting in this House. If we have a majority led by Moderates, insurance will be worse and worse for everyone, including part-time firefighters. If we have a Social Democratic-led government, insurance will be better for part-time firemen as well. I think this is extremely important to keep in mind when listening to this debate – who knows what the issue is about and has read on before going up in the speaker's chair and who pretends to want the insurance and the unemployed and part-time firefighters well but when you have the opportunity to do something always acts the other way around. With these corrections, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motion.
i-f932c7177354e457-377	Madam President, I would like Patrik Björck from the Social Democrats is taking it from his toes not to answer the questions asked. It gets very ideological and pompous and on the verge of a little brazen when he says I'm not trained. But maybe that's how it should be. I don't know. The old cliché about leading horses is interesting. You can lead the horse to the water, but you can't force it to drink-- no, especially if there's no water. Madam President, I would like It is quite reasonable to question why the government in the bill cannot even try to argue on one of the most important points: why it does not want to exclude more parts of the part-time fireman's work. It is exciting in some way, Madam President, that the honourable Member spends more than six minutes not really saying anything about why we do not want to do it even better for part-time firefighters. I look forward to Patrik Björck telling me, of course, what is stopping the government and therefore also Patrik Björck from actually making it better for part-time firemen.
i-f932c7177354e457-380	Madam President, I would like So I'm being asked by Michael Anefur to explain why the government doesn't do it better. It'll be very difficult, because the government will do it better. That is the whole point of the proposal we are now discussing: to make it better for part-time firemen. That is why the bill is on Parliament's table, and that is what we are debating today. It is, of course, Madam President, when it comes to unemployment insurance, a balance between who is to receive compensation and when. It is, like the whole idea of unemployment insurance, to delimit who has the possibility of receiving compensation and how it should be calculated. There is a complicated regulatory framework around this, and it is about insurance having its legitimacy and responding to what one as an employee, or entrepreneur for that matter, should be able to expect from insurance in the form of protection. This is limited, and now that the government is making a change, it has been about the balancing process: how can we make it easier for part-time firefighters but still maintain insurance as a conversion insurance? Then reference is made to SOU 2018:54. There you can read, if you want. That text contains, figuratively speaking, water, Madam President. It states that the task of maintaining preparedness is to be excluded and that all part-time firefighters participate in exercises that should be excluded. It then states explicitly that other tasks should not be excluded. This is thus explicitly stated in an investigation that forms the basis of the bill – for those who want to drink the water.
i-f932c7177354e457-383	Madam President, I would like Two more minutes went by and we didn't get an answer. Madam President, I would just like to remind you that my question to Mr Björck was why you do not want to do that – listen now! Even better for part-time firemen. The answer from the honourable Member is: we are doing it better. But we fully agree on that. No one will vote against it. My question was, why don't you want to do it even better? As far as the famous waters are concerned, what the honourable Member reads out from the SOU is about what is in the bill: we consider that. That is not much of a matter of substance. Then let me ask you, what prevents you from moving on? We can talk about social security and unemployment insurance for a long time. But if we now make one or two exceptions, why can't we go further in this very special case and do it really well for part-time firemen? It is not really the case that we are in the Chamber today and disagree that we want part-time firefighters to have a better and safer situation in the event of unemployment. We are in complete agreement on this. What we do not agree on is how far this security should go. There is a difference of opinion. It is, I would say, a rather modest demand from us and the Moderates to ask the government once again to look at whether it would be possible to exclude more duties for part-time firefighters. It's a rather courteous request. I think the honourable Member and the government should take this on board.
i-f932c7177354e457-387	Madam President, I would like Now I referred to a few sentences in an investigation that contains 300 pages. My speaking time in a two-minute line is not enough to read 300 pages of investigation. Surely even Mr Anefur must understand that, Madam President? In addition, I only have the chapter containing twelve pages specifically describing this issue. If the honourable Member had wished, he would have been able to take note of the whole of the reasoning leading up to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliament. There's nothing special about this. The question that Michael Anefur wanted to be answered was answered, Madam President, both in my speech and at the beginning of the line. But I'm gonna take it one more time. As we are now improving for part-time firefighters with a proposal which, after careful preparation, has gone through the Committee on Employment and the Committee on Defence and which is based on the work of an investigation which has worked for a long time and presented a 300-page report, we have weighed how this improvement should be done so that it can maintain the legitimacy of insurance and improve for part-time firefighters. This is the balance that has been struck – carefully, properly and with a large base. I have now answered for the third time the question of balances. It is not certain that the honourable Member takes this on board, wants to understand it or agrees that this balance is correct, but I have now answered this question for the third time.
i-f932c7177354e457-392	Madam President, I would like In my world, you don't get far with vomit. I hear the honourable Member ralliing over the intentions of the Moderates, but I do not hear why the Social Democrats, now that they do have the chance, do not want to meet us Moderates. With your support, we would have been able to offer a change and an improvement for our part-time firefighters who would have made a real difference. I am curious as to why we see this passive position when the hand is stretched out.
i-f932c7177354e457-394	Madam President, I would like Of course, whether my speech was vomity or not is a matter of each one's own self-assessment. However, I was surprised, Madam President, if I am to express myself cautiously, when I heard Ann-Sofie Lifvenhage from the Parliament's pulpit refer to an investigation that does not have many years on its back, and which forms a basis for the report that we are discussing here today, and to refer to it quite wrongly. Apparently, she's read sloppyly or not read the investigation. I found this remarkable, and I mentioned this in my speech. It may have seemed vomity. Then I listed some facts about how the Moderates have acted in relation to part-time firefighters and unemployment insurance when they have actually been in power and have been able to put proposals on Parliament's table and when they have also had a majority in this House and have pushed through all these changes and deteriorations for part-time firefighters and other unemployed. The answer to Ann-Sofie Lifvenhage to why the proposal in this report looks like it does is the same as Michael Anefur was given: it is the difficult balance between opening up insurance to a very special occupational group with very special requirements and, at the same time, maintaining the legitimacy of insurance and the task of insurance to compensate the unemployed. There are many and difficult balances in such insurance. It is a very complicated insurance policy, and it is about the unemployed being compensated, the right compensation and nothing else.
i-f932c7177354e457-397	Madam President, I would like I don't believe in getting on high horses. I think you should identify problems and try to do something about them. I have successfully led a municipality with cross-block cooperation with the Social Democrats. I would have liked the honourable Member, along with his party, to have supported our initiative, because I have experience of when you can actually make a difference in matters where you feel the same. We were talking about a SOU. I have highlighted the pages with the lines to which I referred. The study therefore proposes that the majority of part-time fire workers should be excluded from the calculation of unemployment benefits. I take it as nothing more than a rather clear request. I would be happy to share it if the honourable Member wanted my copy. I believe you're supposed to be in the present. The past and what parties have said and done a long time ago is very easy to hide behind if it is so that you want to try to throw shit. In the present, however, you can actually do what you want, which makes me very happy in the present. I would appreciate it if the Social Democrats would also like to be present and join our motion.
i-f932c7177354e457-401	I would remind the honourable Member to use a cherished language.
i-f932c7177354e457-402	Madam President, I would like I sincerely hope that the content is the same in our various copies of the state inquiry – otherwise we obviously have a huge concern. I would very much like to take note of Ann-Ann-Sofie Lifvenhages's copy of the investigation to inspect it. It would be remarkable if there were two different texts in the same investigation. The person who really reads the investigation sees that an entire chapter is devoted to the design of the exception; this is on pages 227, 228, 229, and so on. It lists why you want to make an exception for preparedness and exercises and why you do not want to make exceptions for the others. It's available in my copy of the investigation. I very much hope that it is also in Ann-Ann-Sofie Lifvenhages's copy, so that we do not have different investigations. Then we have a different and bigger problem, Madam President – we will have to look into that afterwards. I'll move on to this with cooperation. I think cooperation is good, and I am prepared to work with Ann-Ann-Sofie Lifvenhage and anyone when it comes to good proposals. As far as I am concerned, this proposal is supported by six of the eight parties in this House. I think that's a pretty good support to get together. We do not always get all eight parties to support a proposal, but the fact that we have got six out of eight parties to support a proposal is, in my opinion, a pretty good proof that we have put forward a balanced proposal that has received broad support in the Swedish Parliament.
i-f932c7177354e457-405	Madam President, I would like It is positive that for once the government is acting on an announcement from the Swedish parliament; that is something we have not been spoiled with during this parliamentary term. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats see the proposal as a step in the right direction in order to ensure access to emergency personnel within the fire brigade. The problem of having part-time work that includes standby or on call during unemployment is quite unique for part-time firefighters, which is also highlighted in the bill and by several consultation bodies. Of course, it can be discussed from an equal treatment perspective, as is done in the bill. Madam President, I would like Against this must be balanced that part-time firefighters have an extremely large and socially important mission and special employment conditions. Against this background, there is a need to take measures to introduce an exemption for part-time firefighters in the current regulatory framework. Like the government, we believe that it is justified to introduce an exemption for part-time firefighters in the current unemployment insurance. Madam President, I would like However, from an equal treatment perspective, we believe that any other occupational categories that may be affected by the same problem should be identified and investigated in order to enable them to benefit from the exemption, as we write in our specific opinion. We will follow developments, of course, and we will come back to them in other contexts. Madam President, I would like I choose to stay there and therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-f932c7177354e457-412	Madam President, I would like This is a question we've heard a little about. It has been affected in an investigation that was set up already in 2017 and that made some proposals in early 2018. In this way one can imagine that it has been a bit slow to act. It took an announcement from Parliament, in fact in the Committee on Defence last October, to update the situation during the pandemic in order for it to lead to an appropriate response by the government. On the other hand, I think that when the government is now doing something good for a group of workers – it actually happens sometimes, even if you are surprised then – it makes sense to pay attention to it. And it is good that the government has now acted relatively quickly and that we can now get this amendment of the law in place. I think it is important to understand how this problem arises. It is not always easy to understand how the rules and exceptions of unemployment insurance work. That is a problem in itself, we can say in parentheses. Unemployment insurance is, of course, a very good and important system, but it has also been eroded and complicated in different ways, but it has also been patched and fixed. It is reasonable to have the basic elements in place, i.e. that it is insurance against the drastic effects of unemployment and that you should be available for other jobs. It is also in the definition of unemployment that one lacks a job plus looking for a job, that is to say, one who is part of the labour force. The problem that arises in the case of part-time firefighters is related to the fact that the name part-time firefighters is a little misleading. Part-time firefighters do not work part-time in the usual sense, but rather are emergency firefighters who play an extremely important, if not crucial, role in the protection of society in very large parts of the country. What is in conflict with the unemployment insurance regulations is that preparedness and practice to some extent undermine the right to access unemployment benefits for that time because it is not an adequate paid job in any reasonable sense. Therefore, the consequences can be very unreasonable for the individual, and that is what has been stated here. For this reason, the derogation now proposed is very reasonable. However, as pointed out in the study on which the proposal is based, the exemption is reasonably balanced. It is not easy to understand the motion of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in this respect. From what I have read and seen, I cannot decide whether it is simply due to misunderstandings in these parties or whether there is also an active will to misunderstand. In any case, it is important to point out that the point here is not the working conditions for part-time firefighters, and that is not what we are discussing here. There are also no proposals from M and KD on working conditions in this context, but it is about ensuring that the important work that part-time firefighters do by being prepared does not lead to unintended effects vis-à-vis unemployment insurance. Perhaps it is a little remarkable in view of what we heard earlier, to say the least, of the kind of attitude that these particular parties have had and have towards unemployment insurance. It has been at the forefront of dramatic reductions in unemployment insurance for all in terms of regulation and level, and it has also been against proposals for improvements in that insurance. But we can come back to it on other occasions. When it is said that the government has made this assessment and the balance without explaining it, I can point out, in addition to what Mr Björck previously did here, that there are also a number of consultation bodies that make this assessment. This is clear from the not very thick bill that has been put on Parliament's table and which we are discussing today. One might imagine that the debaters here would have read it a little before they engage in this discussion. There is one thing that is very relevant to consider. Although this is a specific problem for part-time firefighters, it is also a problem that occurs in other parts of the labour market, so it very clearly touches what is called a secondary job in unemployment insurance. There is today a balance that is, in itself, reasonable. It does not want unemployment insurance to be used as general income support for economically unsustainable entrepreneurship or hobbies of various kinds. On the other hand, it is not reasonable for someone to have to lay down something that generates income simply because he or she has lost his or her main source of income and is at the disposal of the labour market. The current rules on some parts of the genuinely existing labour market may create significant problems. This applies, for example, to artistic activities – the more classic gig economy. There are good reasons for continually reviewing the rules of unemployment insurance in this respect. It does not come from the need to strike a balance, but it is reasonable to look at these things. We need well-functioning, flexible and generous unemployment insurance in Sweden. It is an extremely important part of a modern welfare society and a dynamic labour market policy, and there is much to do there. Above all, it is important today to ensure that more unemployed people can actually qualify for insurance. It is also important that the principle of loss of income in insurance works for those who qualify there, i.e. that more, preferably at least 80 %, receive the 80 % of previous income to be covered by insurance in the event of unemployment. This is not the case today, but you can get there if you raise the level. Again, these are very important issues. We will return to them in other contexts. I am pleased to note that today's report is a reasonable solution to a limited problem but may have very large and totally unreasonable effects on a group of whom we are all very concerned and which is doing an extremely important job in society, namely part-time firefighters. I and the Left are in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-f932c7177354e457-428	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has hit Sweden hard and the world hard in the past year. What began as a virus in a region of China that few had heard of has, of course, come to be spread around the world, where many people have become sick and died. Many have also lost their job or seen their businesses literally perish. Madam President, I would like For time to come, I only call for reservation 8, but of course the Moderates support all the sensible proposals in the report. Madam President, I would like Quite exactly a year ago we had a similar debate on economic policy. I was talking about a number of entrepreneurs who I had met early in the Corona crisis and who had been hit really hard. It was the representative of the hotel who had lost 90 percent of their guests and hairdressers who had lost 95 percent of their customers. This hairdresser also saw his company go bankrupt a while later. One point I made in the debate a year ago was that many of the things the government had done in the crisis were inadequate and that much more had to be done to secure the Swedish economy, jobs and businesses. I then presented a list from the Moderates with clear reforms to secure jobs and businesses. What has happened in the last year? The Parliament has made regular decisions, including on various forms of support for companies. Some have worked pretty well while others have been handled really badly. One of the biggest problems of the last year has been the slowness of the government. While traders, restaurateurs and other entrepreneurs have struggled for the survival of their companies, the Minister for Economic Affairs has waited for weeks and often months to decide whether to help affected companies at all. It has often taken weeks and months for a proposal to be put on Parliament's table. After the parliamentary decision, the processing time has been long, not least at Tillväxtverket, before affected companies have finally received the money. Tens of thousands of entrepreneurs have been affected by the government's inability and blunder. I very much regret that this year the government has not listened more to entrepreneurs, business organisations and parties like the Moderates. Then you could have made more targeted and powerful efforts to save businesses and jobs. Beyond the Corona crisis, Sweden still has a number of the problems and challenges we had before the Corona crisis: widespread insecurity, extensive segregation, lack of school outcomes and differences between students. The Corona crisis has also forced the development we could see earlier. This applies not least to digitalisation, where both companies and individuals have been affected. Digitalisation will increase in importance later on, and we as a country must do much more, not least in AI, artificial intelligence. Madam President, I would like One thing that worries me about the coming years is the sharp rise in unemployment in Sweden. Prime Minister Löfven promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate, but under his leadership we have come to have one of Europe's highest. During this crisis we have seen that important jobs in restaurant and commerce have been lost, which has made it more difficult not least for young and foreign born to get jobs. Breaking the alienation will be a big and important issue for a future, new government in Sweden. It is usually pointed out that Sweden is a trade-dependent country because about half of our economy consists of exports and imports. Selling products and services in other parts of the world has for many decades really been the handrail to secure jobs and prosperity in Sweden. That fine industrial companies in Sweden sell to customers in other parts of the world is therefore not new. The new thing is that competition is growing rapidly and is becoming more fierce, and we cannot take anything for granted in any way. The important thing at the end of the crisis, as we hope, is that we have a discussion on how to strengthen Swedish business and competitiveness. A second major and important task for a future new government in the field of industrial policy is to shift this work and shift away from the government's passive industrial policy. Madam President, I would like Let me be a little concrete. One of the biggest obstacles to the development of all categories of both the economy and green change is the unprecedentedly long permit periods. At the moment there are several companies that want to focus on mines, electricity grids, electricity generation and other important parts of our economy and society. Often there are both plans and money, but one thing that many of these companies return to and appeal to policy on is rules and permits. It costs too much money and takes too long. As an applicant, you don't always know what it takes for you to get an environmental permit and be able to build the power line or start the factory. It has been known for several years that it may take ten years or more to build a new mains electricity line. Nevertheless, it took the government three years before a legislative proposal was tabled the other day which, at the margin, could change this part of the electricity grid regulation. Of course, that's not good enough. Another example is that companies that are going to establish themselves in the country not only look at transport, labour and ports, but also how rules and bureaucracy work. The county administrative boards are thus allowed to decide where a new factory can be established because it can be perceived as simpler or more difficult. In practice, therefore, places that are good and well-functioning can be chosen away because the government does not adequately control the rules. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a well-functioning country. For example, it is very easy to start a business via the Swedish Companies Registration Office. We are well regarded as a good country for innovation and development. But let us be clear. We also have a number of problems and challenges. It will be necessary for the Riksdag to decide to continue to increase support for crisis-affected entrepreneurs so that we are ready if the Corona crisis continues and that we set a clear deadline for complete applications. A government needs to address more future issues. The business environment must improve, integration must be resolved, unemployment must be pushed back and industry must be lifted. All of this will require Sweden to have a new government with a new political direction.
i-f932c7177354e457-449	Madam President, I would like Indeed, nutrition policy and its conditions have been thoroughly stressed over the past year. As the impact of the pandemic has affected business, the demand for industrial policy has increased. I am usually among those who believe that enterprise policy should aim to create the conditions for a good business climate without unnecessarily interfering. It should be a business environment in which both new and old companies can operate and grow and where Sweden's ancestry as an innovation-driven nation should be able to survive. It is entrepreneurs who create new business opportunities and lay the foundations for new innovative companies. It is companies that create Sweden's growth and prosperity, not politics. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats advocate clear and long-term rules for the entire business community, for both large and small companies. It is important that companies are given the opportunity to operate in a market with clear frameworks and without unnecessary regulatory hassle. We believe that this is how Sweden's future prosperity should be built. In order to build future prosperity, it is not least important that policies create favourable conditions for small businesses. Most new jobs are created in growing small businesses, and it is these companies that have accounted for a large part of employment growth in previous booms. Small businesses thus have a key role to play in increasing employment and reducing unemployment. It is our view that enterprise policy should therefore focus on removing the obstacles that exist to encourage more small businesses to start and grow. Furthermore, we advocate general investment in small and medium-sized enterprises, which will benefit all sectors and entrepreneurs. This general approach to the issue – this ideological conviction of the need for a market economy and free trade – has shaped our industrial policy. However, Pandemin's rampant overthrow of the usual rules of the game for both the Swedish business community and the global economy has created a need for other measures. The policy has had to step in with the supporting measure to try to offer artificial breathing to otherwise viable Swedish companies. It has received from us friends of a market economy, but it has been directly necessary. When, through restrictions and recommendations, policies limit the conditions for companies to pursue their business activities, it is only reasonable to replace them for this purpose. Unfortunately, it has worked far from optimal. Although many companies have received support for conversion, lay-off, rent and so on, the government has left much to be desired in this work. Firstly, it can be noted that Swedish crisis aid has been extremely cheap in relation to the aid offered to industry in comparable states. Secondly, it can be noted that the Swedish crisis aid has been repeated for far too long, in order to finally get into place only after long and solid work from the opposition in Parliament. Thirdly, it can be said that Swedish crisis aid has been regularly stuck in the bureaucracy and has not been paid out as quickly as one might wish or assume. Traders have been out with money to the government for up to six months. Traders have retained staff in the belief that the government's promises will be fulfilled in order to ultimately only increase their own debt. The government's work in developing, implementing and paying out crisis support has been under criticism. Unfortunately, it is the business community that has paid for it. Madam President, I would like Without releasing the effects of the pandemic on Swedish business, which I am now addressing in my speech, I can say that if our general industrial policy had been in place even before the pandemic, the conditions for business would have been different when the pandemic struck. Why? Because when the pandemic struck and the visitors, the orders or whatever it is for the individual trader did not exist, other inhibitory causes were the last thing they wanted to worry about as entrepreneurs. These are regulatory problems, unjustified administrative burdens, potential capacity and electricity shortages, skills supply concerns, outdated licensing processes, crime and other factors that, even before the pandemic, burdened the business community and stifled it from developing and achieving its full growth potential. It was bad enough as it was. All these problems still exist, but now many companies are also affected by the consequences of the pandemic. If, before the pandemic, we politicians had eliminated both the problems just mentioned and other problems, the business community would not have had to worry about them, but the business community would have been able to focus entirely on halting the effects of the pandemic on them. It goes without saying that it would have made it easier for them to tackle only a growth inhibitor. It is a pity that this is not the case. It is a pity that the Swedish Democrats have not achieved enough of our policy in this House and that the government has chosen not to act in all the cases we have actually got our policy through and the Riksdag has addressed announcements to the government. These are announcements on promotion missions to public authorities, on simplified digital interaction between public authorities, on not over-implementing EU directives, on sunset clauses for new rules to ensure that they fulfil their purpose and so on. However, the fact that the government sat on its hands before the pandemic is too late to influence now. What is even more serious, however, is that the government has chosen to be passive during the pandemic. Instead of recognizing that industrial policy action can form part of the economic relaunch package, it has chosen not to act, even on pending announcements in this area. It is a pity; it is a genuine pity for the Swedish business community that the government has not taken any more industrial policy measures to enable as rapid and painless a restart as possible. The motion report that we are now debating contains a number of proposals from the Swedish Democrats who had made a real difference to the Swedish business community. These are suggestions for: 中 strengthened Swedish competitiveness and a competitiveness index 中 an Industrial Commission to ensure good conditions for Swedish manufacturing industries A systematised approach to simplifying rules between the state and the business community 中 to facilitate business research To facilitate the start-up of businesses through, among other things, a start-up of self-help for professionals
i-f932c7177354e457-469	中 marketing of Sweden to guarantee tourism after the pandemic and so on. I would therefore like to conclude by stating that the conditions for business had been strengthened by our policy. I am in favour of our reservation number 9 under item 6, other on business promotion.
i-f932c7177354e457-471	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has now been going on for over a year. There are many of us who are quite tired. But it's easy to be a little tired. Many, perhaps thousands, often small entrepreneurs are not only struggling with fatigue. They're fighting all over the country to make their life's work survive the pandemic. It is a matter of self-sufficiency. But it is also about being able to keep employees. It is jobs that are incredibly important for the local economy and absolutely central to the individual's life. We all know that the pandemic and restrictions have made the fight tough. It's getting smaller between the customers and harder to get the plus and minus to go together. For many fundamentally healthy, well-liked and well-managed companies, there have been red figures for over a year. It might have been easy to handle in a normal mode. But now something else is affecting. That is why, in January, we have negotiated support measures, which have in many ways facilitated and helped companies to endure in anticipation of better times. These are measures that have had a great deal of support. In principle, the whole Parliament has been involved and contributed to these improvements in a rather pragmatic way. That's good. There's money for business support. However, there are a lot of cases where it really does not work. Business support is stuck with the authorities, where long processing times and extensive red tape cause entrepreneurs to live in anxiety and uncertainty. There are examples of entrepreneurs who have called to find out when payments can be made and who have been met by the agency having hung up the phone. Of course, although it does not happen every day and certainly is a consequence of the fact that the case officer is also under stress, under pressure and weighed down by work, it is totally unacceptable. Media, e-mails and business organisations will constantly testify that it does not work properly. Handling needs to be much better. When entrepreneurs turn every sausage ear around and fight for the business to go together, the support money of politics has to come out. It must not fall into the hands of the authorities. We cannot have companies that go bankrupt and people who become unemployed because the public does not deliver. It just can't work this bad. That is why I am in favour of reservation 24 by the Center Party on the service of the authorities. Madam President, I would like Regrettably, the crisis aid promised continues to lag behind, and the impact on smaller companies is brutal. I met Lalle Mo r berg, a restaurant owner in Gothenburg, a few months ago. He told me that the government owed him over $1 million. He had had to sell his summer house in order to continue paying wages to his staff. It is absurd that entrepreneurs who have spent huge sums of money in taxes and contributions to the state for years do not get the help they should have expected. Not long ago, we were also in contact with the small businesses Erica and Erik Sjöström, who run a hotel in Nordmaling in Västerbotten. Now they have to pay back a large part of the support they received from the responsible authority – a quarter of a million – due to incorrect data from the Swedish Agency for Growth. Let me start from the beginning. This summer Erik was in contact with the authority to get help with the required reconciliation that is also reasonable. Unfortunately, he received the wrong date for submitting the data. Two weeks later, when he submitted the reconciliation, he did not know it was too late because he had received the wrong information from the authority. Several months later he was told that he had to repay the entire amount paid. Erik and Erica have now appealed the whole thing to the administrative court, and unfortunately they are not alone. There are many similar cases where only a few days' delay or minor administrative errors have caused entrepreneurs to lose their support and cannot seek it again. They are simply in danger of going bankrupt, and many times this is due to mishandling by the authorities. It cannot be right for the Swedish Agency for Growth to keep entrepreneurs waiting for decisions in this way, and it cannot be the case that you get rid of the entire amount of aid. There must be some rhyme and reason. The Center Party has therefore acted by ensuring that more resources are available to the authorities. But this is also about government government governance. My colleague Helena Lindahl has asked Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan a written question if he cannot ensure that his authorities are managed a little better and a little more. That is exactly how it was done at the beginning of the crisis when it focused on getting the money out and having oversight with smaller, administrative errors. However, she received no answer other than what the current regulatory framework states. This responsibility lies with the government, and it must be taken by the government. Madam President, I would like The report is about more than just this support, although of course it is what is most urgent. But when the crisis levels out and hopefully does not come back, state venture capital is incredibly important. According to Growth Analysis, the majority of all venture capital exists in Sweden's three largest cities. It is quite natural that 50 percent is in Stockholm. But elsewhere in the country, access is more scarce, and businesses sometimes find it difficult even to obtain loans from the local bank. It is therefore logical that state venture capital should be concentrated in places where the market is failing and where venture capital is almost non-existent. It is therefore good that state-owned Almi has a focus on the whole of Sweden and not just on Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, but this should apply to all venture capital. The fact that the state bank SBAB has abandoned northern Sweden is nothing more than a mockery. If we're going to have state institutions, they should be available everywhere. Previously, there was the state-owned venture capital company Inlandsinnovation, which focused on loans and participations for entrepreneurs in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna, i.e. where there is a shortage of venture capital. Unfortunately, all parties except the Center Party supported a move of the 2 billion that existed to a company – Saminvest – based in Stockholm. I now hope that the company also focuses on companies outside Stockholm, throughout Sweden, but it is difficult to find out from the annual reports which companies you invest in at all. I am therefore pleased that Mr Saminvest will come to the committee tomorrow so that we can ensure that their work takes place throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Everyone, regardless of gender, should have the opportunity to start and run a business. That is not the case today. Perhaps this is the case in theory, but not in practice. Markedly more men than women run businesses, and women find it more difficult to obtain funding for their entrepreneurship. In an international perspective, there are major challenges. Although Sweden is a role model for equality between men and women in general – we are in third place after Iceland and Norway in the World Economic Forum's rankings – we are among EU countries among the lowest ranked when it comes to women's entrepreneurship. We are in the same class as Ireland and Malta. A recent survey ordered by Almi reinforces this picture. The proportion of women entrepreneurs in Sweden does not even increase, but declines. In recent years we have lost from around 29% to 27%. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. Sweden deviates from the EU's positive trend. The report also shows that fewer targeted national efforts on focus groups have been made in recent years. This needs to change. We need a business environment that benefits everyone.
i-f932c7177354e457-490	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Rickard Nordin's speech, you cannot help but agree with much of what he has to say about the need for emergency aid, better functioning of aid, faster payments, a fairer system for possible repayments and so on. It is quite easy to lull into the belief that Rickard Nordin is part of an opposition foundation that is critical of the government, which wants something other than what the government wants, which puts the government against the wall and takes responsibility for creating good conditions for the Swedish business community. However, it is relatively long ago that the Center Party constituted an opposition to the Social Democrats and the Green Party. On the contrary, it is now, to a certain extent, a joint body of government that cooperates. During the pandemic, it has been clear to the rest of us – the real opposition of Parliament – that the Center Party has run the Social Democrats' affairs. Time and again, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and others have made committee initiatives in the Riksdag when the Center Party has said: No, we cannot take a position on this now. We can't push the government. We cannot ensure an announcement in this important area. One example of this is the conversion aid. There, the Center Party backed away, despite the fact that the media said that it was behind conversion aid, it did not take a stand in committee. Instead, they chose, as they said, to engage in dialogue with the government. So it was not long before it arrived. Madam President, I would like If the rhetoric used by Rickard Nordin in this House had been common during the pandemic, the Parliament as a platform would have had a much clearer mandate to lie on the government and get much-needed support measures in place. But that has not been the case, and I ask Rickard Nordin: Why?
i-f932c7177354e457-494	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is that it is the government's responsibility to govern the authorities. I thought Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats understood this because it is constitutional. No one who has been in the negotiating rooms where I myself have been negotiating the financial issues can believe that the Center Party has run the Social Democrats' affairs. If anyone has pushat for increased and extensive business support, up to the levels approved by the EU, it is the Center Party. We've been laying on and pushing the government in front of us and making things better. Unlike the Swedish Democrats, we take responsibility and act. It is easy to sit in a finance committee or a business committee and complain. However, the Center Party makes a real difference here and now for companies in cooperation with the government. On the other hand, something that would also make a real difference for the vulnerable sectors is the Swedish Democrats' own budget, which was presented last autumn. They proposed a tax increase of 14 billion for the restaurant business. It is not taking responsibility for those companies that are in a crisis right now. Therefore, my question to the Swedish Democrats and Tobias Andersson will be: How the heck does it go with supporting crisis-sponsoring companies?
i-f932c7177354e457-498	Madam President, I would like I note that Rickard Nordin is happy to change the focus on this issue. I understand him. I would not have been very proud of the Centre Party's efforts during the pandemic either if I were a center party. Above all, I would not have been if I were a small business, a former centre-party voter. Then I would have been genuinely critical of the attitude of the Center Party in the role it has in the government base that governs the country. The government has, of course, the ultimate responsibility for lying on its own authorities and ensuring that they act in a desirable manner. But the Center Party is at the same time part of a government base. There is an agreement with the two government parties. It also has the possibility of exerting pressure on the formal government. You could say the same: the Center Party does not accept that critical companies are without support. You could say as such: the Center Party does not accept that aid should be paid back in the way it is now. You can say as such: The Center Party rejects the slowness and penitence of the government when it comes to crisis support. This may have been done by the Center Party, but in that case behind closed doors. They have not dared to expose this criticism to either the voters or the other parliamentary parties, and they have certainly not dared to make a blow to the cause of this criticism through the parliament's ability to address an announcement to the government. Instead, the crisis-stricken companies that had needed a strong political force and strong political pressure against the government that was slow and stingy and sometimes completely overlooked the needs of the business community have been let down time and time again. The question that appears to me is: How far is the Center Party prepared to go? When's it gonna stop? When does the Center Party say from to the government? Here we draw a line; if the government does not act now, we leave the cooperation – when will the Center Party say so?
i-f932c7177354e457-503	Madam President, I would like I note that Tobias Andersson does not mention in a word the 14 billion in tax increases proposed by the Swedish Democrats for the restaurant industry. They would beat the industry that is now the most vulnerable. I understand he doesn't want to, because this is very problematic. There is also quite a lot of selective hearing, I think, at Tobias Andersson. Maybe he's in his filter bubble. The Center Party has pushed for increased aid levels. We have said that many times in this House. We have increased the resources available to the authorities so that more people can be hired. We have been pushing the government before us, both in this House and in the media, when it comes to ensuring better governance of its authorities. We, including myself, have also been clear on many occasions in this House – Tobias Andersson can listen to the recordings of the parliamentary debates – that the money must come out now and that support must be maximised. The Center Party is and will be a nail in the eye of the government when it comes to business support. The difference between the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party is, firstly, that we lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship in the vulnerable industries, while the Swedish Democrats are happy to raise them, secondly, that we take responsibility and are involved in steering this country in a better direction than would otherwise have been the case.
i-f932c7177354e457-506	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Rickard Nordin painted a description of many of the problems that had arisen. He referred to our common hometown and Lal le. I really do share this, I'll say. The past year has hit so hard on many entrepreneurs. Many in the Riksdag have contacts with people who have been affected and who have literally fought for the survival of their company. Then, Madam President, one can only be modest in pointing out that the Center Party is a subset of marriage with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I understand that Rickard Nordin wants to excuse himself a little bit and say that governance by the authorities is the responsibility of Ibrahim Baylan and others. Nevertheless, the Center Party, the Liberals, the S and the MP are ultimately responsible for some of the handling of this. But I would like to change some tracks, Madam President. Based on the criticism that exists and to better manage crisis support for affected entrepreneurs, there are currently two concrete proposals in the Riksdag. One is handled by the Committee on Finance and is about developing new or developed conversion aid. There have been criticisms that the lay-off aid for staff is a bit complicated. Then there is a proposal to raise staff costs as part of the conversion aid for those who have lost a great deal. The second proposal is being dealt with by us in the Committee on Industry and Industry, and means guaranteeing those who have a complete application – nothing else – that they will receive money within four weeks, in that case in the form of lay-off aid. Both of these proposals are important for affected entrepreneurs here and now, but also – god forbid – if we continue to have problems with the pandemic this summer or after. Madam President, I would like to ask Rickard Nordin: Can the Moderates expect us to have your support for these important entrepreneurial reforms, or will you choose to support Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats?
i-f932c7177354e457-512	Madam President, I would like These are two proposals which are currently being prepared in the respective committees, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs. As far as the Committee on Finance is concerned, I believe that the spokesperson there will have to answer for himself, since it is his own preparation that neither Lars Helmered nor the undersigned sit in. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Center Party has been creative and solution-focused. We ourselves have made proposals for improvements to the proposals made by the Moderates. We will deal with these proposals in committee tomorrow. For the Center Party, it is incredibly important that the money comes out to the companies that need it. It can be trusted that the Center Party will take the fight and ensure that it will be as good as technically possible. Many times it may be that changes in aid involve delays and, in some cases, deterioration. It is therefore important to get an overall picture, so that you do not do anything that on paper may seem good but that in practice then leads to major problems. That is why it has been important for us to include professional organisations and other things in the discussion. Lars Helmered can rely on the Center Party to work for the things that improve for the companies. Lars Hjälmered also highlighted what he calls the marriage of the Center Party. Maybe I'd rather call it cooperation. Lars Hjälmered is also involved in a collaboration, which his party itself has sketched out together with Christian Democrats, Swedish Democrats and, to some extent, even Liberals for the post-election period. We heard in the previous shift that a party that Lars Hjälmered wants to enter into marriage with – according to his own definition – wants to raise taxes for vulnerable industries. What does Lars Helmered think about that?
i-f932c7177354e457-515	Madam President, I would like I think the Center made a bad choice when it chose to join the S-MP government and support them during this term of office. I respect the fact that the Center Party has done so, but I think it is genuinely bad. I think it would have been better for Sweden and above all for Swedish industry if bourgeois forces, which basically often have a different view on important issues of market economy, ownership and other things, had done the same thing. I think that crisis management often shows a fundamental difference. I think the Centre Party is in charge, but I think that the government is ultimately responsible for this. There is much that the government has done badly. In order to compensate for shortcomings, a degree difference between the January parties is shown in the basic view of enterprise. I must have told you. I think it would have been better for the bourgeoisie if we had joined forces in this. Now we come to a number of sharp questions. That is quite right, as Rickard Nordin says: the proposals are being prepared in the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs. They are important in principle, Madam President. These are concrete proposals. One is a proposal for a developed and improved conversion aid, which I would say is demanded by many of the companies that still have problems, i.e. taxi drivers, restaurant owners and others. One sees a large mark in turnover as well as problems with lay-off aid. There is a unique and good opportunity here that could help here and now but also provide preparedness for the case the pandemic continues. The second proposal, that of the Committee on Economic Affairs, provides for a clear guarantee of service, combined with stricter penalties. We will have to come back, but I hope that the Center Party will choose to support the entrepreneurs and the Moderates and not Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats in the committees in the coming time.
i-f932c7177354e457-521	Madam President, I would like I think this is quite reciprocal. Lars Helmered says that the Center Party has made a bad choice this term of office. I believe that the path that the Moderates have made for the time after the next election is at least as bad from the point of view of the Center Party. After all, we are going to elections to create a government in the political centre with broad consensus and to keep the outer parties out of it. It would have been fantastic if we could find a way back to an alliance community together with other parties, create a majority for it and keep the outer border parties out of it. I think it would have been good for the Swedish economy. Unfortunately, that was not the case when it came to the mandates after the last elections. That is regrettable. But it was mainly because the Moderates lost quite a few seats in the election movement, so it should probably not be blamed for that. When it comes to business support, I can only repeat what I said earlier. The Center Party will work to ensure that as many companies as possible will receive as much support as possible based on the criteria that are possible according to an overall assessment that works, so that we do nothing that improves for some but worsens for many others. We will work with it seriously, both in the Finance Committee and in the Industry Committee. As early as tomorrow, we will have this up in the Committee on Industry. The Center Party has been involved in trying to improve the proposals made by the Moderates. I hope that the Moderates will support the Centre Party's pre-amendments.
i-f932c7177354e457-524	Madam President, I would like We live in turbulent times when a lot has changed due to the pandemic, which I also lifted up last year. Who would have thought that today we would still live under it? The Corona virus has really challenged and challenged us as a society. The pandemic has exposed the economic inequality and weaknesses of our structures, and it has made clear the consequences of the impoverishment of health care. And violence against women shows that we still have a lot to do with feminism as a tool. Young people have had to study from home, and this has exposed the differences between children and young people in Sweden. The economy affects the possibilities for some families to buy properly with food. Many have lost their jobs. Business has also been affected. Swedish small businesses are hit hard in most areas. The tourism industry, local trade and small-scale production have an extra struggle. We have become very aware of how vulnerable we are in the global world, where a large part of our raw materials and products are imported from other continents, but also how much our local restaurants, traders, hairdressers and shops depend on us having the economy and opportunities to buy their products. Madam President, I would like We believe that we need to rethink the issue of how companies should be run, what production should look like and how we should really support our small businesses. Companies need to become more long-term, but we also need to ensure that more people can take part in, for example, unemployment funds when the situation becomes as tough as it is today. At this point, Madam President, it is important to support what needs to be prioritised here and now. It's a matter of securing people's economy and welfare. We in the Left Party will support the government in this work, of course by raising the needs of small businesses and the social rights of small businesses. Once the crisis has settled, we will be presenting more proposals so that we can secure small businesses in such situations. We need to feel hope, and for me, part of this hope is the opportunity to develop the capacity to switch to new conditions. Today we have discussed a lot about state aid. We had a special debate last week. As a party, we are behind much of the crisis measures and other changes introduced to keep society afloat and save jobs and businesses. The Left Party has been highly committed to supporting the right measures and proposing measures. For example, the Left Party has been involved in pushing forward the support for events for culture and sport, along with the Moderates among others, as described by Folkets Hus and Parker: This money is crucial for there to be a cultural life left after the pandemic. ..................................................... Another change proposed by the Left Party as a committee initiative was the changes to the a-cash rules for individual entrepreneurs. In the past, entrepreneurs were not allowed in any way to maintain anything when the entrepreneur was given a – cashier. It doesn't make any sense. Individual entrepreneurs must be able to keep the information up to date on the website and maintain the information to their customers. Otherwise, there will be no companies to run when work can resume. I think we can see that the opposition has made a difference to the opportunities of companies. At the same time, state aid rules must be tightened up. We cannot give millions and billions of aid that will be a basis for company bonus dividends next year. It is provocative that Volvo, which has laid off thousands of employees and received over 1 billion in crisis support from the state, pays out bonuses – as much as 118 million! And Attendo has received 120 million in state aid going to raise management salaries and to multi-million-dollar bonuses. Here the Left Party has put forward proposals but has not heard. Every company has to do its own thing, especially when we run with everyone's tax money. In the case of welfare companies, whose greed seems to have no limit, it could all be resolved by removing profits from welfare. Our common welfare is not something you should profit from, but the money should go to the business they are intended for. During the pandemic, this has also become clearer – how some companies use corona support, have precarious employment and save on staff. It is simply the case that the market economy in some parts should be kept away. We have much to learn from the crisis. We need to strengthen, and here companies have a responsibility. People need secure employment and a good working environment. We do not need jobs that should be employment to be replaced by self-employment because we want to avoid employers' contributions. It's untenable in a crisis. But we can, if we want, create opportunities. We are in a climate crisis that we need to deal with, and now that states are willing to open up treasury funds and borrow in order to keep society afloat, perhaps investments should be forward-looking. The flight doesn't take off, so maybe it's time to switch the traffic to train and boat? We don't have to fly everywhere. It is faster to take the train to Växjö than to go out to the airport, queue, take the flight and then do the same process again in Växjö. So why not just invest in trains on these routes, for starters? Invest in the local tourism industry so that people vacation within Sweden! Make Sweden accessible to everyone, even for families with lower incomes! Invest more in research, so that we take the lead shirt in industry's climate transitions! All of this creates jobs, safer jobs, for the future. Support SMEs to a greater extent! Encourage other forms of enterprise than speculative ones! It is the smaller companies that secure the possibility of full employment and provide innovative solutions. They need more support to succeed in driving development forward and creating new jobs. Compared to other countries, Sweden has a slightly lower share of small businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises also have a very small share of the research and development that is taking place. This means that all the products, systems, processes and other services provided by sustainable development companies are also left behind once research is transferred to a larger company. Often these companies are bought by foreign investors, and jobs end up outside Sweden. I want to see a greater diversity of forms of business operation and ownership, in which cooperatives and workers-owned companies form an important part. Cooperative entrepreneurship means that, in many cases, members are involved in the business, thus gaining influence and increased responsibility. This may involve individuals who want to run companies together or different forms of structures where companies cooperate in certain industries. Cooperative entrepreneurship has also proved less vulnerable in times of crisis, when these enterprises are more viable and have a higher survival rate. Cooperative entrepreneurship is long-term, democratic and sustainable and contributes to positive social development. Today, cooperative enterprises contribute about 10% of GDP. This means that these companies are important in Swedish entrepreneurship, while co-operative entrepreneurship today has a lower status in some respects than several other forms of enterprise. It will be a problem for small entrepreneurs, for example when they are borrowing from the bank. Here we need to get better. Support for the Coompanion organisation, which works with business advice for cooperative enterprises, can facilitate the work of cooperative enterprises. We also need more research, development and dissemination of information about cooperative companies. For me, the issue of power over one's own workplace is central. I want people to have influence over and participation in their work and in production, that is to say, to democratise companies. Employees-owned companies are a model of joint ownership which also creates greater room for manoeuvre for the employee. The same applies to companies undergoing a generational shift. There we also need to work a little more, and there, employee-owned companies can be a solution. We definitely need to develop entrepreneurship into a more sustainable enterprise that works long-term and not after speculation. It gives us a more resilient society to deal with future crises. Finally, I would like to highlight our policy on women entrepreneurs, where we have put forward proposals on, for example, women's innovation. We want 50% of state funds finally to go to women. I request the approval of reservation 11.
i-f932c7177354e457-547	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas pointed out in her speech that in one of the cases the Left Party and the Moderates had joined forces. It was about event support, something that has been sought after by many when it comes to both concerts and sports events. I think it was really welcome that we could act together in Parliament and respond to some of the problems in society. We can see that there are sporting events that may not even be able to survive after having to cancel perhaps not only once but even twice before we get through this. The same is true of the cultural sector, of course. If I listened correctly, then Lorena Delgado Varas said something like the Left Party will listen to what entrepreneurs want to go forward in the crisis. I can then state, Madam President, that unions such as the Swedish Engineers but also employers' and industry organisations such as Visita, Svensk Handel, Transport Corporations, Almega and Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have all said: Faced with a time guarantee in the short-term lay-off subsidy! It should not be for cheating and automatically, but if you have a complete application then set a service guarantee and supplement with other penalty! Then I would like to ask, Madam President: can we, on the basis of Lorena Delgado Vara's reasoning on listening to what entrepreneurs want and wish in this respect, expect the Left Party to support the proposal that the Moderates have put forward to introduce a time guarantee for complete applications for lay-off aid and to tighten sanctions for those who cheat?
i-f932c7177354e457-550	Madam President, I would like As far as the sanctions for those who cheat are concerned, we have nothing against that. However, we have discussed whether there really is evidence to show that this will have the effect that is expected. Unfortunately, these two parts are presented together in the committee initiative. Regarding the time guarantee, we see a problem with such a type of governance. We have seen in many different cases, not only in this case, but usually in setting a time guarantee, pressing officials, regardless of the workload, to deal with the cases within a certain period of time, which often ends up with them perhaps missing out on the right basis and so on. Furthermore, we see and have been told in committee that the authorities have worked very hard to bring down these times. I think they are now in five weeks when you have all the papers in place, so to speak. If we give the authorities the opportunity to work a little harder on this, I think we will reach the four-week mark. But putting a guarantee will lead to perhaps ignoring some parts of the evidence to make it in time because of the workload.
i-f932c7177354e457-553	Madam President, I would like As far as aid is concerned, it is right to help entrepreneurs who have been affected. However, a problem has been not only that the government has been slow in deciding whether to help and in making legislative proposals to the Riksdag, but also that it has often been possible to take a very long time for the authorities to handle this, even in the case of complete applications. My expectation of authorities like the Swedish Agency for Growth is that you do a tough, early and clear control, for example during short-term lay-off. Claims a company that it had five or ten employees, then immediately check the paid tax that has come to the Tax Agency and see if the data are correct! Here I think there are two problems we can see right now. One is that for all honest entrepreneurs, which is indeed 99.9%, it takes far too long when you come in with your complete application. We need a clear guarantee of service there. Even in a couple of weeks, in a crisis situation for a restaurant owner, it can be immensely long. The second is the penalties, the crime and the penalties. In this respect, we note that there is a special provision for non-compliance with conversion aid, but not for non-compliance with lay-off aid. Even the government's own investigator Stefan Strömberg has asked for this, but the government has not acted to squeeze those who cheat with this kind of support. It is the other end where I think we should make demands in Parliament. We will later have to engage in a dialogue and discussion and see if we have the Left Party, in whole or in part, in this. However, I think these are important issues in which Parliament should act forcefully in the near future.
i-f932c7177354e457-558	Madam President, I would like This will be discussed tomorrow in committee. As I said before, we have nothing against the changes regarding the penalties for the companies that cheat. I think you need to make a mark. We have seen that there have been several cases where this has been exploited. However, I see the time guarantee as a problem. Anyone who has been involved in local government policy knows that as soon as a guarantee of time is given, pressure is also put on officials to make decisions within the set time limit to keep statistics as clean as possible, and then they are missing things. I don't think it's a good thing. This is our tax money anyway, and they're going to go to the right things. If they go to the wrong company, we probably won't get them back, because it's very hard to get the whole amount back.
i-f932c7177354e457-560	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the major report on nutrition policy. Among the 37 reservations is one from the Left Party. If you take part of it, you will be somewhat inquiring about what constitutes the Left Party's industrial policy, this broad political area that extends from one to the other and contains many potential measures for the Swedish business community that had facilitated the conditions for starting, running and developing companies. The Left Party's reservation is about proposals on different forms of ownership. They want to see more cooperative forms of ownership, and they want to see more employee-owned companies. There somewhere the question arises as to how the Left Party should make this possible. Are you unhappy with what it looks like now? Everyone who wants to start a business is free to choose their own form of association, whether they want to run companies themselves or collectively with others. In her speech, Lorena Delgado Varas problematised the issue and said that we need to democratise entrepreneurship. Even there the question arises if not a public limited company, if anything, is a democratized company where Lorena Delgado Varas and anyone listening can easily open an account and buy shares, be part of the company, attend annual meetings, take part of the decisions made, push for change and so on. That, if anything, must be a democratic enterprise. What does Lorena Delgado Varas think a democratic enterprise is? Why should public limited liability companies not be such companies?
i-f932c7177354e457-564	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with an example concerning the democratisation of companies. One example is the company that I myself worked in before I entered the Riksdag, namely Astra Zeneca. The company realized that it needed to research and develop new drugs because the drugs they had worked with for a long time had the end date of the patents. This led to the withdrawal of certain medicines, which was reflected in the market. Stocks dropped in value, simply. Then what happened? Well, we risked that Astra Zeneca, one of the major companies in Sweden, would be bought by an American pharmaceutical company because the shares had fallen in value. Then there was the opportunity to buy. I do not call it the democratization of a company. However, when I talk about democratising companies, I talk about the impact and opportunities for workers to influence their workplace and the direction of the company. Can the company be made more sustainable? Is it possible to do more for the working environment for the workers? That is what I call the democratization of companies, not that anyone can buy shares and decide.
i-f932c7177354e457-566	Madam President, I would like At the risk of not becoming wiser from the answer, however, I must admit that if Lorena Delgado Varas believes that anyone should not take over companies, it should first of all be pointed out that the workers whom Lorena Delgado Varas refers to very well themselves for the salary they earn from the company, which they receive as a thank you for their services, can choose to buy shares in the company. They can choose to take part in the journey that the company makes. If the company makes profits and increases in share value or receives increased dividends, they will also enrich themselves. It's free for everyone. Lorena Delgado Varas touches on an example that I myself do not know, namely that Astra Zeneca was afraid of being bought by another company. The only way I see to limit such a possibility is to de facto limit free enterprise and property rights, to put an end to who can buy what. It is a radical idea if you, from Lorena Delgado Varas and the Left Party, mean that you should enter and direct and set over that a company may not buy up another company. The alternative might be to allow the company that is bought in to close down, for all workers to lose their jobs. The potential growth and development in the case of medicinal products had slowed down and failed. Then there are opportunities for a company that sits on capital, which has innovative ideas, to buy up a company and drive it further and create more growth and prosperity that we can all share in. Is that an opportunity that the Left Party wants to limit? From the last line from Lorena Delgado Varas, I understood it that way. That would be troubling.
i-f932c7177354e457-569	Madam President, I would like I agree that workers can buy shares in the company they work in and thus influence the direction. But what I mean is that it is sometimes easy to change the focus on companies or to close them down. We have seen several examples of companies being bought up and then closed down.
i-f932c7177354e457-570	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Christian Democrats, I would like to endorse Amendment No 12 in the report, but, in principle, of course, I support all our positions. For Swedish entrepreneurs, the last year has been a steel bath that none of us in this House or anyone else could have predicted. Of course, we should be humble because it is easy to make mistakes when new and unexpected problems arise, but the more important is that those who have the power to make changes really listen and understand what an entrepreneur's everyday life looks like right now. Many people testify that there is a lot of administration and time spent trying to do everything right and right according to the rules and guidelines that exist for the various crisis support that the Government and the Riksdag have decided on. But there is also enormous frustration that applications have not been simplified or that the information has improved. It's been a lot to take care of over the past year. Several of the industry organisations, such as Visita, Swedish Commerce and Transport, say that things have gone the wrong way. It hasn't gotten any easier. Madam President, I would like On Friday, a special debate took place in this House on the long deadlines for the payment of emergency aid to businesses. Unfortunately, that debate turned into a focus on those companies that seize the opportunity to commit criminal acts with the existence of aid schemes. Unfortunately, there are rogue companies that act with evil intent, but fortunately they are not in the majority or even near that. Of course, it is extremely important that rogue companies should not receive the aid to which they are not entitled, but I must nevertheless say that the state must treat companies with respect and at least properly confirm that the application is received. The government's own investigator Stefan Strömberg, who has been tasked with proposing measures against corona-related crime, visited the Committee on Economic Affairs last week. A joint message that I take with me from him is that the Swedish Agency for Growth may not have been given the task of managing short-term support from the beginning and that the work should be provided with more resources and at the same time be given better management. I still wonder if the government parties do not see that there are things that should have been handled differently and that there is still a chance to improve, but it must be done urgently. That is why many of us in the opposition have nevertheless initiated a committee initiative, which the Moderates have talked about in the past. It is a question of time guarantees being introduced anyway. It has been a year and the processing times have not improved and the handling has not been made easier. Madam President, I would like Regulatory improvements and simplifications for businesses are another area that has fallen behind in the last year. Now, if ever, it is extremely important, in parallel with crisis work and support measures, to actively look at how industry can get out of the steel bath. It is an important welfare issue because a well-functioning business sector is absolutely essential for there to be some resources for welfare. We have for a long time received clear signals from the business community that there is much in the current regulatory framework that should be reviewed based on an ambition that it should be easy to start up but also run companies in Sweden. For our business community, the pandemic has brought bankruptcies, and more appear to be. In addition to providing support and to some extent artificial breathing, it is therefore all the more important to build counterfire to create the best possible conditions for entrepreneurship in our country. Madam President, I would like In 2018, the OECD addressed recommendations to Sweden. One of these was that Sweden would create a common web portal that can be used when it comes to consultation on rules, to take note of rules and suggestions, etc. A few weeks ago I had an interpellation debate with Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan about the simplification work and what happens in the future because last March we received a message from the Minister of Economic Affairs that this with a web portal was something that would be in place within a few months. The answer to the question about the common web portal was that it already exists. The Minister for Industry referred to the government's own website. There is everything, and thus the recommendation for a common web portal is taken care of. I am not entirely sure that the industry thinks that the answer corresponds to the mission. At least I don't, and time goes by. As far as simplification policy is concerned, the answer is as follows: our government intends to come back in the near future with decisions on the new objectives of simplification policy, which promotes Swedish competitiveness and the ability to adapt and innovate. He who waits will see. Madam President, I would like As we all know, there are parts of the business community that have got away relatively lightly. Some sectors have benefited most from social distance and domestic work. We've learned some valuable things because of the pandemic. We will continue to have digital meetings, and we will probably see a forever changed office culture where it will be obvious to spend part of their working time at home. But we have also learned that no matter how large we have screens and how good our connection is, the personal meeting face to face cannot be replaced. The app does not take away our joy at getting to travel, making real experiences and changing horizons if only for a little while. I would therefore like us to focus a little more attention on the Swedish tourism industry. It is now going through perhaps the toughest period in modern times, but even before the Corona hit, we saw challenges in this industry. These will not disappear just because the infection ends. Many wise decisions will be required over time from many parties to enable it to regain lost land and then grow. Young people often get their first job in the tourism industry, which is an important enabler of work experience and an industry that over time has steadily gained ground. However, the training of sector-specific skills for the tourism industry has not kept pace with staff supply needs. In recent years the trend has been that the demand for staff has increased while the supply of properly trained staff has decreased. The competence issue is central to the industry's opportunities to grow and for Sweden as a competitor to other destinations. The government should therefore strengthen the supply of skills in the tourism industry. The education system should be developed in close cooperation with the business community, as it is companies that have knowledge of what the future requires. Madam President, I would like We must never forget that every chandelier is created by companies that pay taxes and whose employees pay taxes for our common good. Without companies, we have no welfare!
i-f932c7177354e457-590	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate. These are perhaps the most important issues we have to discuss in this House. It is essential for everything else that we do in the Swedish Parliament that we have enterprising people, entrepreneurs, who create value, growth and prosperity. That is what enables us to have a legal policy, that we can have a health policy and that we can do any of the other things that we here in the Swedish Parliament agree on are important parts of the welfare. This is the basis of everything – it is simply that there is prosperity. And prosperity is created by enterprising people who have their own drive, who dare to invest their own resources and their own time and knowledge. It is created by entrepreneurs who challenge and perhaps spoil something old that no longer works with a new business model or a new product. That is how we gain increased prosperity. That's how we create growth. Madam President, I would like It can sometimes sound here in the speaker's chair as if it is politicians who through various investments, in their budgets or perhaps by removing some rule or in the worst case by introducing a rule – there are such politicians too, who believe that it works – create good conditions for entrepreneurship and the like. It's not like that. Madam President, I would like The best and most effective nutrition policy would of course be if we patted again, me and you, if you turned in the mallet in the office and locked the door and we went home and stopped putting up a lot of obstacles to business. That is exactly what politics does too often. If it weren't because we politicians had set up a lot of rules and a lot of red tape, of course, entrepreneurship – the enterprising people, entrepreneurs, those who dare to challenge, take risks and create something new – would make the economy flourish. We would see a great deal more growth. After all, I am not the kind of person who thinks that we should close the whole Parliament's work on this, Madam President. Of course, rules are sometimes needed, and bureaucracy may be needed because there are other objectives and other things that we want to achieve. For example, we may want food legislation because we want it to be safe to eat in a restaurant. But then there is a need for politicians who see that it must basically be free to enter into business. If, in exceptional cases, we are forced into rules, those rules should be as easy to follow as possible and bureaucracy as efficient and easy as possible. It should cost so little and be as few obstacles for enterprising people as it can. I think we should remind ourselves of this, Madam President: it is not politicians who create wealth in this country, it is entrepreneurial people. It's not politicians' credit when the business environment gets better. Unfortunately, where we are today, the task of politicians is rather to roll back the many aggravating rules, the aggravating bureaucracy and the aggravating high taxes that politicians have originally imposed. Madam President, I would like We also need companies and industry to solve many of the major societal challenges we face. It is not just about getting funding for the justice system or health care, but also about it being entrepreneurial people, entrepreneurs, and innovation that ensures that we can solve, for example, the climate challenges. And don't miss it there either – most and best innovations are created by free people in free enterprise and not by government subsidies. Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has made it clear, even more obvious than it was already, that entrepreneurs are often in an extremely socially vulnerable situation. The social security that other people in society can take for granted often lacks entrepreneurs. I would say that the policy we have had or have in Sweden basically divides people into A- and B-laws, as entrepreneurs often have much less social security. It's harder to be sick, to name an example. That is one of the things for which we politicians must take responsibility. If we have social security systems, they must provide security for all people, whether you are an entrepreneur or an employee. I am pleased that, thanks to the fact that the Liberals have been the engine of the January cooperation, we have ensured that there is support and measures to protect and save as much business as possible. It has not come to an end, and the Liberals have been very critical of much of the bureaucracy that has surrounded the Corona subsidies. We have been critical of slowness, and we have been critical of the fact that aid has sometimes been too low. However, we are proud to have pushed them to the level at which they have ended up. Madam President, I would like Now we have started to come to a situation where it is obvious that in order to create security even among entrepreneurship people must have a discussion about and a plan for how to open up Sweden. Of course, you cannot shut down Sweden's economic activity indefinitely, Madam President. You can't give artificial breathing for a long time. In line with the vaccinations, the Liberals have demanded that the government present a plan for opening up the country so that entrepreneurship can once again flourish. Madam President, I would like We also need to ensure that it is not just our big cities and metropolitan regions that we discuss when we discuss entrepreneurship. For those who have been outside Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, it is clear that entrepreneurship is perhaps an even more important part of the local economy there. It gives people the freedom to shape their own lives and makes you have growth rather than the opposite. I and the Liberals believe that our authorities around the country need a promotion mission to ensure increased entrepreneurship, make it easier and so on. We need some kind of service guarantee, i.e. that the mills of bureaucracy should grind faster and that one should be guaranteed that permits will come into place faster, for example. It needs to be easier to run businesses throughout the country. Madam President, I would like In this debate there has been a discussion about cooperative enterprises, that is, the cooperative model of entrepreneurship. As a liberal, I am quite happy about that, because it is a form of enterprise that has liberal roots. At first, the labour movement in Sweden and the world opposed the cooperative corporate form. We in the Liberals have a reservation which I support, namely reservation 13. It is precisely about simplifying co-operative entrepreneurship. It is not that we have decided on a particular form of company and think that all companies should be run in that form; on the contrary, we think it should be easy to run companies regardless of the type of company you choose. But the cooperative form of enterprise and social enterprise is a form of enterprise that can play a role in a free market that other forms of enterprise do not fulfil. It is clear that every form of company has its advantages and disadvantages, Madam President, and that we need to make it easier for all kinds of companies – not just for some. On this point, then, we have reservation 13, where we propose various measures to make it easier. Now, Madam President, the Left Party – which has spoken warmly in favour of cooperative entrepreneurship – can choose: does it want to vote for the Liberals' reservation, which wants to simplify for cooperative entrepreneurship? Or do you want to show your cards and reveal that it is not really about simplifying for entrepreneurship but about directing the economy into a particular form of company? You can choose between Lenin and liberals, so to speak. There are many reasons to believe that the Left Party will not vote for the Liberals' reservation. For example, it has not been the driving force to make employee options easier, which is also a way for employees to be part-owners of companies. Nor has it been pushed to reduce the taxation of shares and funds in ISK and thus increase ownership in the broad public stocks. But at least you have a chance! With those words, I apologise for exceeding my registered speaking time. I would also like to say that, of course, I support all our reservations.
i-f932c7177354e457-609	Madam President, I would like I have requested ten minutes' speaking time and will try to stick to it. Today, therefore, we are debating the NU20 Nutrition Policy report, which is based on the motions in this area that Members have written during the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. Madam President, I would like I would like to start in the challenging situation Sweden and the world is in. At last year's debate on economic policy, I don't think either of us knew where we were going to be now. What we could all see, however, was that the tourism industry and the restaurant business were having a tough time. Yet the Swedish Democrats chose to impose a penalty on the tourism industry in their budget motion by raising restaurant VAT by 14 billion. I am glad that no one else in this House did. It has been a tough and difficult time during the pandemic – for many individuals, for many companies, for pupils and the elderly, as well as for those who work with society's most important services. Even what we have taken for granted that we should always be able to do – go to football, see a ski competition, cut our hair at a hairdresser, eat with friends at the restaurant, work out indoors or even just go shopping – has looked different. But the crisis has also shown how Sweden has together set up: individual people, public organisations, companies and not least everyone who works in healthcare. We in this House have taken a decision after a decision on an extra amending budget, and we would never have been able to do that if Minister Andersson had not saved in the barns before. We are now up to SEK 400 billion that goes to manage the welfare, manage the jobs and manage the companies. That, Madam President, has never happened before. Although it's not over yet, I have to say that I feel a little faith in the future. The spring sun looks forward, even if you can't see it in Stockholm right now, and we all have loved ones who have received their first or second dose of vaccine. I've had to hug my mother. Madam President, I would like I am pleased to see so many motions in this report, but I would also like to say that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs have had the privilege of dealing with most of them during previous national meetings. However, I would like to highlight some of the areas in which Members have exercised themselves. For example, it is about promoting test beds, which is one of the government's focus areas in the new industrialization strategy together with Knowledgelift Industry, Sustainable Production and Industry 4.0. As an example, Vinnova was commissioned in 2017 to organise a coordination function for test beds, and in the new research and innovation bill, a focus on test beds continues until 2024. It is also about start-ups and innovation systems. Sweden is ranked as one of the world's most innovative countries, and we must continue to be so. Vinnova is now, for example, adding 50 million to innovative start-ups to further develop scalable solutions that contribute to sustainable growth in a global market. One of these companies is Hydroc Energy Storage AB, which works with a new technology to save heat from summer to winter in the bedrock. Another is Lyllos Entertainment AB, which is a streaming service that, with machine learning, adapts films for the hearing and visually impaired. Another is Womni AB, a digital platform where women on their way into or into menopause conduct a self-assessment test that provides an individualised treatment plan and contact with specialists regardless of where they live in Sweden. As Members before me have talked about, it is also about the conditions for cooperation, about women's entrepreneurship and about access to market-supplementary capital. It is about the collaborative economy – and about the tourism industry. In Åre the last rides were taken on Sunday, when the lifts were closed. I have to say that I lift my hat to Sweden's magical ski resorts, which have shown that it was possible to keep open in a safe way. This was done by developing new digital services and by having many hosts that helped visitors to do the right thing. That hemestra and svemestra increased in popularity already last summer. Many are the Swedish pearls that have seen an increase in domestic tourism. The Government, together with the Center Party and Liberals, invested more resources in Visit Sweden with the mission to also promote Sweden for the Swedes. The Swedish Agency for Growth has also received resources to invest in the recovery that the tourism industry needs. The government is preparing a tourism strategy. The report also deals with important business promotion measures. The goal of enterprise policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. And here, Madam President, for example, the government has given assignments to the Swedish Agency for Growth, Rise, i.e. Research Institutes of Sweden, Digg, i.e. the Swedish Agency for Digital Management, and Vinnova, i.e. the Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems. There are many abbreviations, and sometimes I don't know if it all becomes more understandable if you read out the whole name. However, the mission is to implement actions that create the conditions for business to become more innovative. Here I would like to mention Vinnova's, the Swedish Energy Agency's and Formas' investment in the strategic innovation programmes, which now means that we see, for example, the Infra Awards innovation competition on how Sweden's future transport infrastructure will develop both faster and more sustainable. The collaboration programmes also continue this term of office: Health and life science, the climate change of the business sector, the digital restructuring of the business sector and the provision of skills and lifelong learning. It is important to say that the new climate-smart industry is here, and for me as a social democrat it is no coincidence. We went to elections in 2014 to reindustrialise Sweden with a smart industrial strategy, with an agreement on energy so that the industry got long-term news, with investments in infrastructure such as Norrbotniabanan, with investments in dredging ports and with a good strategy to move goods from rubber wheels to rail and shipping, as well as with a knowledge boost that now includes an additional 153 900 training places. This is important for the provision of skills for companies. It is about housing policy initiatives that have made it possible to build more housing around Sweden than in the past 30 years, the industrial category with the climate category, the Prime Minister's Innovation Council, collaboration programmes and strategic innovation programmes, two research and innovation proposals and the industry's roadmaps. And now it happens: battery production at Northvolt in Skellefteå, fossil-free iron sponge production at LKAB, Södra's investment in the world's first biomethanol plant, Volvo Cars production of electric motors in Skövde, Vissam moves home eyeglass production from Asia to Östersund and comfortable green investments made by Hybrid, H2 Green Steel, Scania and Bombardier. We want to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country, and when we, together with the industry and research, roll up our sleeves, we will achieve that goal. With this, Madam President, despite the many reservations, I would like to say that there is much that we in this House agree on in terms of Swedish entrepreneurship. It would, however, be even better if we were also able to stand for agreements and not to leave the parliamentary talks. Then I think that companies' willingness to invest would increase.
i-f932c7177354e457-627	Madam President, I would like We have had a year with a coronapandemia that has hit Sweden very hard and the rest of the world. People have become ill and died, people have lost their jobs and entrepreneurs in Sweden have seen their life's work perish. A great deal of support has been decided on by the Riksdag in various budget decisions. Some of them have worked quite well. I myself have a background in industry and know that the lay-off aid has generally worked fairly well. For example, AB Volvo has had all its staff, almost 20,000 people, laid off, and then let them return to service. We see other sectors that have been hit considerably harder, where too little has been done, too badly and too late by the government and support parties, not least if we look at the important tourism, trade, culture and sport. I believe that in the future we must ensure that this is properly addressed. Then there are concrete proposals here in Parliament both to develop the so-called conversion aid, i.e. aimed at those entrepreneurs who have lost the most money, so that they can get help forward in the crisis and that you include personnel costs in a developed system, and to set a time guarantee. If an entrepreneur has a complete application, payment must be guaranteed within four weeks. The time guarantee should be combined with stricter penalties to tackle the problems that have arisen in the back water of the aid. Now it's almost time for a good time. The question then is: Can the Social Democrats consider supporting these proposals by the Moderates for a new and developed conversion aid and a time guarantee and stricter penal provisions?
i-f932c7177354e457-631	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the questions. Lars Helmered is quite right on many points. This is, of course, a situation that we have not had before, even though we might be able to compare a little with the financial crisis, from which we have been able to learn a little. During the financial crisis, we did not have either conversion or turnover aid. We didn't have rent support. We didn't have short-term leave support. We had no support. That is why this crisis has really worked hard to save businesses and jobs. 580 000 short-term leave support jobs are huge. We taxpayers and this House have decided on 400 billion in aid. That is quite right: you have to learn from time to time. Otherwise, of course, these subsidies would have existed during the financial crisis, wouldn't they, Lars Helmered? The Moderates have indeed put forward a committee initiative that we are dealing with. It's due up in four weeks. The problem with the Moderates' proposal was that there was nothing at all about complete actions. It only came a little later. I think it was at the last meeting, after we had discussed this for a very long time. We had been visited by the cheating minister or the cheating police, whatever they would like to call him, Stefan Strömberg who told us that he did not think we should introduce this kind of support, because it could increase crime. But then the Moderates changed and are now talking about complete applications. It is clear that you want it to be quick when the application is complete. Actually, I called the Swedish Growth Agency yesterday. According to them, it is currently four to six weeks before you receive the payment when the application is complete. So we are approaching the time that the Moderates are asking for.
i-f932c7177354e457-636	Madam President, I would like It has been clear to everyone all along that what we want – and there we also have the support of other parties and important business organisations – is to provide a time guarantee. It is not only the Moderates that bring this forward, but also important industry organisations such as Visita, Svensk Handel, Almega and Transport companies. Trade unions, such as the Swedish Engineers, also share the view of the Moderates. Introduce a time guarantee for the complete applications, but also ensure access to the crime that exists. It is a problem that the government has not introduced a special penalty for short-term lay-off aid offences. I hope that we can agree on this in the future. It has taken too long for affected entrepreneurs. Again, then, it is not just the Moderates who say this. Ask the important tourism industry or the trade and their employees! It is confirmed that it has been possible to take months from the loss of much of its turnover and have had to resign staff until they have even been able to apply to the Swedish Agency for Growth or the Swedish Tax Agency. This has even gone so far that the Minister for Enterprise has been notified to the KU and will be examined constitutionally, not for what he has done, but because he has not done enough and in this way may not even have lived up to the provisions of the Budget Act on efficiency and productivity. The important thing now, I think, is that we make sure that we get the support in what I hope is the end of a coronapandemia for Sweden, so that it becomes a lifeline for important entrepreneurs forward and so that we can save restaurants, traders and other important entrepreneurship businesses. This requires the time guarantee for the complete applications, the penalties and the developed conversion aid, which include staff costs.
i-f932c7177354e457-641	Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear that the committee initiative states that money will be paid out after four weeks, regardless of whether the procedure is completed or not, and that it will then be checked. That has changed in the meantime, and we are still discussing it. We have even invited the Ecocrime Agency tomorrow to hear their opinion on the matter. Then we can take up that discussion. However, I share the honourable Member's view that the procedure and payments should be carried out as a matter of urgency. As the Administrative Act says, it should be done quickly. We have to save jobs and businesses. I very much share the honourable Member's view on this point. But then I have a question. There is nothing about this in the report that we are actually going to discuss today. But what is business promotion or what is what I think makes companies invest is long-termism– when they know the long-term rules of the game. Therefore, I can get a little worried when the Moderates leave their own initiated Swedish negotiations or when they leave the gang talks, migration talks or the energy agreement. It does not create a long-term perspective, and it does not benefit companies' willingness to invest when they do not know what the policy wants and when they are unable to stand up for an agreement.
i-f932c7177354e457-643	Madam President, I would like The tourism industry is apparently the part of the business sector that was most affected during the pandemic, as AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg also touched on in her speech. Foreign tourism has almost completely disappeared, and this has not been offset by the increase in domestic tourism, no matter how much we throw ourselves with terms such as "swemster" or "homester". Politics has tried to assist the industry during this trying time, but when you talk to representatives of the industry it becomes clear that they are anything but satisfied with the government's work in this area. Support measures have been delayed. Aid has not been paid. The design of support measures has been complicated, easily misunderstood and so on. If we look further, we can see that this report does indeed contain a number of other proposals which are not directly linked to crisis aid but which would nevertheless involve significant simplifications for the industry concerned, i.e. the tourism industry. Among other things, there are proposals from the Swedish Democrats for the abolition of hotel permits – hotel permits impose an unnecessary administrative burden on small businesses in this area. There are proposals from us to de facto abolish the dance state, just as the Riksdag long ago announced to the government that it would do. On our part, there are views on the requirements for menu design to serve alcohol – it is therefore an additional administrative burden for the industry concerned. We have proposals on staff and cash registers in the hotel and restaurant industry and a number of other concrete measures that should not be seen as crisis support but which could nevertheless facilitate the future recovery of a very hard-pressed part of the industry.
i-f932c7177354e457-648	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the questions. Tobias Andersson is absolutely right. The restaurant and visitor industry is actually one of the most regular industries in existence. They shall relate to the local, regional and national rules. And it can look different when it comes to alcohol permits in different municipalities. It's a tough business. I've been working in it my whole life. And there's a lot of rules. Therefore, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions together with Visita started an industry simplification program called Serverat. From what I've heard, things haven't turned out as well as you'd hoped. Many municipalities have not participated. Then maybe you can't have the effect you want. But I do share the view that there is much to do. Now we are in this Chamber. I'm not the government. I'm a Member of Parliament, just like Tobias Andersson. But the government has promised to come back with the simplification objectives and other things, and the Minister for Economic Affairs has made a regulatory simplification journey that should mean that proposals are returned there. I therefore share the view that there is much to be done to help the tourism industry. But there is one question to which no one has yet been answered. I think that if you raise the restaurant VAT by 14 billion, as the Swedish democrats want to do, you will really spoil the restaurant industry. I think that's going to lower the whole business.
i-f932c7177354e457-652	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Of course, when it comes to the restaurant VAT, there have been different views on how effective the reduction was. If I am not mistaken, there were criticisms of the measure from a socialist point of view, too, at one time, even though it may sound different in this discussion. However, I think that this is an issue that we should look at internally in my party for the autumn budget process. I'll admit it. That discussion will take place. Having said that, however, there is a great deal in the motion report that we are now debating, which I find problematic about the conditions for the Swedish tourism industry. And perhaps the government somewhere is the answer when it comes to that being the case. Although AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg herself seems to share my picture of problems and acknowledge the unnecessary administrative burden on the tourism industry, it is not least Social Democratic decisions that have led us to the situation we have now. The objectives of simplification policy, which AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg refers to as some kind of hope for change in this area, are actually delayed and will probably be implemented only with a year's delay. They would have been found in the autumn budget bill by the government. But they were left out. The pandemic was blamed, despite the fact that it is right now during the pandemic that we need regulatory simplification in order to facilitate the future start-up. In fact, I think it is a rather bad excuse on the part of the government, without blaming Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg personally for it. We could have had a considerably more effective policy of simplification if the government had addressed these issues. Instead, you let it run out into the sand. So far, we have seen nothing from the simplification journey, and the simplification policy objectives shine with their absence. It's the government's fault. How do the Social Democrats respond to this?
i-f932c7177354e457-656	Madam President, I would like I tried to answer the questions in the previous speech, but I can take it again. What the government was already doing last term was starting Serverat, as I said. The authorities did so together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and together with Visita. It was simply about: How are we going to reduce the burden of regulation? It's a regulatory burden in this business. It's very regular. I am not in the government, but one must admit that the government has had quite a lot to do during the pandemic, perhaps especially on the nutritional side. There are many different new proposals and many different new support. These are the types of aid that Sweden has never had, those that did not exist during the financial crisis and those that have simply now been developed together with the industry. What's needed? It's a good thing you've done this. Otherwise, honestly, I don't know what it would look like. This may have taken away some of the work capacity that would otherwise have existed. But I, which is not the government, believe that we will see the simplification objectives in the near future. I hope so, quite simply.
i-f932c7177354e457-660	Madam President, I would like Today, May 5, it is a historic foreshadow of the Social Democrats who have their birthday: Karl Marx. We have had a discussion earlier here about cooperative ownership. Marx was critical of co-operative ownership; he really thought it was a bit presumptuous. That is why we wonder, Madam President, what the Social Democrats think. John Stuart Mill, the Liberal, was a strong advocate of cooperative ownership. Madam President, I would like Around this country, outside the largest cities and outside the most economically-growing regions, there are quite a few viable companies. It is small and medium-sized enterprises that are doing well, but which may not be doing well enough for some venture capitalist or other person to come in as owners and get a very high return. But they are doing well, so good that they can distribute wages, make new investments and keep the places where they live by simply creating prosperity. One way in which these companies could continue to live as viable corporations would have been if it were easier for those who work there, the workers themselves, to take over ownership when there is no other owner who wants to enter. Therefore, on Marx's birthday, I wonder whether the Social Democrats are still leaning against their protagonists and are critical of cooperative ownership. Or have the Liberals and John Stuart Mill been approached and have their own proposals – and if so, what – to simplify precisely for workers' cooperatives to take over viable companies that do not find other alternative owners?
i-f932c7177354e457-665	Madam President and Joar Forssell! I cannot answer if there are any precise proposals made on this now. However, I would like to talk a little bit about the cooperation. Although the Liberals feel a strong foundation in it, I must also say that there is a great deal in the labour movement that has to do with the co-operation. If you listen to the co-operation nowadays, you find out that on the financial programmes in Sweden, whether you are studying at Handels, the economics programme at Stockholm University or somewhere else, you cannot read about the co-operation anywhere. So there is a flaw. I think there is a shortcoming even when we formulate our proposals and our reforms. We do not think of cooperation as a form of enterprise, nor do we really adapt the proposals to it. I am therefore pleased that Joar Forssell is lifting the co-operation. I think it has a very great opportunity as a company form now after the pandemic to attract more people to set up cooperative companies and do things together. And the co-operation is already great as it is today. It's huge, though you don't think it is. The share of member-owned companies and co-operation is huge. I simply thank you for the question.
i-f932c7177354e457-670	Madam President, I would like Then perhaps I dare not hope to be invited to cake outside by the Social Democrats to celebrate Marx's birthday. If you think it is interesting to make it easier for cooperation, you can vote for Liberals' reservation 13, which is precisely about this. It is not about directing the economy to certain types of companies, but about making entrepreneurship easier. This is partly about the viable companies around the country that could be owned cooperatively. Madam President, I would like I have another question for the Social Democrats. In the speech, the Social Democrats talked a lot about different government programmes, different forms of support and different ways in which policies should go in and support individual entrepreneurs or individual industries. We know from the research on how business support works that there are examples that it works. But generally, at an aggregate level, companies that receive support become less efficient but charge higher wages. It does not seem that support in general is a good way to create viable entrepreneurship. On the contrary, there is a risk of getting the type of entrepreneurship that is commonly referred to as grant entrepreneurs. One thing that we often raise is that there is a need for regulatory simplification, so that politics may sometimes do a little less and stop standing in the way of so much for entrepreneurship. An example of this, which we have proposed, is some kind of service guarantee. This means that companies can be guaranteed service and authority decisions within a certain period of time; otherwise they will be able to receive financial compensation. Madam President, I would like My question is whether the Social Democrats have had their own proposals for, for example, a service guarantee or can give examples of their own regulatory simplifications they want to see.
i-f932c7177354e457-676	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I just don't want to let go of the co-operation yet, but I would also like to say that the last parliamentary term was made a kind of strategy in the Ministry of Industry. I don't really know how it landed because I left the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I'll find out, Joar Forssell! The Social Democrats are not the party that eats cake, but we may eat... well, I don't know what we eat. But other things, quite simply. When it comes to Joar Forssell's question of not caring about companies but letting them go, I have to say that I sometimes stand up for bureaucracy. It may be that we want to see a climate change change, and it may be that we want decent conditions for workers. It can be about many things that I think are bureaucratically important. This is usually how rules arise – by simply wanting something and wanting to get something out of it. But then there may also be a lot of unnecessary rules, and they must be removed. Not only can you add, but you also have to see that certain rules have served out. It is clear that the authorities are always working on it. I also think that the municipalities work a lot with this and are very good. They also have more service guarantees – just what Joar Forssell wants – for building permits and for other permits that entrepreneurs are looking for. The municipalities are of course also much closer to the entrepreneur, and there are a lot of rules that are on a municipal basis. I think the municipalities are doing a great job with service guarantees. I would also just like to say that there seems to be a small socialist living in everyone during this time of the pandemic. We hear statements from parties about Telia and what to do, and we see all sorts of things. It seems that in a pandemic it is the Social Democracy we trust.
i-f932c7177354e457-682	Madam President, I would like For the whole world, not least in economic policy, the last year has been like nothing else. It has been characterised by uncertainty. Anyone who has been close to enterprise policy knows that what entrepreneurs are asking of us politicians is predictability, and we have not been able to offer it over the past year. Many entrepreneurs have had sleepless nights because of the situation and because of this uncertainty. However, Madam President, the last year has also been marked by determination – a determination of entrepreneurs who have stuck to their business, made adjustments to adapt and fought. It is also a determination in the political system in which we have worked hard, across the bloc lines and jointly in Parliament, to obtain support that has not existed in the past. At rocket speed, new support has been developed. Authorities have worked extremely hard to shift their activities and to switch up to deliver on what we have developed in political reforms. This has not been in all parts and every day has been to the fill. That, Madam President, is largely due to the fact that we have created and run at the same time. One type of support, short-term lay-off, was largely ready before the pandemic. We'll be happy about that today. This aid was adapted to the circumstances of the industry. The industry was very affected at the beginning of the crisis. However, the longer the crisis went on, other companies, not least in the tourism industry and in close proximity, have been severely affected. For them, there was no ready-made support to take from the shelf, but it had to be created. There have also been more practical difficulties in getting it right and getting it out. Madam President, I would like I think that anyone who tries to paint a one-sided picture of this year must be able to see several things. There are entrepreneurs who have waited unacceptably long for their support. At the same time, the efforts made by the government and our authorities are impressive. Compared with the activity during the financial crisis, there are huge differences in the amount of aid and the capacity to receive aid. The differences are striking. We should – that is an important point – learn from the financial crisis and not do as the bourgeois government did, which liquidated these subsidies far too quickly. We must hold on and hold on to that part too and ensure that the economy really does come into place. Madam President, I would like As we aim ahead, in many ways we yearn back to what we had. But I and the Green Party also think that in this crisis we should be able to long for something that is better. We should not go back to normal in all parts, but we should make a green restart of the Swedish economy. We have two other crises that are also going on. The climate crisis and the natural crisis also need major crisis efforts. And we do well to combine them. It is also very clear in the investments that are being made that we have identified investments and investments where we can combine strengthening of Swedish companies – strengthening their opportunities to create new jobs – not least with regard to the climate crisis. Some are the extended in the ndustrik life. Madam President, I would like Success in different types of policy initiatives can be measured in slightly different ways. But an indicator is when politicians of all colors run with the selfie stick and chase part of the success. The industrial life is one of those. Have not everyone been in Gällivare and sucked for the success that is taking place there now that the Swedish steel industry is aiming to make steel without coal? Quite independently of whether you have been in favour of or against the support that makes this effort possible, you are there now, because now it is a success story. This investment in steel without coal and the green industrial revolution taking place in Norrland would not have happened without the support initiated by the Green Party, which we are now broadening because it is successful – it works. We have both a climate effect and a job effect, and it's fantastic to see. And yes, I invite everyone to share the joy. But it is good for voters to remember who came up with the idea, and it was the Green Party. As we move forward, we will also strengthen the circular economy and the collaborative economy. Here we need to get better. I am convinced that the future of many Swedish companies is that they continue to be active and innovative in those parts where Sweden is good at environmental technology. But we must not be so proud as to allow other countries to run around us. We must continue to have a high pace of innovation. When we work with business support, there are some where I think there are reasons to be self-critical. The study on income from life, which has looked at the economy of men and women throughout life, has found that the support given by the state and the public to entrepreneurship is far from equal. Men get more support, and not least men get more support for things that enable them to become rich themselves. This is serious. The distribution of and access to capital among men and women in Sweden is worrying. There are very large differences between men and women in Sweden in terms of how much capital they have access to. It also means that far too few women have a fuck-off capital that makes them feel safe to leave a life situation that is not good at every moment. It must be a political objective that all women can actually have it, so that they can leave a situation that is bad for them. We have an opportunity in the public systems that support companies to ensure that they benefit men and women in the same way, so that both men and women have the opportunity to start businesses and have the opportunity to build a capital and become rich. We're not there today. We need to change that. Looking forward, I see that it is important that we convey hope for the future and faith in the future. I am convinced that we do it best by hooking arms with Swedish companies. This is what is the Swedish success factor – cooperation between politics and industry and addressing difficult future issues such as the climate issue and the crisis for nature and biodiversity. Then we can do that and promote Swedish companies, create Swedish jobs and create confidence in the future at the same time. It's quite possible. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-f932c7177354e457-699	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservation 1 on the objective of fossil-free electricity production. The energy area is wide. This is demonstrated not least by this report, which covers a total of 170 motions. Energy policy is central not only to energy producers and business consumers. Energy policy is all the way into the laundry room and increasingly in our private garages. We have a long successful history of being at the forefront of energy production in Sweden, right from mountain management in a more industrial form via the start of industrialization and the expansion of water and nuclear power. It is not without effort and creativity that Sweden has gone from being one of Europe's poorest countries to today being one of the EU's most prosperous countries. But this, Madam President, has never been without sacrifice. All energy has its price. Therefore, it is also important to be resource efficient with energy and not waste resources. We know what great natural values we had to pay for when hydroelectric power was being expanded, and we know what large land areas have been used for huge air lines from energy production to consumption. And we have not yet begun the scrapping of old wind turbines. Nor will this happen without the use of resources. The works should preferably produce energy as soon as it blows, otherwise we waste a resource. Madam President, I would like It is not obvious that we will always be successful as a nation. Economic stability and growth constantly require new innovations and solutions to problems. For us Moderates, a strong energy policy rests on some fundamental values. Our energy production should be environmentally and climate friendly. Our electricity should be secure – you should be able to trust that it exists when it is needed. It should be produced in a technology neutral way, and the prices of our electricity should be competitive and favour jobs and development in Sweden, as has always been the case. The goal should be a fossil-free electricity generation that you also want to invest in. Madam President, I would like Therefore, it is now deeply regrettable that the current Minister for Energy Ygeman has been caught up in investigations that will never be completed and decisions taken in the Riksdag that will never be implemented – such as the decision to return to delivery safety targets and how these are to be achieved. These goals are extremely important for jobs and for the development of our companies in Sweden. Furthermore, research must be put in place as soon as possible. Here we are still waiting for the research bill, and time passes. Madam President, I would like It is through research and development that we have come as far as we have in Sweden with regard to environmental and climate objectives. Our companies are on toe and absorb the latest research findings; it benefits us all. It is also deeply regrettable that the government is delaying decisions on nuclear waste disposal in Forsmark, a decision that needs to be taken before the summer. If it is not taken, we risk running out of service in some year, when the stocks of nuclear waste are full. Madam President, I would like We are an innovative country, one of the most innovative in the world. If we from the state provide good guidelines and fast decision-making processes in politics, much happens on the energy side in our companies. It is therefore important that research into and permits for new, modern nuclear power plants should also be put in place. If you are to dare to invest in climate-smart, secure energy production as nuclear energy, the regulations need to be put in place. Madam President, I would like We must better ensure that the different types of energy have similar economic conditions, for the best economy in the energy system. It is our duty to Swedish companies and private consumers. Energy policy is multifaceted. There are old energy sources, such as water and cogeneration, but also new ones, such as solar energy and new nuclear power. If we are to meet the climate challenge, we need them all. Much is happening in the field of energy, and today's truths are not certain tomorrow. That is why it is also important for us from the policy to be on our toes in order not to seriously slow down or hinder development. No energy source that is fossil-free deserves to be treated rigidly – neither we nor the climate can afford that.
i-f932c7177354e457-714	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 11 in the report. Energy policy is increasingly concerned with electricity supply and power issues, especially when industry after industry is now turning to fossil freedom through electrification, including the transport sector. This offers many opportunities for Sweden, where we have historically been good at energy technology and been very far ahead. This also means that assessments of future electricity consumption are now taking off properly. The Energy Agency recently presented its report on the energy system of the future, which estimates that we will have a significant increase in the use of electricity in all scenarios by 2050. These assessments are in line with what the industry itself has been counting on; it has already been said that electricity consumption will increase by at least 60% by 2045. This has recently been further screwed up. Unfortunately, when you want to take this next step, it looks more problematic, for a number of reasons. We see that electricity is produced to a lesser extent when the need exists, which has led us to see, throughout the Red-Green government, a deterioration in the balance of power in the winter. We are becoming more dependent on imports from our neighbouring countries, as a result of the closure of nuclear power and cogeneration in particular. This makes us more dependent in the long term and also indirectly increases our dependence on coal power plants. In addition to this, after the closure of reactors at Ringhals, we have been able to see that we have problems with the stability of the power system even during the summer months, which in the previous year made it profitable to burn with heavy oil in Sweden to cope with our electricity supply. At the same time they had to procure the operation of the Ringhals l nuclear reactor, which was possible during the previous summer but will not be possible this summer. Instead, we will have to rely on the burning of heavy oil at the Karlshamn power plant. Along with this, the northern and southern parts of the country are torn apart pricewise. There have never been such large price differences since Sweden was divided into four price areas, which is also a direct consequence of the planned power generation being shut down in southern Sweden and the capacity of the electricity grids is not sufficient. This summer, Swedish power grids will also limit transmission capacity to and from the central and southern parts of the country. In practice, this means that the margins of the electricity system are further reduced and the market does not have access to the full capacity of the lines. This will again lead to large price differences – electricity prices can be up to twice as high in southern Sweden. The warning signals to politics have been there all along. The latest power balance report from Svenska Kraftnät states: 中 Decommissioning of nuclear power and possible cogeneration lead to an increased risk of power shortages. In addition, the system becomes more difficult to plan as variations in the available power increase with a higher proportion of weather-dependent production, and operational forecasts become more uncertain. Moreover, it is increasingly likely that several countries will have a strained effect at the same time if the weather is cold and the wind conditions are poor over a large geographical area at the same time. The import opportunities for Sweden will then be limited. ..................................................... I think, Madam President, that it is difficult to get around the fact that developments are not progressing in this area, but rather going and continuing to go backwards. If this development is to be broken, a number of horizontal approaches need to be taken in the area of energy policy. Sweden needs to change energy policy targets from renewable energy to fossil freedom. This is necessary in order to achieve a functioning power system, but above all in order to harmonise the work done in the field of environment and climate change. Then one cannot afford to exclude a fossil-free power source, which is also our second largest. Sweden needs a target for security of supply in order to ensure that our power system is characterised by high power quality and good operational safety. Such an objective should be set, which the policy pursued should strive to achieve. This is also something that the Riksdag has already decided, but the government has still not returned to the Riksdag but chooses to put it in a long line. If we are to be at the forefront in the field of energy technology, it is important that we conduct relevant research on all fossil-free energy sources. The Parliament has previously decided that this will also happen, which opens the way for a clearer mandate for nuclear research. This has also led to the Government's updating of the instructions in the Swedish Energy Agency's regulation letter. We can see that only this change and clarification have led to an interest in nuclear research, and an application is now at the Authority's table to build a research reactor in Oskarshamn with a new reactor concept in the long term. The development of nuclear energy is mainly directed towards what is called small modular reactors, abbreviated SMR. Here there are regulatory obstacles, mainly in that they may only be erected in three places in Sweden. In these three locations, it is the state that owns and operates seven out of ten possible replacement reactors. The government has been opposed to replacing these reactors or selling them on. This will be a major obstacle to the development of SMR reactors around the world. These have a great advantage as they are small and can be placed where the need is. But then the legislation in Sweden must be amended to enable the technology development that is taking place. We have a lack of transmission capacity at all levels, which is indeed a critical problem. The lead times remain as long as up to ten to twelve years before you can get new wires in place. These lead times mean that electrification risks not gaining momentum, and they hinder the social development we all want to see. Now the proposal of the online concession inquiry has finally ended up on Parliament's table. This has taken several years and should only be seen as a first step to cut waiting times further. Along with this, we have a need to review electricity grid regulation in order to be able to better reward and open up to innovation with clearer incentives for investments linked to strengthening operational security if we are to ensure reliable electricity supplies at competitive prices in the long term. For too long, the electricity market, which is based solely on the price of energy, has been put out of play because of its political cleavage, which has worked with unilateral subsidies to exclusively weather-dependent forces. We see that the competitiveness of planned power generation, such as hydroelectric power, nuclear power and cogeneration, needs to be strengthened. These are forces that contribute more benefits than just energy supplies and system services that are important for the operation of the entire power system but that are not paid for at all today. A market review is needed to achieve a more cost-effective electricity system that can help ensure a robust and secure power system for both households and industry in the long term. Energy policy must have a system approach to production and transmission, with a focus on cost-effectiveness. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to succeed in electrification, we cannot have a policy that cannot or does not want to ensure that electricity is available during all hours of the year. It is a prerequisite that this is the case. Energy policy cannot continue to be dictated by the ideological blindfolds of various parties.
i-f932c7177354e457-733	Madam President, I would like The Swedish electricity system is in many ways fantastic. We have phased out fossil fuels and are now facing a revolution with dramatically increased use of electricity. In the energy system as a whole, a lot of fossil fuels remain, not least in the transport sector. To phase these out, the Center Party has enforced, for example, a reduction obligation for both roads and flights, where we are now also involved in raising the level of ambition. I would like to take my point of departure precisely in the transport sector. In order to make the transition and phase out fossil fuels completely, there are three things that need to be done, above all. Firstly, fossil subsidies within the EU, amounting to up to EUR 200 billion per year, must simply be phased out. The fact that emissions trading is now reaching record levels is a good start, but more needs to be done. Secondly, biofuel production needs to be multiplied. If we are to cope with the idea of the cars, ships, buses, trains and aircraft that already exist and that will continue to roll out on factory floors for quite some time, we must replace the liquid fuels that today are fossil fuels with renewable substitutes. Thirdly, electrification must be accelerated. It is serious that the government is dragging its feet when it comes to the expansion of charging infrastructure. We know that the biggest obstacle to buying an electric car is the charge. We also know that one in five who bought an electric car stops driving an electric car because it does not charge in or near the home. As far as fossil subsidies are concerned, there are a number of proposals under way in Sweden to deal with what we have left. We have done a good job during the term of office with a green tax shift where we phase out fossil subsidies – including on mining diesel – and replace this with reduced tax on labour and entrepreneurship. As far as biofuels are concerned, we need serious investment both in research and in new production facilities. We have ensured that the Swedish Energy Agency has been given a mandate to look at new instruments. This is something that the Center Party will, of course, give high priority. It is important not only for climate change but also for Sweden as an industrial nation. It is about jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden and about billions that we will not have to invest in other countries to get fossil fuels here. In addition, we get jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country, not least in rural areas, where we also have the raw materials. Besides, we're reducing vulnerability. As the President, who is on the Foreign Affairs Committee, knows himself, Russia is our greatest security policy threat. The fact that we are now dependent on Russian oil to refuel Swedish Japlan is quite unreasonable. We know that the Swedish Air Force can run on biofuels, and of course it should do so. As far as electrification is concerned, there are three important tracks that I would like to highlight: the electrification of the fleet itself, the electrification of the industry and the safeguarding of the supply of electricity, power and capacity. To begin with the charging poles and the availability of electricity to the vehicle fleet, the Center Party has ensured that the government allocates money to cover up white spots around the country. This is good for more people to be able to get the charge when they're travelling. We have also made sure that there is a green deduction which, like the root or square, means that you get a deduction directly on the invoice when you set up a charging post at home. Unfortunately, however, there are also a number of decisions where the government has not delivered. Already in 2016, the Swedish Energy Agency sent a request to the Government that the lighting network should be allowed to be used to set up charging points. It was about lamp posts that become charging poles. This is already possible today, and trials have been carried out. However, the legislation is not in place. Simple changes to the regulation are needed. London has done this – already last year there were 1,700 such charging points, and more are being built. It is simply unacceptable that a bill has also been put on the table of Parliament which we will soon be dealing with where the inquiry proposed these changes, but where these proposals have not been included. It is also about things that need to be done at the level of pure authority. Lantmäteriet still has unclear rules on how charging in communities should take place. This is a regulatory problem that needs to be dealt with. There are 1.1 million homes belonging to the community. This is one of the questions that people come to me with the most: What are we to do in our community? It is unreasonable that there are still no clear rules for this. Finally: An alexander hem around the extension of charging poles would be to do as it has been suggested in Norway, namely that no one should be able to deny you putting up a charging pole if you do so at your own expense. You may pull out the electricity yourself and set up the post, but if you want to do so and make sure that you also pay for it, it should not be denied by a common-law or a board of directors of a housing association. This was perhaps enough about the transport sector. We also see how electrification takes over more and more in the industry. This may be in direct form by increasing the use of electricity, but increasingly it is done indirectly via hydrogen or other gases that can be produced using electricity as input. This is a very welcome development that can also help balance our entire electricity system, and the state must continue to support it. Large technological shifts require substantial investment. That's why the Center Party has pushed to broaden the industrial life. It is also good to reduce the political risk. Here, of course, shorter permit processes are also required. It is quite unreasonable for the state to sit on many of the solutions that you want yourself. It is also important not to get caught in certain techniques. It'll be easy for us to talk about electrolysis all the time when we're talking about hydrogen. But there are other techniques, such as plasma gasification that the Swedish Plagazi has developed and patented. It is a fantastically exciting technology that would also reduce electricity demand. Different scenarios provide different answers. But one thing is certain: Swedish electricity demand is expected to increase. The industry in the north, with up to 1 000 billion in investment, is a clear example of this. The commercial and cost-related reason for doing this in the north is that there is access to a lot of electricity, clean electricity and renewable electricity. This whole business case is based on this very thing. We also need to ensure that the government delivers more of this product, not directly by building itself but by ensuring that research permits come into place. It is quite unreasonable that we now appear to be missing another season of bottom studies, including in the Baltic Sea and on the west coast, because the government cannot take decisions on permits where the authorities have already said so. It is also unreasonable that the Swedish Armed Forces should not deliver on the regulatory letters that the government has given them and that the Center Party has been involved in negotiating. There, the government and the Minister of Defence need to talk much more clearly and seriously with the Swedish Armed Forces to ensure that electricity generation can be put in place. Industrial establishments such as Hybrid have also been affected by the Swedish Armed Forces' stop regulations. We also need to be much clearer when it comes to the Species Protection Directive. Far more birds die because of such things as cats, windows, and not least trains than it does because of wind power. Yet no one is against either the trains or the windows. If we don't stop this, we're going to have bigger problems and we're not going to meet our climate challenge. Finally, Madam President, hydropower is what worries me most right now. The crown jewel of the Swedish energy system is under threat. The risks of taxonomin are a gust of wind when compared. The water authorities have just concluded their negotiations and consultations which show that they are in a very uncertain position. We know that it cannot be summed up in any other way than disaster. The bases are old and standardised and are well above the estimated costs and expected energy losses that have been calculated in the past. That is totally unacceptable. The legislation and political considerations are clear: We will use the opportunities we have to retain Swedish hydropower, large-scale and small-scale. The documentation of the water authorities is exactly at odds with this and cannot be classified as anything other than a big fiasco. We know that we exempt far too little water from measures in Sweden compared to the EU average. That is a fifth, half of what the neighbouring countries do, and only a tenth of what they do in Germany. The fact that Swedish authorities are still ignoring the possibility of granting exemptions is completely unreasonable. Now the government needs to act. The Center Party is pressing for and will act, both in Parliament and in talks, to ensure that the legislation that we clubs in this House and on which we agree in the Energy Agreement is also implemented. I therefore support our reservation No 29. But it won't end there. We will act further. Finally, Madam President, there are many possibilities in our energy system. We can lead the development and change in the green transition. This requires that the government dares to take up the conflicts of interests that exist and not just passively look at, because a non-decision is also a decision. To refrain from making decisions and prolonging the process is literally fatal, and it is a bad decision. We now need action and concrete visions. The Center Party has done so, and we will act exactly as we have done in the past.
i-f932c7177354e457-763	Madam President, I would like I thank Rickard Nordin for his speech. Rickard Nordin is just like me for the renewable, both sun and wind. That's good. There's more coming, and we need more. But we're having big balance problems in the system. I would like to ask Rickard Nordin how he thinks that the massive effort on energy sources in southern Sweden alone can be balanced. We have small-scale hydropower. I heard that now that Rickard Nordin is also promoting. We think it is extremely important, and it can certainly be modernised and more effective. But we do not have large-scale hydropower in southern Sweden. If we do not get more nuclear power in place, I do not know how to balance up the large wind forces that are coming. It would enable us, as Rickard Nordin says, to release what is most important now: fossil fuels in our industry and in our transport. I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at the transports. If our cars and trucks were to be driven with electricity instead of diesel and petrol, it would be about two thirds of the electricity that we are actually consuming today in Sweden. There are huge amounts, and they will need just-in-time, because it's not like I can wait to get to work. Or maybe I can now that digital technology has become more developed. Then I might be able to work tomorrow, but I need the power when I need it. How does Rickard Nordin think that we should balance up the investment in green energy in a good way?
i-f932c7177354e457-768	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to correct Lotta Olsson, who says that these efforts are only taking place in southern Sweden. It's the other way around. It is mainly in northern Sweden that we see a huge expansion of wind power. We are talking about half a nuclear reactor a year in expansion in recent years and the next. That's amazing! It is absolutely incredible how much you actually build, and you do it on market terms. Together we have been with and extended the electricity certification system, the same system that we are now closing. Nevertheless, we see that the expansion is increasing. It is not just a solution that needs to be found. The Moderates are happy to talk about nuclear power. But there is, of course, no such thing that is profitable with market conditions, the same terms that we agree it should be. What is needed is network expansion throughout Sweden and to ensure that we use hydropower when it is really needed. Then we need to be able to have more power in hydropower at certain times. It is therefore very important that we now aim to solve the problems created by water authorities. I hope the Moderates are with us on this issue. It is also about making things more efficient. In households, you can streamline 25% by just replacing things regularly when they are to be replaced, such as refrigerators, and isolating walls and other things when you are going to do things. It's supposed to be flexibility. You don't have to use exactly all the electricity at the same time. It would be really stupid if Lotta Olsson would plug in her electric car and charge it at 5 p.m. when she comes home from work, even though it has 78 percent battery left. It's supposed to be charged at night. The car stands still a very large part of the time, and then you can charge it. Surveys from the Norwegian Energy Agency, for example, show that you do not need to expand your network at all, and then we do not have the same problem at all. We export a lot of electricity today. We can use that electricity when we have a surplus, because the battery does not run out. It is very easy to believe that it works just as with traditional cars. The electric car should charge for a little while every day rather than run out of battery and ride at night. My question to Lotta Olsson is: how will the nuclear power that she wants be built?
i-f932c7177354e457-775	Madam President, I would like There were no factual errors at all. Northern Sweden has hydropower, and there you can balance up the strong expansion of wind power. But my question to you was how to do it in Central Sweden, because nuclear power in southern Sweden has decreased in production. We already have problems in Mälardalen, Stockholm and Skåne. It will not help with wind power, because it is a balancing system that is needed. Net expansion does not fully help. It helps to some extent. But to be able to get lots of energy from the north will not last when you need it for your own industry. Germany has converted to a lot of wind power. It has been backed up by the German equivalent of the National Audit Office because their electricity is 43 per cent more expensive than the EU average. It is damaging Germany's economy. I can't see how Swedish jobs can develop. We live on an energy-heavy industry and use per capita twice as much electricity for jobs and development in Sweden compared to Germany. Everything goes together, Rickard Nordin. It's not just taking a little sugar out of the bowl, you have to make it stick together. Today, housing is quite good at energy efficiency, and we have lightbulbs. There is not the great potential, excuse me, and perhaps not in private cars, but the potential lies in the large and heavy transports and our large heavy industry. Unfortunately, the batteries don't have that effect yet. No one would be happier than me if Rickard Nordin's vision kept up, but I don't see it. We do not have such battery potential today that we can save so much and drive our industry on battery power.
i-f932c7177354e457-782	Madam President, I would like Excuse me, but now Lotta Olsson is actually on a bicycle. Yes, there are problems in southern Sweden, but it is mainly about lack of capacity. Lotta Olsson's new nuclear power will not help if she does not put it somewhere in here on Helgeandsholmen or on Gärdet in Stockholm. The problem is that you do not get the electricity that is actually available to the cities, to Skåne or to Mälardalen. It does not help to build new nuclear power. In addition, new nuclear power is so expensive that the problem of higher electricity costs would be many times greater with nuclear power. I think it is time to start reading about what is actually being built and what the costs really are. New wind turbines are being built for about 30 cents. Looking at the nuclear power plants being built in Western Europe – in Finland, in the UK and in France – you can see that it will be many times more expensive, at best three to four times more expensive. That if anything will overturn Swedish competitiveness. Southern Sweden has a deficit in production, generally and all the time. Then it is amazing if we in some parts, when there is a lot of wind or when the sun shines a lot, can compensate for it and have a little less deficit than we would otherwise have. Then hydroelectric plants would have to go less than otherwise, no more. The hydroelectric power won't go away. Rather, we need to save the small-scale hydropower that actually exists in southern Sweden. The hour when the capacity was highest and it was most used when Swedish grid forecasted for this winter, small hydro power accounted for 17 percent of the capacity in electricity area 4. It's not small potatoes. It's really important supplements. If we can also balance up with more wind – it blows the most in winter – it's fantastic. It will be much more profitable and cost-effective, of course together with storage, flexibility and efficiency. Twenty-five per cent of household use can be made more efficient and profitable. It's not small potatoes either. It's easy to stare blindly at nuclear power. But it comes at a price.
i-f932c7177354e457-788	Madam President, I would like Energy policy is a very important subject on which we are debating today. I usually fantasize about some areas where broad, long-term agreements would definitely benefit citizens and the country as a whole. One of the areas I dream and fantasize about is energy policy. What the other areas are, I'm not going into today. In this report, the committee is dealing with 168 motions for resolutions on various energy policy issues from the general period of exercise. These are the objectives and orientations of energy policy, nuclear power, energy efficiency, solar energy, wind power, hydropower, energy gases, biofuels and biofuels, plus heating issues, energy research and certain other energy policy issues. As you can hear, the mixture is extensive in terms of what energy policy can be about. A broad agreement on energy policy can probably continue to be a fantasy or a dream. A cross-block energy policy framework agreement was concluded in June 2016 between the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. The agreement stated that Sweden should have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 at the latest, and then achieve negative emissions. Furthermore, these parties agreed that the target of 2040 would be 100 per cent renewable electricity generation – remember that this was the target. According to the agreement, it is a goal and not a deadline for banning nuclear power. Nor does the agreement mean the closure of nuclear power as a result of political decisions. However, it can be noted that KD and M chose to submit the agreement in late autumn 2019 – so far about broad and long-term agreements. I listened to the party leader debate last Sunday and I got caught up in a few comments from the party leaders who run the nuclear line. If you change the word that renewables are going to be fossil-free, investors in new reactors would certainly go on pilgrimage to us and solve the energy challenges that we are facing. That sounds amazing, doesn't it? I have to admit that I am not a college graduate or an engineer of any kind, but to make nuclear power profitable by exchanging a word also becomes for me a too simple solution for me to buy it. But then I came up with an idea. Why don't we sell the word Then they might get the cost of Olkiluoto 3. We can sell it to the French for their Flamanville 3, which they build. In the case of both of these constructions that are ongoing, one cannot have adopted the word afforestation because their costs will land at over SEK 100 billion, i.e. EUR 10 billion. The production cost of electricity from these will at all times rise to over SEK 1 per kilowatt hour, if finished after twelve years. Let's see. Madam President, I would like I am the first to admit that it is not problem-free with volatile energy production types such as wind and sun. However, trying to impose expensive production of nuclear electricity on private consumers or industry is not something that enhances our competitiveness in the current transition and is escalating at a terrible rate. I have had the privilege of meeting some of the most powerful actors in terms of electricity use today and, above all, discussing what challenges they see in the future for us to cope with the transition to fossil-free production. There's a red thread going through a few things. I will give three examples that often come forward. First, it is competitive prices for the electricity to be used. Then it is that the licensing processes must not delay unnecessarily. And the last is the reliability, that laid cards lie. What is agreed shall apply. I must say that it feels good that Swedish industry wants to do its utmost to contribute to climate goals and sustainability. But this requires policy to meet their demands in terms of infrastructure and energy production at competitive prices. Of course, there are challenges with everything that somehow disturbs people. It could be power lines to be pulled over someone's field. It can be the view from a café facing a shiny sea, where it is planned to build lots of ugly wind turbines. It may be a wind farm that disturbs Zlatan's view from the holiday home. It may be the pastures of the Sami village that receive ugly concrete foundations and roads that use land. It may be the cottage owner who gets his view of the untouched nature destroyed. It may be the tourist entrepreneur who is afraid of losing the northern lights tourists. But I'm convinced of one thing. We need to increase green electricity production by at least 60 terawatt hours to 2040. The industry, which is facing huge investments to produce hydrogen for their conversion, says that it is probably a requirement that electricity can be counted as green in order for them to sell the final product as green and emission-free. Everything that happens in society when it comes to electrification will mean that large amounts of electricity will be needed, which there is no capacity to produce today. Of course, we're going to energy-efficientize every kilowatt hour. Lines that pass tomorrow will be built, preferably yesterday. But to believe that all that can be done without sacrifice will not be right for future generations. We have to realise that responsibility can cost a certain amount of view towards heaven. To bring together solutions to this complex energy challenge and to get away from fossil fuels and achieve climate and environmental goals, we need to look at sacrifices. These sacrifices should be associated with a symbol of responsibility and sustainability when we see these elements in nature. Madam President, I would like Biofuel is important and another piece of the puzzle that we should not forget when we talk about green and renewable. The forest debate in the days reaches heights and derails many times. I could feed you examples of real untruths that emerge in the debate on biofuels and forestry, but I am content to note that biofuels that emerge as by-product in industry or forestry, when the forest is managed with the most possible outcome of timber, are sustainable and emission-free, or at least neutral. Madam President, I would like As usual, I only highlight one reservation. Today it is our motive reservation under decision 5. Of course, we support all our reservations in the report, but I only mention reservation 10. I refer everyone to read the whole reservation, but I will develop my position a little. There are proposals for the future of the electrical energy system which, in the opinion of the Left Party, obviously deserve a rejection. Then there are sports that I could well have supported. But since the Left Party is not behind the Energy Agreement, I choose to develop our view in the reservation. I would remind you in the reservation that the Left Party has extended a helping hand to the government to save those parts of the agreement that have a 100% renewable focus by 2040. I am also developing why we say no to nuclear power. Before closing my speech, Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of colleagues and those who are listening to something that puzzles me. What about the waste left over in our world when the reactor is operated, that is, the radioactive waste? No final waste room has been built for this anywhere in the world. There's one in New Mexico that stores military radioactive waste. Finland is, of course, the most advanced country today to build for final disposal or give permission to do so. Isn't this a little strange when everyone agrees that this is dangerous for at least a hundred thousand years? When a company in the forest industry, for example, uses spray cans, oils, detergents, you name it, there must be a documented agreement with a company that receives the waste arising after use. But for nuclear waste, which must be stored for a hundred thousand years, the world is content with intermediate storage. Is this not a sign that mankind took too lightly on the question of how to take care of their spray cans?
i-f932c7177354e457-806	Madam President, I would like We in the Christian Democrats are behind all our demands, but for time winning, I only call for reservation 12. We live in an exciting time. We face great challenges but also great opportunities. The Christian Democrats pursue a policy of security and security of energy supply, which is an important engine in Sweden's economy and crucial to welfare. Swedish companies and consumers should be able to trust that there is a stable and reliable electricity supply, regardless of where they live or operate in the country. In Sweden there is an energy target of 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040, while at the same time not closing the door to nuclear power. This needs to be clarified because there is obviously enormous scope for interpretation. Sweden needs to clarify its ambitions for how Swedish energy policy should be interpreted. That is why we believe that an updated energy target should be tested, in which we want to see that electricity generation should be 100% fossil-free. In this way, nuclear power can remain in place even after 2040. Sweden also needs to have a designated planning target. I think we are all very confident that Sweden's need for electricity will increase very strongly in the future. It is a consequence of electrification of the vehicle fleet, continued digitalisation and a long-awaited climate shift of the heavy base industry. But for this to happen, political courage is needed to plan and implement it. Madam President, I would like What is happening around us is happening at a rapid pace, and it is important that politics also plays its part and delivers on the basis of the challenges that exist. Right now there are questions about what is actually happening. Take, for example, the question of Sweden having an identified delivery security target. Two years ago, this House made just such an announcement because there is no one today responsible for the long-term availability of electricity in the grid. This means that everyone is acting in the short term. But what happened after the announcement? I've just heard that I have to have a little patience and that it will. Yeah, maybe it does. Great effort would also need to be put into sorting out all the threats that exist to our existing hydropower. Hydropower plays an important role in the Swedish electricity system. It contributes with a lot of electricity, low emissions and a flexibility that is crucial for Sweden to be able to have a functioning and safe electricity system. However, we in the Christian Democrats are concerned that small hydroelectric power is working counterwinds in terms of how the authorities interpret the legislation, and this is an issue that we have raised on several occasions and will continue to monitor as long as necessary. The government should use all available means – regulatory letters, government dialogue, investigative missions – to inculcate what decisions have been made in this House regarding hydropower. The Christian Democrats also have a proposal for a change in the structure of water-related authorities. For example, we think that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management should be closed down and some of the data transferred to the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Madam President, I would like Another delayed product seems to be the one about energy research. When can the industry and the rest of us expect to receive this? The Christian Democrats believe that in the future there must be good conditions for nuclear research, which is central to creating good conditions for the knowledge and skills supply needed for life extensions of reactors and new nuclear energy. We believe that there must be a roadmap for future nuclear energy that includes investment in research and pilot facilities. We welcome the progress made so far and believe that a national roadmap can further stimulate development and contribute to long-term prospects. Madam President, I would like In repeated analyses of the power balance, Swedish power networks have found that the margins in Swedish electricity supply are going down. The latest force balance report reaffirms the negative trend. The forecast for the years that follow is assumed to continue in a destructive direction as planned power disappears. Only last summer, Swedish power grids were forced to take emergency measures to cope with operational safety in southern Sweden. On short notice, agreements were quickly procured to make Ringhals 1, Karlhamnsverket and Rya combined heat and power plants available to improve voltage stability and provide short-circuit power. Serious errors could otherwise have occurred. We Christian Democrats believe that leadership is needed that takes responsibility for ensuring that there is enough electricity in the right place at any given time. That's not exactly what it looks like. When major shortcomings in the supply of electricity are repeatedly pointed out and when concerns have become a part of industry's everyday life, it affects confidence in the future to such an extent that action needs to be taken. If nothing is done today, Madam President, more and more companies will have to reconsider whether Sweden gives them the best conditions. It is of great importance what signals policy sends to investors regarding start-ups in, for example, industry, data and server halls, etc. The Christian Democrats think it is time to take these concerns seriously, because the current capacity shortage is hampering growth. When the Committee on Economic Affairs last spoke to the Swedish Power Network about how to prepare for the coming summer, the answer was that they are just looking at it. This year you do not have Ringhals 1 to use to improve voltage stability. The licensing processes are another area that we are increasingly hearing about and where there are no effective proposals. As you can hear, there are many questions. But what does the government do? Madam President, I would like We have a challenge but also an asset ahead of us, and by that I am referring to the power of electrification. More and more reports show that we need more electricity in the future, not less electricity, if we are to meet the climate challenge. If electrification is to succeed, the energy issue is an incredibly important piece of the puzzle. Here we Christian Democrats want to see a future for hydroelectric power and nuclear power, as well as solar, wind and bioelectric power. Sweden today has an energy mix that we should be proud of, and we will need more of everything. Our common enemy in this should be coal and oil, and the ambition must be for us to push fossils out in a responsible way.
i-f932c7177354e457-823	Madam President, I would like I think Camilla Brodin and I have a lot in common. This applies not least to small-scale hydropower and the commitment that exists to all the exciting things that are happening with digitalisation and electrification. I have a question about something that I do not really understand with the Christian Democrats. Ebba Busch has written the following on Twitter:say no to the steel forests of wind turbines that are forced on the Swedes and that destroy our nature. But Camilla Brodin has written: We want to see an extension over the 30 terawatt hours that fit in the electricity certification system when it comes to wind power. In Sydsvenskan, however, Camilla Brodin writes:.The Christian Democrats are critical of the massive expansion of wind power. Our alternative is nuclear power. ..................................................... I'm curious. What is the Christian Democrats supposed to do? Do you want wind power and expand it, as Camilla Brodin sometimes says, or do you not want it but instead have nuclear power, as Camilla Brodin says on other occasions and as the party leader says? If it is the case that the Christian Democrats want nuclear power, I am curious about how to stop the massive establishment that is already taking place and the licensed projects that correspond to more than half a reactor a year. How can we stop them and build the nuclear power that the Christian Democrats want instead?
i-f932c7177354e457-827	Madam President, I would like I thank Rickard Nordin for the question and the opportunity to clarify this. As I say – and I have my party leader with me – we will need more electricity in the future, not less electricity. We can all agree on that. Then we also need to make sure that we extend the nuclear power available for life. If we are to aim for the system as a whole, we need to stabilise the grid, which wind power does not provide today. As far as the expansion of wind power is concerned, the national plan points out 100 terawatt hours in new production, which we quite rightly think is far too much. We do not believe that this is what will help Sweden to provide stable and reliable electricity in the future. Here it is important to have common sense and ensure that we have reliable electricity production and an electricity system that lasts all hours of the day and every day of the year.
i-f932c7177354e457-829	Madam President, I would like We agree that we should have more electricity. The fact that nuclear power can be extended for life is in the Energy Agreement, so I assume that we also agree on this, even if the Christian Democrats dropped out because of certain wordings, which is unclear. I think Birger Lahti made a wise speech on this point. Stabilising in the network is a matter of course. There are many ways to do that. For example, wind power itself can provide reactive power if required. There's a lot you can do there. I did not get an answer to whether the Christian Democrats will act – and if so how – to stop the processes that are already under way, the licensed projects that exist and the projects that are seeking permission. In fact, if we are to talk about electrification and more electricity, the industrial projects in Norrland– The Hybrid project, Northvolt, SSAB, LKAB – are counting on new renewable power in the form of wind power. You produce only hell when it blows a lot, and then you have it stored when it doesn't blow as much. They expect the cost picture of wind power, not the cost picture of nuclear power. I would like to repeat my question. Will the Christian Democrats act – and if so how – to stop the massive investments that are now actually going on around Sweden? They are made on market terms, unlike nuclear power. What Camilla Brodin is saying is that you don't like this. That is also what Ebba Busch says: Say no to wind power! How will the Christian Democrats do this?
i-f932c7177354e457-832	Madam President, I would like I will try to be even clearer in the answer to Rickard Nordin's question. As far as Norrland is concerned, I believe that Norrland itself comes with all the good initiatives and the electricity generation that will be required. Green production is required. Hydropower, together with wind power, will play a crucial role in how the project will succeed and how it can be rose in port. But then southern Sweden cannot expect to take part in the power produced in Norrland. We will never be able to go in and control municipalities. We think that the municipal veto on wind power should continue to be there. We're definitely not going to come back and put over a wet blanket. But we cannot agree either with the plans that exist for such a massive and really unconditional expansion of wind power. Given what it may cost society to expand the wind power production for which it is planned – hypothetically, because we do not have all the decisions ready – this is not the most cost-effective. The most cost-effective is to extend nuclear energy lifetimes. It's definitely number one. Then we have to ensure that we have reliable electricity production so that southern Sweden can manage its own supply. In addition, we need to develop the conditions for hydropower, so that you can pick out more power. I believe that this will be crucial for Sweden. But then the market must know that Swedish politicians keep what they promise. Here we need to join forces, especially for the conditions of hydropower. Hydropower and nuclear power are the base of Swedish electricity production and will continue to be so. That is the clear answer I am giving Rickard Nordin today.
i-f932c7177354e457-837	Madam President, I would like In the view of the Liberals, the supply of electricity and energy is one of the most fundamental political tasks to be accomplished. It is about basic infrastructure, like roads or anything else that is really needed for society to function. Access to electricity and energy, Madam President, is a catalyst and a prerequisite for people's freedom. If you don't have access to electricity and energy, you can't get the factory to roll and the jobs to come to. Neither can you do your homework or get the life - sustaining machines in the hospital to go. Madam President, I would like To discuss electricity and energy issues is really to discuss people's freedom. Now we are trying to deal with the enormous climate change that people are facing around the world and the consequences they will have for us. Climate change is the greatest threat right now to us humans on this planet. From this perspective, it is even more a question of freedom that we need energy production that not only delivers when we need it and where we need it and which is cost-effective, but which is also sustainable, that stops damaging the climate, that does not emit carbon dioxide and that contributes to climate change. Madam President, I would like We Liberals see energy and electricity supply as absolutely basic infrastructure. We also see that we will need much more electricity than we have today in order to be able to switch, be a positive force and have a positive effect on the climate in the world. It is for these reasons that we so strongly stick to the headline energy policy objectives, which deal with cost efficiency, security of supply and sustainability. Madam President, I would like We have discussed in this debate and in this speaker's chair, for example, the enormous and increasing need for energy that we are already seeing and which will be much greater in the future. In fact, Madam President, it is not very difficult to resolve the climate issue. If we were to switch all our energy and electricity use to climate-smart energy sources, climate-smart fuels and climate-smart electricity, the issue would actually be resolved. But we do not have that electricity production today, and if we look at the plans that have already been decided, we will not be able to change. It's been discussed around Norrland here. It is clear that northern Sweden will need more planned electricity generation. This is obvious when we change and invest in industry. It is also clear that southern Sweden also needs this in the future. It is about everything we do today with energy and electricity from fossil sources, we will do tomorrow with electricity from fossil-free sources, and more so – much more. Madam President, I would like I am among those who are both realistic and try to be technology neutral in energy policy. It is for these reasons – the headline targets and because we want to see the real reality and be technology neutral – that we talk time and again about the conditions for the entire electricity and energy system. You can't have a discussion like this and talk about just one type of energy or another type of energy and put them against each other, but all fossil-free energies have their pros and cons that have to be handled but that also add things to the system as a whole. We Liberals think that you should be paid for system services as you do for the system. It's one way to be technology neutral. We are also opposed to targeted subsidies for individual types of energy. If anyone is watching this debate, Madam President, and is thinking of investing in offshore wind power in order to hope for subsidies, I have a clear message: if you try to allow parks to join for free, you should remember that there is nothing free of charge, but free of charge. We will work to raise the various tariffs so that parks will have to pay that way instead. I think we will have a majority in this House for that. We should of course be in favour of offshore wind power. We are for all fossil-free forms of energy, but we want targeted subsidies for some type of energy. Madam President, I would like When I talk about planned production, I'm sure it's one or two opponents of nuclear power who get a little upset or provoked. It is surely someone who thinks that it is unrealistic to think of more nuclear power in the future, and that will refer to various costs of electricity and energy production and so on. My answer to those who are concerned about nuclear power for these reasons is: let us remove the bureaucratic obstacles that exist, let us remove the political obstacles that exist, let us simplify the processes in order to build new nuclear power and let us treat all fossil-free types of energy in an equal way, without subsidies aimed only at one type of energy and without treating any type of energy rigidly. In the Liberals' motion, which we have discussed in committee and which is now on the table, there are 18 proposals which do not cost much and which are about simplifying nuclear energy without distorting the market and without adding a lot of costs. It is simply a question of simplifying purely bureaucratic nuclear energy. You can read about the proposals in our energy policy exercise. I shall be in favour of our reservation number 42. It is about working to ensure that we in the European Union, for example when a component of a nuclear power plant is approved, could have a common view of this so that we get rid of some bureaucracy. Anyone who listens and wants to dive deep into this will read the exercise. That is an example. If something is approved in one EU country, it can also be considered approved in another EU country. It is a simple and red tape-killing measure that costs nothing, if you are concerned about the costs. It is also technologically neutral. I think the same thing, of course, regardless of the law of technology. It's not weird. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say that in this discussion and debate we can say that if we are to continue to develop as people, as society and as civilisation, if we are to continue to lift and ensure that more people around the world can light the lamp to do homework and that they have a job to go to, a factory that works and is running, we will need more energy. We humans need more energy. We Liberals do not think that any human being anywhere in the world should be restricted in his life or in his freedom because of the availability of energy and electricity. At the end of the day, you still have to choose. Should we restrict people? I don't think so. Should we restrict people's freedom? I don't think so. Or should we have more and green fossil-free energy production? I'm part of that team because I don't think anyone's freedom should be limited by the supply of electricity.
i-f932c7177354e457-861	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd be brief. Have I correctly understood that Joar Forssell and the Liberals do not think that any force should receive state subsidies and support?
i-f932c7177354e457-862	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for that question! I really appreciate it. It's a clarification. The answer is no. That's not correct. Liberals believe that there should be support for power types and for energy and electricity generation, but support should be technology neutral. That's our whole point. We see electricity and energy as a completely basic part of the infrastructure. That is why we also see that there may be a need for support. Let me take an example that I think I and Rickard Nordin have discussed in the past – at least we have been involved in debates together where there has been discussion: State credit guarantees are a form of support. Quite a few years ago, the Liberals made a decision at their annual meeting, which we call a country meeting, that there should be government credit guarantees for large projects. At the Center Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, it has sometimes sounded like our decision would have been specifically about nuclear power, but what we have said is that if there is to be state aid, they should be technologically neutral. Whatever the type of energy involved, support should be available, but there must be criteria. It is clear that different types of energy will have different easy to meet the criteria, but the criteria should not be based on the fact that we like or dislike a particular type of energy, but should be about what they add to the energy system as a whole and what needs are in the energy system. So the somewhat long answer to Rickard Nordin's rather simple question is that there will have to be support for electricity and energy production of various kinds. We are open to this, but support should be technologically neutral and not targeted at a specific type of energy.
i-f932c7177354e457-867	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the clarification! Is Joar Forssell prepared, then, to review the subsidies for nuclear energy that currently exist in the form of limited liability? This is, of course, targeted support specifically for nuclear power. The reasonable thing is that you actually have to bear your own insurance costs in this context, so that in this case you do not give nuclear power the advantage of receiving support that other energy sources do not receive.
i-f932c7177354e457-868	Madam President, I would like Again, I would like to say that I think that the principles should be the same for all types of energy, whether it is about production or what system services you provide. All energy production has costs, and the small costs we think should be internalised in energy production and delivery. But all kinds of energy also add something. That is why you should be paid for what you add, and you should pay for the costs you have caused. For example, when it comes to offshore wind, the cost of bringing electricity from production to where it is used should be borne. This is to be done by all types of energy. It's not weird. Rickard Nordin is asking about insurance costs. Please note that the Center Party is not technology neutral in its view of different types of energy. I just gave an example of that. There are many more. But again, it is about the principles. What principles apply when you assure something, whatever it is about? It could be a nuclear power plant, a car, a house or something else. We have principles on how to allocate those risks. Of course, the risks differ between different types of energy. It's natural. It's nothing weird. They probably differ between different houses and different cars as well. The important thing for us is that the principles behind this are technology neutral. The principle is that everyone should bear their own costs. The principle is to get paid for what you do for the energy system as a whole. But in this case, of course, and in all other cases, there is also the principle that we have a state that is part of the insurance system. That's how it is in all other insurance policies, too. It's nothing weird. It is strange, Madam President, to use rhetoric that seeks to get it into a targeted subsidy when it is a principle that applies to exactly everything that we assure in this country and, as I know, in most other countries.
i-7GKCsCeQ1yne8Y78gFdzCm	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs (NU21) on energy policy. The report deals with 170 demands for exercise from general exercise time. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposals in all parts of the report and reject all reservations. I note that energy policy has taken a great place in the debate over the past year. It is also reflected in the number of exercises. Energy policy affects many people in general, and it seems easy to find yourself in favour of or against a certain kind of force or technology and forgets the whole and the long-term. Madam President, I would like The direction and objectives of energy policy are solid. It shall aim to reconcile security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability. Sweden is now on the threshold of the next generation electrification, which will mean major changes in society. Therefore, the Government is now developing an electrification strategy in close cooperation with representatives from industry, government agencies, environmental organisations and other actors who can contribute to the continued work. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification. A number of issues have now been identified in the ongoing work. I was going to mention some as an answer from exercise management. This involves, among other things, developing a planning framework that takes height for a possible doubling of electricity use to 2045. Roles, responsibilities and coordination need to be developed to ensure that public and business move in the same direction. Measures are to be identified that can halve the lead times for the electricity grids by 2025, so that the roll-out from idea to management is in line with the development of society. Measures should also be identified to enable sectoral coupling between electricity, district heating, hydrogen and other energy carriers so that the energy can flow and be used where it is best suited. There should be a focus on system benefits when designing instruments and regulations. We also need to increase the focus on operational security, power quality, preparedness issues and total defence needs during electrification. And the electricity market needs to be developed in both the short and long term in a cost-effective and secure way. The strategy should be ready by October this year. Madam President, I would like We have heard about nuclear power today in the debate, and we have heard much debate about nuclear power over the past year. It is often the case that you are for or against something or that you want to extend the operation or that you want to give Vattenfall, in this case, ownership directives. This may be in the case of disposals, and it may be in the case of new small reactors to be operated on nuclear waste. I was amused to see how many times nuclear power was mentioned in the report and concluded that it was 278 times. One might think that nuclear power for some parties is a religion. The objectives of energy policy are, therefore, fixed, and it has been said many times in this pulpit. The targets should not be seen as a deadline for banning nuclear power, and they do not mean the closure of nuclear power through political decisions. We have had the parliamentary investigation service look at a number of questions regarding small modular reactors, so-called SMR, because there are several motions on this. How many reactors are needed to replace today's nuclear power plants? How many reactors will be needed in the future on the basis of the Swedish Energy Agency's latest long-term scenario? And where in the electrical system are these reactors to be built? Where do they fit in best? The technology isn't ready yet. The technology is expected to be launched in 2030. But there is uncertainty if the technology is then ready and if it becomes competitive. Today, there are six such facilities in the world. They're in China. They're in Pakistan. They're in India. And they're in Russia. Russia has three. It takes 146 small modular reactors with a size of 55 megawatts to replace today's nuclear power. How many more would you need in the Swedish Energy Agency's long-term scenario? Yeah, we'll have to add another 80 reactors. When it comes to the question of where in Sweden they will be built and placed, we can note that we have large electricity surpluses in northern Sweden while we have deficiencies in southern Sweden. This should mean that all these reactors will be built in the electricity price range 3 and 4, i.e. south of Gävle. In conclusion, there are many questions around these small modular reactors. But it is quite clear that a great many reactors are needed to replace existing nuclear power or to take up the height of an increased electricity demand. Where will they be built? Is it in Täby? Is it in Gothenburg? Is it in Örebro? I do not know, but with this policy, all the municipalities in the electricity price zones 3 and 4 will expect to have nuclear reactors. We do not know much about the price for this for consumers, and it is a technology that is currently being developed in China and Russia. If you add the security policy aspect to this, I think that this sounds like a really bad idea. At the same time, however, I would like to thank the parties that are pushing the issue of more nuclear power, for I am sure what an interesting thing it will be in the election movement when the voters realise that a vote on the political right means that they are in danger of becoming neighbours with a nuclear reactor! Thank you for giving us that question! Madam President, I would like A competitive district heating sector is essential if we are to meet regional capacity challenges. The power and district heating sector is an important part of the electrification strategy. We need to make use of all sustainable energy gases that will eventually play an increasingly important role in the energy mix. The Government intends to return with the Biogas Market Investigation's proposal. The Swedish Energy Agency has recently received a number of interesting assignments. A hydrogen strategy will be developed, proposals will be made for an operational support system for bio-CCS and further needs for instruments to promote increased domestic biofuel production will be explored. Efforts to promote sustainable biofuels for aviation are being extended, and the mandate has been extended and applies to all renewable fuels. Several people in this debate have raised hydropower. It accounts for almost half of Swedish electricity production. For that reason alone, it is extremely important for the Swedish power system. It is now important for the responsible authorities to take the necessary measures to ensure that the testing of modern environmental conditions is carried out as smoothly as possible. The Government intends to give the relevant authorities an overall mandate to carry out a follow-up of the national plan. The development of wind power has been explosive. Wind power is today the clearly cheapest electricity generation that can be expanded quickly and on a large scale. It is important to bear in mind that the production from wind power is at its highest during autumn and winter, when the needs are also greatest. The solar revolution continues. 22 000 new solar power plants were installed last year. It's an incredible development. The sole has eightfold in five years. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, we are therefore in a very good position to switch to a renewable energy system compared with many other countries. We also have plenty of electricity. Last year we net exported 25 terawatt hours, which corresponded to consumption in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania together. V now sees several examples of large investments and establishment from industry in especially northern Sweden. One of the reasons is the availability of renewable electricity at competitive prices. But there are certainly challenges that we can occasionally experience, such as network restrictions, which many have raised today, price differences within the country, which have also been addressed today, and long lead times. Therefore, the government is now developing an electrification strategy. It will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification.
i-f932c7177354e457-895	Madam President, I would like Regardless of what one thinks about the future of nuclear power, one must take the waste issue seriously. Today, Vattenfall has gone out with an UMM, the original market message. Companies must do that to warn the market when you see risks. Today, the communication referred to the risk of the remaining nuclear reactors being decommissioned in May 2024, because the government has not taken a decision on the nuclear waste issue. If the government does not make decisions on the matter this summer, it can have devastating consequences for southern Sweden. All investigations have been made. The base is in place. Both affected municipalities, one of which is S-controlled, are ready. What is it that makes it impossible for the decision to be taken and therefore risks southern Sweden's production and stability?
i-f932c7177354e457-898	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Camilla Brodin for the question. Camilla Brodin and I are on the Enterprise Committee and were at the same meeting where the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Energy explained the situation. I can note, as another Member said in the debate today, that no one has solved the nuclear waste issue so far. That means it's not easy. It's pretty hard. At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, however, I understood that the government is taking this issue very seriously and that it intends to come back with decisions in good time to deal with it. As Camilla Brodin says, these are extremely important issues. You can think what you want about nuclear power, but it accounts for at least 30 per cent of Sweden's electricity production today. It is not possible at all to close nuclear power at such short notice. The issue is important. I have full confidence that responsible ministers will take the necessary initiatives to solve the problems of nuclear waste.
i-f932c7177354e457-903	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it is a bit hopeful that Mr Engström feels such confidence that the two ministers take full responsibility for providing information in good time. Now it is not the case that information has been given in good time. It is quite barely about time, and we have still not received any information. So now we have a situation where the market points out that it can have drastic consequences. What is happening is incredibly serious for Sweden's competitiveness, credibility and growth. Delaying this decision is not only stupid; it is extremely serious for Sweden AB. How long will the Social Democrats allow the Green Party to rule on such an important issue without putting its foot down?
i-f932c7177354e457-906	Madam President, I would like That question should not be put to me, but to the responsible minister. Camilla Brodin and I were at the same meeting. I heard that it is intended to resolve the issue. And when I hear it, I believe it. When this will happen, I don't know. Neither does Camilla Brodin. But the question is urgent, as Camilla Brodin also points out, and will certainly be dealt with in the right order. At the same time, Camilla Brodin must bear in mind that nuclear fuel and nuclear waste are not just any issue. This is about decisions on extremely hazardous waste, which will hopefully be taken in the near future and valid for a hundred thousand years. Again – no other country has made decisions on the nuclear waste issue. But I have full confidence that the government will make the necessary decisions when the time comes.
i-f932c7177354e457-910	Madam President, I would like Patrik Engström said in his speech that the energy policy objectives remain unchanged. Yes, the energy agreement that we concluded in 2016 and that I was part of also stands. Patrik Engström may not have been in the negotiating room, but he supports the government that is still behind it. Despite the fact that the energy agreement remains in place, we see that hydropower does not receive at all the treatment that we agreed on in the energy agreement and in the follow-up proposal. We agreed that hydropower should be protected and that the effect could be increased in existing works. Nevertheless, only 3% of Swedish watercourses have been classified as KMV, with less stringent requirements than the strictest requirements of EU law. The water authorities have now had a consultation, and they say that the costs are expected to slip. There is talk of 8 billion, even though it is only a few of the watercourses to be assessed. In total, we had estimated 10 billion. Large amounts of electricity and power from hydro power are expected to be wasted, and in much greater quantities than the HARO values to which the Center Party was already critical. Standard assessments have been made, even though individual assessments would be made according to the proposal on which we agreed. The local and regional benefits have also not been taken into account, although it is clearly stated in the bill that it should be assessed. All of this is contrary to the proposals of the E nergy Agreement. My question to Patrik Engström, the Social Democrats and therefore the government is: Do you share this picture, and what are you prepared to do?
i-3tsJK4CququV8Ticd2aq9J	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! I share Rickard Nordin's concern. I have received exactly the same signals from small hydropower owners in particular that they perceive the process as worrying. The journey that has started is great, that is to create modern environmental requirements for hydropower. At the same time, however, it is absolutely necessary. I will follow the matter very closely, because we have signed a firm through the agreement. I feel that it is sound and relevant in terms of hydropower. The issue will be followed up by the government, and the relevant authorities will be asked to describe how the process has gone. We cannot end up in a situation where we in the system are missing out on hydropower and also at levels such as both Rickard Nordin and I have received signals. We must, of course, hope that this will be corrected, but if it does not, I am prepared to take an initiative to get us back on track. It was not the intention of either the legislation or the agreement that a great deal of hydroelectric energy would be wasted unnecessarily.
i-f932c7177354e457-918	Madam President, I would like Patrik Engström shares the concern. However, it is not enough to share the concerns or follow the matter. This is happening right here and now. The consultation was concluded on 30 April. In November, the new processes will begin. It is therefore not enough just to follow the question. Patrik Engström said that the authorities will be given assignments. That's interesting. These are not assignments that I have heard of, so I would have liked to hear what assignments he refers to that should be given to the authorities and when it should happen. It would be nice to get some more detailed answers to what Patrik Engström mentioned.
i-f932c7177354e457-920	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, when these missions for the follow-up of modern environmental requirements come, I cannot respond here and now. But I have read that the assignments will be given. At the same time, I share Rickard Nordin's frustration and concern that we should end up in a situation where we do not land in what the legislation says. Then we must act. I have an obligation to act, and I am absolutely convinced that Rickard Nordin will act. I am also absolutely convinced that the government will also act. This should at least lead to follow-up so that we know where it is. I get signals at the same time that at Dalälven, where I live and work, the process has so far gone really well.
i-f932c7177354e457-922	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Mr Engström described a concern that small nuclear power stations would be opened up a little here and there. It even sounded like it would happen in all municipalities in southern Sweden, if I and my parliamentary colleagues to the right of the Social Democrats were to get what we wanted. Madam President, I would like That's kind of funny. I believe that the Social Democrats do not understand the extent of the problem we have and will have in Sweden in the future with our electricity and energy supply. I do not believe that the Social Democrats have understood our policy either. Yes, the Liberals have proposals to change the law so that nuclear power plants can be built in more places than they are today. But we are technologically neutral and do not favour a particular type of energy. We do not have any proposals to build nuclear power stations in each municipality, as Mr Engström indicated, but we are neutral. Today, municipalities must first endorse an application if anyone wants to establish a nuclear installation. And, Madam President, many citizens of the country are concerned about the government's policy on the municipal veto against wind power. Many municipal citizens around the country feel that they are in danger of being run over by a government made up of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. We in the Liberals protect the veto against wind power, and we also think it is reasonable for municipalities to be on the track if nuclear power is established. We are neutral about these two types of energy. Madam President, I would like I wonder whether the Social Democrats are also technologically neutral on this issue.
i-f932c7177354e457-926	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the question! Let me start with nuclear power. It is produced in a number of places in Sweden today. Legislation in this area is not very new. It's the environmental code that controls this. Today we see no need to change the legislation in order for nuclear installations to take place in, for example, Täby, Örebro or Gothenburg. No one has yet called for the construction of nuclear power stations. This is what you have to do when that time comes. Joar Forssell mentioned technology neutrality. I share the view that we should politically try to remain technologically neutral and allow the market to build what the market thinks is appropriate from the point of view of cost, supply security and the politically possible. This position has always been held by the Social Democrats. We do not want to end up in a discussion or situation where we do not realise that the energy system needs to stand on several legs. Today, it was as follows: K's nuclear power delivered 30 percent, hydro power delivered 30 percent and wind power delivered 30 percent. The power heat and the rest delivered the remaining percentage points. This means that the energy system is robust, and there is redundancy in the system if you stand on several legs. This can be done if you are technologically neutral, which is a strength. We have done so far, and we will continue to do so.
i-f932c7177354e457-929	Madam President, I would like I don't know what to say. It is clear that the Social Democrats do not understand the extent and extent of the problems that Sweden faces with security of supply and to make the whole system work. The Social Democrats are here talking about what energy production looks like today. That is not what the question was about. It was about how we will cope with the climate and electrification and have delivery reliability, cost efficiency and sustainability in the future as well. Our energy needs are increasing tremendously and will increase even more than what Patrik Engström mentioned in his main speech. It is not very relevant to the discussion what production looked like today. This is about having overproduction to cope with different situations that may arise and to cope with crises and electrification. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats are talking about technology neutrality. Then change the law so that we can build nuclear power stations in more places! But keep the legislation that requires municipalities to be involved in both nuclear power and wind power! It would have been technology neutral. And it is not the case that the Social Democrats are proposing new legislation that only wind power can be built in a few places in Sweden, as is the case with nuclear power. It would also have been technology neutral. But, Madam President, the Social Democrats do not choose any of the technology-neutral tracks. The Social Democrats choose to have a separate regulation of nuclear power which differs from the regulation of wind power and makes it more difficult and expensive to establish nuclear power than it could have been, because in practice there is a situation in which we do not have competition. Why do the Social Democrats not want to be technology neutral and treat different types of energy in an equal way?
i-f932c7177354e457-933	Madam President, I would like I note that we are quite apart from each other in our view of energy policy. The success factors we have seen so far are renewable electricity and competitive prices. That is what the market is asking for. Had the market requested otherwise, the market would have built other electricity generation, such as nuclear power. But you don't – unfortunately for you, Joar Forssell. I think it is a good thing that new nuclear power is not being built, because it tends to be extremely expensive. As I have discussed in this House, we have not yet resolved the waste issues either. Joar Forssell must realise that the success story in Sweden is about renewable energy at competitive prices. Shall we get away from this? Who will pay for the technology that Joar Forssell indirectly asks for when he says It is nuclear power – expensive nuclear power. Do we want that in Sweden? In that case, it will be well built in Sweden. But I don't want to pay more on my electricity bill. Perhaps that's what Joar Forssell wants – just because it's nuclear. But I do not think that the large industries established in the north want higher electricity prices than necessary. We think that this is perfectly reasonable from the energy policy we have today. We're delivering in that area.
i-f932c7177354e457-935	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Member Patrik Engström highlights what is called small modular reactors and what you feel about them. This is a highly doubtful approach to the role they will be able to play, perhaps mainly in the future Swedish energy policy. Wrong assumptions are made about size and what role they should play. It is clear that we do not understand that production must exist when there is demand if we are to have a functioning electricity system. From a system perspective, we can see in the report after report that it will be more expensive with 100 percent renewable compared to focusing on fossil freedom. It is said that it is not enough just to change words from We can see, of course, when it comes to energy research that there was quite a direct interest in nuclear research. There is an application to build a research reactor in Oskarshamn in the long term. There are also regulatory obstacles that make it more difficult. The Social Democrats persist in the fact that nuclear power is unprofitable, and yet they dare not remove the regulatory barriers that exist, for example as regards how many reactors there may be in Sweden, where they should be located and so on. What I am asking then, Madam President, is: if the Social Democrats are so sure that it is so unprofitable and nobody wants to do so, why do they feel obliged to ban the establishment of new reactors in Sweden in practice?
i-f932c7177354e457-938	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for the question. First of all: Nuclear power tends for the Swedish democrats to get caught up in a religion. Nuclear power will solve all the energy problems that exist in Sweden, as I understand. But one somehow forgets to include the issue of competitive prices. It is true that nuclear power has its merits. It has served Sweden well for many years and will do so for many more years. However, if nuclear power is two, three or four times as expensive, I do not think that so many people are interested in building new nuclear power and buying nuclear power. Of course, I could be wrong. I'm not saying anything about that. There may be companies or private individuals who want higher electricity prices. But I don't know that there would be so many, Mattias Bäckström Johansson. Why do you continue to drive the nuclear track when the market prioritises other things and renewable energy is considerably cheaper? And who will ultimately pay? Should we pay through the tax bill or through the electricity bill? I think this is a relevant question, to which Mattias Bäckström Johansson now has the opportunity to answer.
i-f932c7177354e457-943	Madam President, I would like What I can tell Mr Engström is that nuclear power is growing globally. Under the control of the Red Green Government, nuclear power has grown globally every single year. In Sweden it does not, but globally it does. One might wonder how that could be. In the speech, the Social Democrats also welcomed the fact that, among other things, the Swedish Democrats will push the nuclear issue in the elections. I can welcome it in the same way, as a majority of the voters of the Social Democrats have a completely different attitude to nuclear energy than the Social Democrats here in the Swedish Parliament. When it comes to the desire to limit and make it more difficult to build new reactors or take over reactors, it is a matter of part of the environmental code. Another part is the one that concerns permit issues regarding wind power. There's a municipal veto. Here it is interesting that the Social Democrats take a completely different approach – instead they want to make it more difficult for those municipalities that might want to use the veto and do not want any wind power establishment in the municipality. Instead, they want to open up to be able to run over municipalities and make it easier for the establishment. This can be seen as a promise. If so, I can welcome the fact that the Social Democrats are sending such a clear signal to those living in rural areas that their voice may not play such a role in the individual municipality, because it will be national interests that will push for this. In that case, Madam President, I wonder why the Social Democrats just want to be able to run over rural municipalities that do not want wind power in their municipality and do not have the reverse scenario of nuclear power.
i-f932c7177354e457-947	Madam President, I would like With regard to the municipal veto and the investigation to which I suspect Mattias Bäckström Johansson refers, he knows that there is no majority to remove the veto in the Swedish parliament. I don't see it coming. On the other hand, the process may be repeated. It is not reasonable that at a time when a company may have invested 10, 20 or 30 million in investigating whether it is a good place and perhaps started with infrastructure, a municipal veto is triggered. The municipalities must, of course, speak out. They have a plan monopoly. When in the process this is to happen, we are ready to discuss. However, removing the veto is out of the question at all. When it comes to nuclear power and elections, I really look forward to an election movement where we can go – maybe Mattias Bäckström Johansson and I – together to Örebro and discuss whether we should have nuclear reactors. Maybe we can call it block reactors. These are small, pretty things that have been launched in Örebro. Perhaps we can also discuss with the citizens and voters whether they think it is a good idea if we put a wind turbine here or a nuclear reactor here. I am absolutely convinced – but I can of course be wrong – that we will win that discussion. I don't think anyone wants to live next door to a nuclear reactor.
i-f932c7177354e457-951	Madam President, I would like It's an exciting time in which we live. The energy transition is now faster than ever. Yet we are only at the beginning and have a long way to go. A large majority of the world's energy production is still fossil. Oil is still pumped out of the ground, coal is mined and fossil gas is fired for heat and electricity. This is the greatest threat to human welfare that we face. This means that the world is in dire need of green policy. But let us also look at the change that is actually taking place here and now. Although it does not go fast enough, it is difficult not to be inspired to see what has happened in recent years. Last year, 90 percent of all new electricity generation worldwide was renewable. International bodies are saying that things are going to go up. In most markets, solar energy is now the cheapest source of energy. This has happened after a completely spectacular price trend, where the price has fallen by 90 percent. Even wind power has decreased drastically in prices and is now, together with solar energy, the cheapest energy source in many markets. In Europe we have a fantastic development in the price of carbon dioxide. After the Green Party in government took the initiative to reform the common emissions trading system, the price has increased tenfold. This is now leading to a rapid phase-out of coal in Europe. In fact, the price picture now makes it cheaper to build renewable electricity than to continue existing fossil plants. It is a green landslide victory that has a global impact on emissions. The development of renewables is in stark contrast with the development of nuclear power. While renewables are becoming cheaper and cheaper, nuclear energy is becoming more expensive and expensive. We can also see that projects around the world take a very long time. Nuclear power has played its part. It's too expensive, and it takes too long to build. It has no chance of being part of the transition that is already under way. A fully renewable energy system comes with a number of advantages. It is clean air, minimal climate damage, a democratisation of the electricity market, a contribution to a stronger total defence and a reduction in dependence on imports of fossil uranium that very often come from unstable and undemocratic countries. But it's not without a challenge that we make that transition. With more sun and wind in the system, we will need supporting technologies to regulate the market. Here, energy storage is a central part. With batteries, hydrogen and other storage functions, peaks and valleys in the energy system can be compensated. Happily, we are now seeing the same price trend in energy stocks as we can see for sun and wind. Batteries are drastically reduced in price. Renewable hydrogen is estimated to be cheaper than fossil hydrogen within just a few years. I am incredibly happy that the government is on the ball on these issues with strategies for electrification and expansion of renewable hydrogen production. We Greens want to raise the ambitions of these issues further. We also need to focus on the development of renewables where it is really needed. Here I am very proud of the move my party made the other day. We think there should be a planning target of 90 terawatt hours of sea wind. Sea wind power plants can be built along the coast of southern Sweden and thus contribute where it is needed at its best. Madam President, I would like Let me round off by saying a few words about the winter electricity debate. It has been a long time since we had such an unserious and ignorant debate on such an important subject. Accident ravens have tried to put a picture of Sweden suffering from a shortage of electricity and being dependent on dirty imports. Nothing could be more wrong. In recent years, Sweden has, contrary to what is claimed in the debate, made a huge journey for renewables. The large amounts of wind power that have been introduced into the system have led to a sharp increase in Sweden's electricity surplus. This means, for example, that we can export electricity to Poland. Every day, Swedish electricity helps to push out fulcrums in our neighbouring countries and reduce emissions. Here I want to be clear. Breaking out a few hours' production of net imports is unserious and historyless. It is important to remember that in previous governments' holdings of power we have been dependent on imports in terms of both individual hours and if you look at them on a full-year basis. We have turned a net deficit into a gigantic net surplus. Madam President, I would like With wind, sun, batteries and hydrogen we now take Sweden into the future. With those technologies, we have the possibility of 100% renewable electricity production. Of course, it's a chance we can't miss. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-f932c7177354e457-966	Madam President, I would like I am going to repeat a little bit of the question I put to the Member of the Social Democrats. Regardless of what you think about nuclear power, you still have to take the waste issue seriously. Today, Vattenfall has gone out with an UMM, the original market message, to the market. It is something companies must do to warn the market when you see that risks exist. Today, this communication was intended to warn the market that the remaining nuclear reactors are at risk of being decommissioned from May 2024 due to the government's failure to take a decision on the nuclear waste issue. If the government does not make decisions during the summer, there will be consequences that would be devastating for southern Sweden. All investigations have been made. The base is in place. Both the municipalities concerned are ready. Does the Green Party not realize the consequences of a late decision for Sweden as a whole?
i-f932c7177354e457-969	Madam President, I would like We must take the issue of detention seriously. I really can't agree with any more-- of course it is. I think that those who advocate nuclear power should take it very seriously much more than they often do. It is, of course, important that we proceed with a solution to the issue of final storage, but it is a decision that will have consequences a hundred thousand years ahead. It should and cannot be stressed through. It would be irresponsible and at risk of becoming dangerous. So far, the Land and Environment Court has not given definitive green light. There are still ambiguities that need to be resolved. The most important thing is that we get a solution so that the intermediate layer can continue to be used. Therefore, the responsible minister has advised that the solution of separate permit processes is being considered in order to resolve this successfully. This has been explained by the Government in this House, and so we can count on it to be the preparation that is taking place at the Government Office.
i-f932c7177354e457-972	Madam President, I would like With the information that Karolina Skog is giving me here today, something incredibly serious is happening. With regard to Sweden's competitiveness, credibility and growth, it is not only foolish to delay such a decision, but it is serious. The honourable Member believes that we do not take nuclear waste seriously, but I think there are quite a few parties that agree with me that we have been more parties that have taken this issue much more seriously than the government has done so far. In Finland, final storage facilities have started to be built. True technology is used there as it is planned for in Sweden. Research has been conducted for over 50 years. What makes the Green Party think they are more experts on this issue than those who have been working on it for a long time? When all the information and decisions are prepared, a decision from the government is the last that is required. What makes the Green Party more experts than the experts themselves?
i-f932c7177354e457-975	Madam President, I would like To sit in the Riksdag and try to manage an extremely important decision remotely and push it forward faster than is needed is not to take the nuclear waste issue seriously. Now it happens to be me who, when I was a minister, started the organisation that is now sitting and has gathered the experts that are needed to solve the issue. It is a collection of very knowledgeable people who have the conditions and time to go through the issue properly, in the way it deserves. In Sweden we also have a collection of organisations that can review from different sources. Looking at what comes from the various agencies, it becomes clear that there are issues that need to be further highlighted. We must take this seriously. We must allow the process to take the time it takes and do what the honourable Member claims to want, namely allow the experts to do their job.
i-f932c7177354e457-978	Madam President, I would like Karolina Skog debates very closely on issues where we have a great common interest and where we stand united in many ways. In the electrification that we see, not least in the transport sector, and which will reduce emissions radically, there are some challenges. One in five who have an electric car says that you will not get an electric car again because you lack charging at home. Of course, it is a huge problem if that kind of thing cannot be addressed. In 2016, when Karolina Skog was in the government, the Swedish Energy Agency asked to amend the lighting regulation, which allows the lighting network to only be used for lighting purposes, in order to also be able to set up charging poles, after an attempt made in Askersund with very successful results. As I said, it was almost five years ago. We know that it has been possible to do exactly that way in London, where lamp posts have simply been converted into charging poles. In 2019 this was included in the Climate Action Plan, thanks to the Center Party, because the government had not acted. In addition, in 2020 it was included in a survey on network concession presented by Elisabet Falemo. And now in 2021, the government is leaving a bill based on this particular investigation but chooses to exclude this proposal. So we have a proposal that would allow thousands of charging poles to be produced in one step in the cities, where we know that it is the most difficult thing to get them out. Yet the government chooses not to go forward with such proposals, even though we also agree. My question to Karolina Skog is: Why?
i-f932c7177354e457-983	Madam President, I would like In Corona times, it is often the case that Members need to represent each other in debates, and I am making a guest appearance here in the energy debate. I got a question about something that I haven't looked at in years, so I have to say passport and refer to the responsible minister. I am an economic-political spokesperson, and our responsible Member is following the restrictions on staying home with the slightest symptoms. I have to admit, I can't answer the question.
i-f932c7177354e457-984	Madam President, I would like That's an honest answer, Karolina Skog. In fact, I think that answer is more or less correct for the government as well. I do not think there is a sensible answer to why this has not been done, except perhaps running the affairs of the electricity grid companies. We must simply hope that Karolina Skog will take the matter with her and ensure that it is implemented. This will be done by the Center Party, if nothing else.
