i-df713b24e0d64a01-9	Good day, Madam President. Runar Filper has asked the former rural minister whether she believes that an entire industry should go to the grave with the last eel fish or whether she intends to ensure that transfers of eel fishing permits can be made possible. Runar Filper has also asked how the government works to develop more passages for eel and other fish at Swedish hydroelectric power plants and whether she has the ambition to ask the government to review how the Ålfonden's funding can be strengthened. Finally, Runar Filper has asked if she intends to save the eel by giving the county administrative boards the task of regulating the cormorant stock further. The work of the government, Madam President, is so distributed that I am the one who should respond to the interpellation. I would also like to stress on several occasions that a number of measures have been taken and are under way with regard to eel management in Sweden, not least in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 1100/ 2007 of 18 September 2007 on measures for the recovery of the stock of European eel. The Swedish implementation plan for the management of eel aims to accelerate the process of gradually rebuilding the European eel stock. The Agency is responsible for eel management at national level as well as for the implementation of the EU eel management plan. The eel's life cycle is complex where each individual goes through a number of different life stages and extensive migration to and between different water areas from birth to upbringing, sexual maturity and play. The Government considers it important to implement measures to reduce the human factors affecting mortality during all stages of the eel life cycle, including measures to increase eel emigration to its playground. Parts of the eel's life have been greatly affected, including by dams and hydroelectric plants. The work to create more passages for the eel has been funded in recent years, among other things, through sound support for local water management projects, so-called LOVA projects. In parallel, Madam President, the implementation of the national plan for the re-evaluation of hydro power is under way, and the government has made it clear that the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority will use SEK 95 million to strengthen its work with guidance, supervision, review and review of water activities, including the implementation by the US authorities of legislation that provides modern environmental conditions in a coordinated manner with the greatest possible benefit for the aquatic environment and for national efficient access to hydroelectric power, as well as restoration and bio-recovery. Of the specified amount, at least SEK 70 million shall be distributed to the county administrative board a. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has overall national responsibility for the implementation of game management policy, including issues related to the management of the cormorant population. The game administration is regionalised. If justified, the County Administrative Board may, in accordance with current regulations, decide to hunt for cormorants, which today is regularly carried out at several county administrative boards. The County Administrative Board can also decide on the right to intervene in the nests of birds or simply destroy birds' eggs under the Hunting Regulation (1987:905). Madam President, I would like In addition, on 6 May 2021, the Government decided to introduce a search for cormorants on the initiative of individuals. This means that an individual may, under certain conditions, carry out protective hunts on cormorants without prior authority decision.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-13	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Baylan for his answer. As I said, only those who have previously been authorised to fish eel can get permission again. In freshwater, however, certain areas are excluded. In Sweden, no new permits are given to fish eel. However, if you have previously had a permit for eel fishing, you can be granted a new permit. With this framework, eel fishing will eventually die out. The Swedish eel fishermen are fighting hard for their traditions. From what I understand, it is during a 90-day period that each eel fisherman can freely dispose of fishing days over the year, with the exception of November – January when the eel is closed. In total, each fisherman may pick up 8 1⁄2 tons of eel per year, figures that very few come up in. When you hear and read the debate, you can see that there are differences of opinion as to why the eel stock has decreased. There are probably a number of factors involved, and I think we will have to face up to that. Those who have been identified as some of the biggest villains are actually the eel fish. Thus, there has long been talk of banning eel fishing in the Baltic Sea. In 2007, Sweden introduced an eel fishing ban, which meant that only established fishermen were granted an exemption to continue fishing. As a result, families who had been eel fishermen for generations were not allowed to pass on the tradition. When established eel fishermen do not want or can more, the activity must not be handed over to the next generation and must be closed down. Today there are only five six eel fishermen left on the Åla coast, i.e. northeastern Skåne. Very large amounts of eel actually die in hydroelectric stations. They get stuck in the turbines, and the small eels can't get up the fish stairs and get stuck. It's a big problem. Thus, people's consumption of electricity is at least as great a reason for the eel's good or not to be and that the number has decreased as it has. According to the World Wildlife Fund in Finland, hydropower is even a much greater problem than fishing. I have read that, in total, around 150 000 kilos of eel die in the Swedish hydroelectric power plants every year compared to the more than 280 000 kilos that fish pull up. When you read about and follow the debate, you can see that there are also differences of opinion about the will to solve this problem. How does the Government view the possibility of intensifying the work of developing methods that facilitate eel migration and survival, so that it can overcome these obstacles and not be killed in turbines and so on? I know that catch cages are used at certain power plants and that they are then moved downstream. Such practices could well be developed and used to a greater extent. So my first question here in the debate is: how does the Government view this?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-21	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the debate that is important! Ålfisket is a Scanian cultural heritage. Along the eastern Skåne coast, the so-called Åla coast, which stretches from Åhus to Stenshuvud, the coastal image is characterized by eel fishing. The eel fish have infinite knowledge of the eel and its culture. People and companies come from all over the world to take part in the centuries-old tradition of eel fishing. It is about the eel migrations and festivals, i.e. tourism. By 2011 some 140 different nations had visited the Scanian Ålagillena together with Swedish and Scanian companies. According to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, HaV, the total landing value in 2018 was SEK 23 million. But then the importance of tourism and tourism is not taken into account, because it is much greater. In a commission report from HaV to the Government, HaV cites, among other things, the following: Cultural fishing communities are an important aspect to preserve as they promote culture and are a direct source of tourism. Eel fishing and its ports are of great value and contribute to increased tourism in different coastal municipalities, like other fisheries along other coastal routes. Thus, eel fishing has a major impact on other industries in the same municipality or region. The main positive impact is on the tourism industry's largest industries such as hotels, hostels, campsites and restaurants, but one can also imagine that the grocery trade is positively affected by the tourism flow thanks to the eel fishing. The tourism industry consists of both domestic tourism, i.e. Swedes travelling within Sweden, and foreign tourists. Consideration should be given to whether these coastal communities and cultural values remain if fishing for eel is not maintained. Ålarvet on the Åla coast has since 2015 also been listed as a national intellectual heritage under the Unesco Convention on the Protection of Intellectual Heritage. This means an obligation for Sweden to ensure that the cultural heritage remains alive. Eel fishing along the Åla coast is a small-scale, environmentally friendly, artisanal and coastal fishing. It happens near land with fixed gear. The tools, the homies, are not available but are produced by the eel fisherman, and the art of building a homage is passed on through an oral tradition from generation to generation that can be traced back in time to the Middle Ages. Madam President, I would like The eel stock is threatened, among other things, by hydropower, environmental toxins and predators such as cormorants and seals, which the Minister has been dealing with, but also by the less controlled fishing in Europe, especially in southern Europe. It is of great importance to work on several fronts for the eel stock to grow. According to a report by ICES, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, immigration of glass eel into Europe has increased since 2011. Point 39 of the January Agreement states that a voluntary programme for the buy-back of eel fishing rights is to be introduced in Sweden in order to reduce fishing of the endangered eel. In July 2019 the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, HaV, was tasked with investigating in dialogue with the Swedish Board of Agriculture how a voluntary programme for buy-back of eel fishing rights can be implemented. Where is the programme at the moment? Is this still relevant, and what does the government intend to do to preserve sustainable eel fishing, for cultural history, for tourism and for sustainable eel fishing in Europe as a whole so that these eel fishermen can continue with an important cultural heritage and an important industry in Sweden?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-29	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Members for their commitment. This is, as we have heard here from Runar Filper and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, a fishing with long traditions in our country. But the reasons why we are where we are, as both Members were, are several. It is about environmental toxins, and it is about other kinds of interventions in nature. Our need for clean electricity is one such example, as Runar Filer asked a question about which I will return to. It's also about the predators we were talking about. Madam President, I would like The bottom line of this, and that is what we need to look at, is that the recruitment of eel has decreased by 90 to 95% over the last 45 years. That is the basic problem. It is against this background that we are working with our friends in Europe within the European Union to do what we can to ensure that the situation is stabilised so that the stock can increase and we can also ensure that these traditions and this industry – I agree with Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson that it is also part of the tourism industry – can both survive and develop over time. But then we must also be sure that the eel stock is beginning to stabilise and strengthen. Madam President, I would like Runar Filer asked a specific question about how I view intensifying the work with regard to hydropower. I have worked very much, in my role as Minister of Energy in the past, on this particular matter. Together with a large number of parties in the Swedish parliament, we worked out a programme that means that we will go through our entire hydropower and modernise it and ensure that we can use it. It is clear that in many respects it is a blessing for our country that we have access to as much water electricity as we have – both because it is renewable and, of course, because it fits very well with many of the other types of electricity that are currently growing. It has been about ensuring that the impact on the environment and fauna is minimised, i.e. the animals. To this end, Madam President, a fund was also created to fund this type of effort so that, in the case of both eel and other types of fishing, we can do as much as possible, both in the form of passages and by other means, so that we can combine the necessary electricity generation from hydropower with a stronger eel stock in our country. That work is under way, Madam President. It is, of course, always a matter of assessment, but I believe that over time it will play a role in this work to strengthen the eel stock in our country. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asked how I see how sustainable it is. I believe that there is no other way than to work with the other European countries precisely for the reason I explained, that is to say that this is not something that any individual country has at its disposal entirely in terms of how the eel moves, for example. I would be happy to return to that discussion.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-37	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Government mentions that 90 – 95 percent of the eel has disappeared. That is a tragic fact in itself. We all agree on that. That the eel is about to disappear, you'd be happy to blame the eel fish. But as you can hear, there are other at least as large criminals in this context. That's not enough. The cormorants are now so many that in some archipelago areas they can eat up the entire annual production of fish. The country's 250 000 cormorants consume about 25 million kilos of fish a year. Researcher Sven-Gunnar Lunneryd at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences' coastal laboratory in Lysekil has shown that the proportion of eel in the cormorant's food in some cases amounts to 14 percent. It is perhaps no wonder that after the coast it is also called ålakråka. It eats a lot of eel. A number of scientists have also testified to this. In this comparison, the Swedish rescue plan for the threatened eel is a marginal and negligible effort. The cormorant is not threatened. There are, however, many local populations of pike, perch, eel and trout. They're the ones who need protection. As we know, the eel has fallen dramatically and is considered to be under immediate threat. I think that's right. For this reason, fishing has been reduced. And in fishing negotiations within the EU, Sweden has argued for a total ban on eel fishing. In this respect, it should be noted that the consumption of eel by the cormorants is actually of the same order of magnitude as the catches of the fishery. New research also shows that the cormorant eats at least as much eel as man catches. Each cut is worth SEK 2,500, says researcher Sven-Gunnar-Gunnar Lunneryd and referred to the cost of trying to keep the eels alive in the country. If the cormorants do not have a serious impact on fish stocks, man does not have it either, he went on to say. Living coasts, archipelagos and cultural heritage are linked, and it keeps small businesses alive. But it is destroyed when a licence holder cannot transfer the company engaged in inshore and eel fishing. Today's holder of eel fishing permits can be the last Swedish eel fish, just as I wrote in the interpellation. Today, the permit to fish eel is personal and not transferable. It is a strange order, to say the least, which is designed to destroy eel fishing and its proud traditions. Does the Government aim to simplify the transfer of eel fishing permits so that they can be transferred to people who can take over the company and so that they can inherit the next generation? It is extremely important.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-45	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is interesting and good to hear that there is an ambition that we should be able to continue with eel fishing in the country. In my previous post I mentioned that the important parts of cultural history and tourism should be able to be found in symbiosis with eel fishing. We have also talked about hydropower, seals and cormorants and that they cause more damage to the eel population than eel fishing does. The survival of the water power, seal and cormorant does not require the eel to survive. It does, however, for the eel fish, who depend on their survival. That is why small fishing industries are keen on the survival of eel, and they have invaluable knowledge of the eel that is needed if we are to understand and protect it better. In addition, the fishermen themselves have taken many initiatives to strengthen the eel stock. Through the Ålfonden, which the Government was in charge of, they finance the release of glass eel into the Baltic Sea; they have so far set out about 1 million eel. They also work in Ålakademien to achieve better water quality in the Baltic Sea. It's admirable. Are eel fishing bans compatible with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms? The Convention allows a State to implement legislation to regulate the use of property in accordance with the public interest. Practice shows that such legislation can be used to protect fish stocks through restrictive provisions. There is much to be said about this. I don't have time to tell you everything in this short time. However, in view of all these elements, of the question of whether a ban can be imposed and of the willingness to retain the eel stock in order for us to fish, I would like to know, like the previous speaker, whether the government will make it possible to change generations so that cultural heritage and tourism can continue in symbiosis with this.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-50	Madam President, I would like I do not think it makes sense to try to make it appear that it would be the fault of eel fishermen or to set eel fishermen against all the other reasons why we are where we are. We can all agree that this is about both fishing and the cormorants and the interventions we have made in the natural environment, for example in order to produce electricity in a clean and good way. As AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson points out, other environmental toxins may have affected this. Nevertheless, we can see that the situation is serious – a reduction of 90 % to 95 % in 45 years. There is only one way to guarantee eel fishing in our country in the future in order to preserve traditions and be able to develop the industry. It's that there's eel in the future too. So the answer to Runar Files' question is quite simple for me. If we can secure a stock that is also growing, it will be much easier to fish. If we can be sure of this, there is no need for such restrictions in the future either. Of course, this also includes, as I thought I said in my introductory speech, measures to limit the impact of cormorants on the eel population. It is both a matter of the county administrative boards being able to decide on this kind of protection hunt and that the government decided on 6 May this year that the individual can also take such an initiative under certain conditions. The goal and ambition is to reduce the impact of cormorants. Madam President, I would like One can sit and point out that one causes more damage than the other or one can say that we are where we are. Yes, we want a strong eel stock for many different reasons. One of the best reasons is that it also enables such traditions and industries to survive and be sustainable over time. We're not there today. Although today we have somewhat different roles as Members and representatives of the government, I think that we are basically in agreement on that very thing.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister Baylan! The eel fishermen have cormorants, hydroelectric power plants, restrictions and generational bans to fight against. The threat of a total ban on fishing for adult eels is also present. It was last voted on in the EU in 2017. If a total ban for a number of years were to be voted through, culture would be in danger of disappearing completely. The eel fishermen would then start making a living on other things, and who would dare or even want to go back to eel fishing when the tradition dies out? We must therefore bring the eel fishery to life. What does the Government think about working in the EU to protect the entire Åla coast as an intellectual heritage by UNESCO? This would mean that tradition and culture would be protected. I know that there are people and organisations who are already working for and hoping for it. My simple question is how do you look at taking it to the EU?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-57	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking both the interpellant and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a good discussion on an urgent issue. I believe that we agree fundamentally that if we are also to be able to have eel fishing in the future, we need to do our utmost, in the form of efforts to minimise the impact of hydropower, cormorants and by working to ensure the survival of many of the eels. It's a rather complicated life cycle they have in front of them in the water. This, in turn, can secure a population that can begin to grow stronger. Then we can also be absolutely sure that we can have an eel fishing forward in time. I believe that this is basically what we should focus our work on with the help of the funds that we have set up. These are the changes that are now taking place in the field of hydroelectric power, for example, with regard to modern environmental requirements, but also, of course, the other funds that, for example, Mrs HaV has at his disposal in order to do this. Of course, we shall also continue to work with the European Union. In response to Runar Filper's question, I do not rule out any measures that we seriously believe can secure the eel stock and thus, in the long run, also enable fishing in a way that contributes to and develops the cultural heritage and the tourism industry that this can be part of.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-61	Madam President, I would like Runar Filper has previously asked the Minister for Rural Development how she sees that funds from the Wildlife Fund, which is funded by hunters' money, should now be applied for by organisations whose purpose is to combat hunting. He has also asked where she thinks the limit is for what is game conservation and whether she believes that the general mission, which was established after a parliamentary decision in 1938, can be demolished without a parliamentary decision. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to stress, as the former Minister for Rural Development has done on several occasions in the past, that the general mission has not been abolished. It has been developed to pass judicial review and review, while at the same time safeguarding the important role of the hunting corps as a peoples' movement in Swedish game conservation. For a long time, Madam President, legal criticism has been levelled at the formulation of the general mandate, particularly the fact that it is problematic from the point of view of procurement law. As you know, the European Commission launched a pilot case against Sweden in 2016. The case closed on 12 June 2020, when the European Commission accepted Sweden's response that the Government's initiative is reviewing the allocation of funds from the Wildlife Fund and that it covers the distinction between grants and what needs to be procured in accordance with the Procurement Directive. Over the years, a number of attempts have been made to align the general mandate with precisely the procurement legislation. In order to create a long-term efficient, sustainable and transparent procedure for the allocation of funds from the Wildlife Fund, the Government decided on 7 January 2021 to instruct the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, among other things, to ensure that measures related to game monitoring, traffic search and biungulate game management are carried out. For this purpose, funds from the Wildlife Fund may be used and the procurement rules shall be taken into account. The new structure represents a development of the role of the Swedish Hunter Association. E n adaptation has been made to, inter alia, procurement legislation. However, the Swedish Hunter Association's special position in the country's game conservation will be preserved by the Government intending to award the Federation a multi-annual organisation grant from the Wildlife Conservation Fund for its nationwide game conservation work from 2022 onwards. Furthermore, Madam President, the government has decided on the regulation( 2021:12) on certain grants from the Wildlife Fund, through which non-profit national organisations can apply for grants from the Fund. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the responsible authority and decides on grants. In order to receive a grant, an organisation must comply with the requirements set out in the Regulation. Among other things, the organisation's activities are required to promote the conservation of game or other similar purposes compatible with the Hunting Act (1987:259) and the organisation's national and democratic structure. According to Section 41 of the Hunting Act, it is the Government that decides how to use the Wildlife Fund's funds. For me and the government, it is crucial to have a good dialogue with various stakeholders involved in the government's decisions and to deal with issues in a listening and respectful way. The Government considers that the changes decided, in addition to making the award procedure more compatible with the current legislation, will also promote the country's overall game management. Hunting and wildlife conservation in Sweden has long been the character of a popular movement where the voluntary involvement of landowners and hunters plays a crucial role. The government has no intention of changing this.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-70	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Swedish Democrats highlight Swedish hunting and game conservation as a tradition with ancestry. The requirements for Sweden's hunters are and should be high. They need to know how to conduct a safe and ethical hunt and know how to manage the different animals and how the interaction in nature works. Thanks to the fact that all Swedish hunters have to take the hunter'sxamen, the Swedish hunters have one of the world's highest levels of knowledge in terms of hunting, animals and nature. Sweden has about 300 000 registered hunters. There is widespread knowledge of hunting in general and about Swedish natural conditions in particular. Sweden's hunting corps is an invaluable knowledge bank that to a large extent possesses and carries on knowledge of animals, nature and culture. Wild game management needs to function satisfactorily, not least in order to minimise road accidents and injuries to agricultural industries, but also in order for game strains to be healthy and strong. This is, in fact, a prerequisite for long-term sustainable hunting that provides values in the form of game meat, contact with nature and outdoor life. Wild game conservation measures are aimed at promoting the growth of wild game and are often a prerequisite for hunting, while preserving and increasing the size and productivity of wild game strains. The various game conservation measures are usually carried out by hunters and hunting teams. Training and advice on game conservation is provided by hunter associations. Our hunting and hunting organisations play a crucial role here. As I said, they possess invaluable knowledge of our animals and our nature. To take away from them the important tasks of wildlife conservation such as biungry-village management, traffic search and game surveillance is a somewhat strange phenomenon that can really only exist in an environmental-partisan government. As the former rural minister Bucht said to a newspaper, it is the Green Party that has pushed for the general mission to be procured. According to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht it is the Green Party that has pushed the issue over the years. But Jennie Nilsson, who was rural minister after him, denied in an interview with Swedish Hunting that this was the case. However, the Green Party says the opposite, I have read that this is something that we in the Green Party have pushed hard to change, often the Social Democrats have put their heels on the ground and refused. But now we have finally reached an agreement! ..................................................... What does Minister Baylan think? Is it his party colleague, former Social Democratic Minister and rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, who slips the truth? Or is it the Green Party that does it? Who can be trusted in this government, not least on this issue?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-77	Madam President, I would like I thank you for this interpellation, which is about the general mission – or the hunting and game conservation mission, as it really is now called. There are some question marks in the answer from the Government, which I have read and which he has just read out. I would like to start by saying that there should have been legal criticism from several actors. I myself have only noted one player who has pointed this out, and that is the Green Party. I would be grateful if the Government would tell me who the others are, if I have missed anything. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have been pushing that the country's wildlife management delegations should have more say and that they should be allowed to make more decisions. What is happening now is that the power goes out of the country and back to the public and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. This creates anxiety clouds and worries, as hunters have done a fantastic job along the way. The trust and respect that exists for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is a bit nudged at the edge, to express itself mildly. You can hear and read in several places. There is also concern about the increased centralisation, which is a concern in itself. Madam President, I would like Public procurement is mentioned. It aims to create a long-term perspective on this issue. What we wonder about legislation is this: since world-leading expertise says that public procurement has not been required for a long time in the general mission, this question becomes very strange, and I would like to have this clarified. So it is not just a Swedish lawyer who has said this, but it is world-leading expertise. The Act on Public Procurement applies to purchases of goods and services and construction contractors. But it does not apply to grants. Or is there a major change going on? Does the government intend to procure other grants as well? Should we aim for sports clubs, football clubs, riding clubs, fishing clubs and others to procure? It is also a question that I have. In the Government's response, he says that hunting and game conservation in Sweden has long been characterized by a popular movement where the voluntary involvement of landowners and hunters plays a crucial role. Given the questions I have, I would like to know why it is so urgent to move this issue away from something that is working very well today.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-85	Madam President, I would like Without repeating myself too much, I can say that this change does not come from any dissatisfaction with how the Hunters' League has implemented this, but vice versa. Nothing is ever so perfect that it can never be improved, but I think it has worked well in a long way. The change does not come from any conspiracy theory of any kind either, but the reason, Madam President, is precisely what I mentioned in my first speech. You can, of course, stick your head in the sand and say: No, we do not like what the EU says, and that is why we do not care! However, both Members are well aware that when the European Union starts a pilot project and, in this case, looks at our way of doing things, it does not happen by chance. Often, but not always, there is a complaint behind it. This can be seen when you look at this in accordance with the laws that have existed in the past, and in parallel with this, procurement legislation has also changed over the years. Members are well aware of this, for it is not so long ago that this was voted through in this very Parliament – four five years ago. There was also a change in procurement legislation in this context. We are very keen to be able to decide on this for ourselves. If we had done nothing, we would have risked having a decision in the European Union that would rather have hijacked us. It was in view of the fact that we announced to the European Union that we intended to look at the issue that it closed its pilot project last year. It's not that long ago. These two expert Members are well aware of this, although I understand that at the beginning of an election year it is always a little tempting to blame someone – in this case for the Green Party or for some general conspiracy. In addition, Madam President, in support of what I say, we can look at the result. When the first reading has taken place, we can note that of the funds that have been granted, the lion's share has gone precisely to the Hunters' Federation. And why? Well, of course, because, as I said earlier, they make a long, heroic effort in terms of game conservation in our country. As I said earlier, it is also often a matter of voluntary commitment. Madam President, I would like As regards the funds granted so far, only two of the 18 organisations that applied for grants in May of this year were awarded grants. One was the Hunters' National Association, which received SEK 8.4 million, and the other was a hunting dog club that received SEK 300 000. It was these two who received subsidies, and I believe that this speaks clearly. It should also make Members see the facts: this change is precisely intended to enable us to develop the mission and, of course, to ensure that it is done in accordance with the laws and regulations and the commitments that Sweden has to comply with as a member of the European Union. So, Madam President, do not let something that is not really partisan sound like it is, because it is not!
i-MtBrsfhf1KXRG8SNsk7r5e	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The management of other wild game, such as elk, red deer and wild boar, must be appropriate and take into account local conditions in terms of traffic, forestry and agriculture. Too high a game density leads to increased game damage – we know that – and a major impact on surrounding properties. The increase in wildlife damage to soil and forest in recent years needs to be limited. These questions are known to the hunters' federations. To give the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency more power over this is really like to put the goat as a gardener when they have now taken away from the Hunters' Association the direct assignment with biungry game management, traffic search and game surveillance. We see it as extremely unfortunate that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can take part of the funds into the fund in order to be able to distribute money to other organisations. Sure, only the Hunters' National Association has received 8.4 million and the bird dog club has received 300 000 SEK – that's right. But this is still in its infancy. Some of the experience of how the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has worked and opposed hunting and so on, one can have concerns that remain in this regard. Swedish hunting and game conservation would benefit from being disconnected from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has too many areas to keep track of. The work should simply be freed from hunting and game conservation. Hunting and game management is an important issue for many people in large parts of the country and should not be handled by a large authority with so many other responsibilities. There are therefore strong reasons to transfer this responsibility from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to a pure hunting and game authority. It would provide a rural base with the potential to create a basis for a better dialogue with regional authorities, hunter organisations, land and animal owners and rural residents in general. The fact that the crack is widening between the city and the countryside means that the Swedish democrats want to work for a government exercise that holds Sweden together better, and a new hunting authority we see as part of this strategy. How does the Government view the fact that the 2015 Parliament's announcement to establish an independent hunting and game agency has still not become a reality despite parliamentary decisions? There is therefore a parliamentary decision that has been ignored for six years by this government. Here the Social Democratic and environmental-partisan government has ignored what Sweden's highest decision-making body has decided on. What does the Government think of that?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-99	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The intervention is therefore about the general mission or, if you like, the hunting and game conservation mission. I'll take my last questions again. I think it is a sad rhetoric when you refer to the election movement when we talk about urgent issues in which we have a great deal of commitment. I would also like the Government to talk about them instead of something else, which is something of game theory. It is mentioned that there has been a pilot case from the EU, and it is said from Sweden that this should be reviewed. Then the EU has responded and left it behind, and then it is up to the country to do things. I think that the government is hiding far too much by using the EU as a basis for the debate. Is it supposed to work better-- it can always do that? Answer yes. But then one must also be able to account for how something that works today will change to something better. How will this be improved? What is it you want to achieve that you cannot grasp and that the government wants to do? I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the LOU – it was rallied a little over the knowledge about it. Are we wrong when we talk about subsidies entering during the procurement process? It is not something that we have taken decisions on before. Is it coming through now? How will the Government ensure that grants are received under public procurement? In fact, the Government will have to answer that question. Then there is the legal criticism that has come. Of course you want to know who they are. It has been read that it is a party, the Green Party, that has left criticism. There is no information on others. One must also be able to account for who the others are. Who are the others who have made criticism? What is the EU saying that Sweden cannot do? How can the LOU stand in the way of contributions? What's the government thinking? How will this new order improve?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-106	Madam President, I would like If the starting point for the whole debate is that the general mission is abolished when it is not, there will of course be a reflection on whether it is an element of an electoral movement rather than the facts. The fact is that the general mission is still very much there. We have made a change following a move from the European Union – yes, it cannot be ignored. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson believes that this has been concluded. It was concluded after the government replied to the European Commission that the government intended to review it. It is clear that after that you could not have done anything, but then I think you had taken a very big risk with an operation that works very well. We could then have had a much sharper decision in the European Union than when we ourselves have it in the way we do – for the benefit of game conservation, I say. Yes, you can, of course, keep banging each other in the head between the parties in Parliament, but you cannot turn a blind eye to reality and stick your head in the sand when we have changes in legislation. Why is this being done? Well, it should hold according to the laws and regulations that we have today, not just according to what they used to look like. And here there have been legislative changes which have been brought to the attention of both our lawyers and, as I said, of the European Union. Madam President, I would like Runar Filer says: Yes, at the first practical outcome of this change it does not look so dramatic, from a hunting perspective. But what will it look like in the future? I think the direction itself is basically the same. That's because you still have to stick to the same laws. We have not changed the definition of game conservation, for example, but it is the same rules that have applied in the past and that in many respects have delivered good results. I really want to pay tribute to the country's hunters for that. Then we know – and I think we are all aware of this – that this is not a static activity. Reality changes all the time. Take the boars that Runar Filer is talking about! The other day, I presented proposals to further strengthen resources precisely so that we can deal with the wild boar strain. Of course the hunters have a key role to play there. If we are to reduce the increasing population of wild boars, it is of course necessary that we have that kind of systematic game management. Then, of course, resources become a key. It is against this background, I believe, that it is evident from the results that we have so far of this change that it is the Hunters' National Association that has received those resources. They are making this very important contribution.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-112	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Baylan. How does the Government see that funds from the Wildlife Fund, financed by hunters' money, can now be applied for by organisations where the purpose can be to counteract hunting? I don't think the hunters will be happy about that. Swedish Rovjursföreningen has already received state funds from grants 1:2 Environmental monitoring, etc. However, they did not receive any subsidies from the Wildlife Fund this time, but they applied for 2.3 million to be used for information and training on the major predators. Where does the Government think the limit is for what are game conservation efforts? Where is the democratic basis for tearing up a democratic decision without taking into account the parliamentary situation? Does the Government consider that the general mission, which was established just after a parliamentary decision in 1938, can be demolished without a parliamentary decision, just like that? In my world, democratic decisions are to be followed. If they are to be demolished, it should be done in the same democratic order as when they were once taken. There were some questions. Thank you for this debate.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-117	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking both the interpellant, Runar Filer, and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, who participated in the debate. Had it been as it was claimed, that the general mission had ended, which is quite wrong, I would have sounded exactly the same as the interpellant. That is not the case. The general mission is still there, because we have a great need for it. On the other hand, we have seen a need to change it so that it is also in accordance with the laws and regulations we have and the commitments we have towards the European Union. We do it because the alternative, I think, would have been that someone else had decided this for us, and I think that would have been even worse. I think we can fully agree on this in this House. I can reassure the hunters who listen to this debate, but also the interpellants. The fees collected in this fund may be used to promote game conservation and other similar purposes in accordance with the Hunting Act, Runar Filer. That's how it is. It is therefore not the purpose and not the definition of game conservation that has changed, because it is in accordance with the law. This, of course, has continued to be followed by the authorities. Then I think that both Runar Filper and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson are well aware that as a minister I cannot point out and say anything about this type of exercise of authority in advance. At that time, I think that the same Members had quite quickly notified me of the KU-government. But when it comes to the purpose and what this should be done, it is regulated by law, and that, of course, has authorities to follow. And now that we look at the first practical use of the new order, we see that it is above all the Hunters' National Association that receives the money.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-121	Madam President, I would like Runar Filper has asked former rural minister n how she sees the possibility of proposing a ban on trawling by vessels greater than 12 metres long within the Swedish economic zone, i.e. 12 nautical miles, in order to promote small-scale traditional coastal fishing. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. The government's overall approach is to work towards sustainable fishing and for more sustainable fishing methods and tools while implementing measures to improve the marine environment. As the former Minister for Rural Development informed me, I would like to stress that a series of measures have been taken and are ongoing as the competitiveness of small-scale and coastal fisheries is an important issue for me and the government. Madam President, I would like It is the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management that has the Government's mission for the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of lakes, watercourses, seas and fish resources. Sweden, through the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, conducts continuous data collection on fish stocks through annual monitoring programmes. Unfortunately, Madam President, there are downward trends in Baltic herring. However, the reasons for the downward trend are not clear, as there are many factors beyond fishing that can affect herring. Adequate scientific evidence to clarify causation is a prerequisite for assessing the right measures to be taken for the conservation and management of fish stocks. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to investigate how fishing regulations can be developed to protect coastal spawning stocks of herring in the northern Varsinais Baltic Sea. The assignment shall be reported to the Government by 31 March 2022. I follow the work to improve the environmental situation and knowledge of fish stocks in the Baltic Sea continuously. For me and the government, it is important that in future there are also conditions for small-scale coastal fishing and a competitive fishing industry that supplies and prepares fishery products throughout our country.
i-6Ywkr6qN2LmSuf6pfgtP9A	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer to the questions, Ibrahim Baylan! Swedish coastal fishing is currently facing major concerns. Most of the fish are fished large-scale by international vessels, which then grind the fish into fishmeal for cattle and fish feed. At the same time, the remaining fish stocks are heavily grazed by growing stocks of seals and cormorants. If small-scale coastal professional and recreational fishing is to continue and if the industries of our coastal communities are to flourish, we need measures that limit both large-scale fishing and stocks of seals and cormorants in our waters. Therefore, measures need to be taken to address today's threats to small-scale, coastal fishing and the living conditions of businesses and people along our entire coasts. If nothing is done, small-scale fishing risks being knocked out by industrial fishing and the increasing stock of seals and cormorants. At the same time, the latter cause damage to fishing gear and local nature and buildings. In Aftonbladet, on 27 June, we read that the advance of Scandinavian fishermen in British waters threatens to eradicate the lunne bird. It's alerting the UK's largest environmental organization. For many years there has been huge industrial fishing in the North Sea. Mostly the boats are from Denmark. Some are from Sweden. The Lunne bird lives in the North Atlantic with the fish kungstobis as primary food. Now the UK's largest environmental organisation and the Ministry are alerting that systematic fishing is already threatening the endangered lunne bird. Annually, hundreds of thousands of tons of kungstobis are taken from the North Sea, which has an impact on seabirds and other wildlife. It is similar industrial fishing that we see in Swedish waters. The boats come mainly from Scandinavian countries. Denmark stands out, but also overfishing from Sweden threatens the lunne bird. Fishing is so-called industrial fishing, which means that it is not for human consumption but for the extraction of fishmeal and fish oil for agricultural feed and fertilisers. Agreements in the EU, preserved after Brexit, give foreign boats almost exclusive access to kungstobis fishing off the British coast. On the Swedish coast and off the Swedish coast, this is a similar concern. Herring stocks in the central Baltic Sea have decreased drastically since the 1970s and 80s. Industrial trawlers take out the entire fishing quota of herring and herring in a smaller area, which hits the small-scale fishermen and archipelago life hard. This has become a big and noticed problem not least outside and in connection with the Stockholm archipelago. It has brought about major changes in the Baltic Sea ecosystem, whose culture and function have now changed drastically. Small spikes have taken over in the outer archipelago due to the low Baltic herring bodies along the coast. In the inner archipelago, where the herring remains, the sprig is not as numerous. If we move the trawl line to 12 nautical miles for all trawlers, we will destroy the small-scale trawls. Is the government prepared to look seriously at the consequences of trawling and how it would affect small-scale coastal fishermen such as trawlers with smaller boats? How many are they, and what boats could still be large-scale trawling within this drawn-out limit? How do we get to grips with this? I'd like to ask the government that.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-132	Madam President, I would like This is an interpellation that arouses great commitment, and I have signed up for the debate for the sake of small-scale fishing. I intend to stick to Öresund on the occasion of a debate which I had last spring with the then rural minister, Jennie Nilsson, on small-scale fishing and house fishing. At the end of that debate, the Government said: It is much more important for people living in these places than one might realize until the day it is threatened. I am very grateful that we have this kind of discussion. As soon as the pandemic is over, I hope to be able to travel again. One of the goals I have is to be able to visit this part of Sweden, for example. ..................................................... My question to Minister Ibrahim Baylan is whether he intends to pick up the thrown glove from party colleague Jennie Nilsson and take the time to come down to western Skåne and look at the cultural historical values and how house fishing works in everyday life. It is an issue which is very much similar to the debate we have had on eel fishing earlier today. My second question is whether the Council of State and the Government intend to take on board the information that former Minister Jennie Nilsson has mentioned as new facts in connection with that debate, something I come to know. The question concerns Öresund and the string of fish ports that have been there since the Stone Age. There is a tradition that connects with today's society. Small-scale coastal fishing has been a natural and important part of western Skåne. The professions and companies have been created around fishing, such as boat construction. In today's society, this is of course linked to tourism and tourism, restaurants, cafés, ice cream sales and other activities related to life in the harbour with the fishermen who manage the boats and livelyly discuss catches around the docks. Fish are an important part of keeping ports alive. But nowhere in the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management do you want to take up the need for house fishing, but you want to completely ban it. Reference is made to the porpoises, which are said to be the reason for the ban. With this focus, I and many others ask ourselves the question: How has the authority reasoned? The Tumlar stock has increased from 2015 to 2020 and has moved from threatened to viable stocks. This means, Madam President, that the stock of porpoises has increased at the same time as fishing has been conducted. The source of this is Artdatabanken's redlist. Thus, the stock of tumults does not decrease but increases in symbiosis with the fishing going on. I believe that this is an essential part of reporting from the authority to the government when proposing a ban. I would also like to point out that the mission of the government to authorities and county boards should be to combine different interests with each other in the best way, not to put a dead hand over what works. When it comes to Öresund, there is a very high concentration of porpoises north of Kullen during much of the year, which stands out from Skåne's western corner. This applies to the area that according to the chart is outside the 20-metre curve, as it is called. That area could simply be protected. So there are solutions to the question of porpoises and fishing. That is why I will come back to the question I raised with Jennie Nilsson this spring when we discussed and debated it. It was a matter of new knowledge that the government did not have at the time and that she brought with her. I also want to know if the Government is willing to come and look at this in Skåne.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-142	Madam President, I would like The fundamental question of this interpellation is how we see the possibility of proposing a ban on trawling by vessels longer than 12 metres within the Swedish economic zone and thus favouring small-scale traditional coastal fishing. We heard a little bit from Runar Filer about what is going on in the North Sea and the opportunities that exist. Just to underline the facts, Madam President, a Member State may take so-called non-discriminatory measures for the conservation and management of fish stocks and for maintaining or improving the conservation status of marine ecosystems within a limit of 12 nautical miles from baseline. This is reflected in Article 20 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 2013 on the Common Fisheries Policy. However, this requires sufficient scientific evidence to show that there is a causal link to take action. It was against this background, Madam President, that I said in my introductory speech that today there is no such scientific basis. Does this mean that there is no such causal link? No, it does not mean, but it means that you may not have looked at it sufficiently. However, if you are to take such measures, you must also have scientific facts to keep it. For it is one thing what you want and what you might suspect, but you must also show that it is. Then the question is complicated; just as with eel, there is not only one reason. We talked earlier about the cormorants, and we have the discussion about seals. We also have a discussion about how we have dealt with our water and marine environment in the past, which unfortunately also affects fish stocks. Then there is the fishing itself. Of course, the very basis of fishing – whether it be coastal or fisheries at all – is that we get rid of the stocks and that they can be secured and viable. In fact, my answer is that I do not, of course, exclude measures, but that it must first be the facts on the table to start with. It is about being able to solve the right problems and that such measures will later be legally maintained. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson had a number of questions, but let me just briefly say that it is clear that we are constantly receiving new information. It is clear that this in itself affects both government mandates and decisions, or for that matter the proposals we make to Parliament when it comes to budget decisions and – of course – legislative changes. In this, I shall also say that, as I think the honourable Member is well aware, there are almost always conflicting interests with which to try to balance and find a way forward. In this case, then, we will ensure that we have strong populations of porpoises, herring and so on, but it is also set against other interests. Take, for example, the discussion we are currently having about offshore wind power, which is often set against porpoises, the possibility of fishing and so on. For us, it is always a matter of ensuring that new assessments are made and proposals that are balanced with new information.
i-UztUzbf6XxMc6MAu4X3CZn	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers, Ibrahim Baylan! As we heard in the previous debate on eel fishing, cormorant stocks also affect this debate. The stock needs to be significantly reduced. The cormorant population in Sweden is considerable and contains many nesting couples, and it negatively affects fish stocks, creates a sanitary inconvenience to outdoor life and reduces forest and nature where birds nest. Therefore, a general hunting period for cormorants would be good both from an administrative and from a conservation perspective. We want to see measures against serious damage to fishing, fishing gear and vegetation. The threat of cormorants to fish stocks that are red-listed or of extra importance to the ecosystem must be kept behind. Joining colonies formed shall be reduced within and in the vicinity of fish closure areas and in the vicinity of residential buildings. If the colonies lived in the places where they cause the least damage and inconvenience, it would reduce conflicts. We want to make it easier for multi-annual protection hunting permits as well as for the use of other hunting and intimidation methods as a complement to the hunting with firearms carried out. Here we want to advocate the puncture and oil ring of eggs, which are effective methods that could reduce cormorants. In recent years, the number of seals along the coastline has also increased, causing serious problems for coastal fishing. The government has now decided to allow license hunting on grey seal, which is good. Such hunting should also include chubby seals and bays, which cause similar damage to catches and fishing gears in other parts of the coastal band. Licensing carried out in the same way as today's regional protection hunt would not threaten seal populations. On the other hand, seal hunting could be a means of reducing conflicts between seals and the fishing industry, which is experiencing increased damage to fishing gear and catches. Today it is only permitted to shoot seals in protective hunting for chubby seals and coves. It requires a state that costs money and knows where it can be shot, because it is a rather complicated set of rules. In addition, boating is a must, and the heavy animal – whose meat and skins cannot be sold – must be taken care of. In order to increase incentives and to reach any quota allocated in the event of a protection hunt, compensation should be provided to sellers. More people would then be willing to make an effort to fill the allocated quota for protection hunting. Similarly, compensation could be paid for the licence hunt on grey seals that is now being made possible by the government. This would also reduce the risk of poaching and wounded animals. Sälsforskaren S-G Lunneryd at SLU's facility at the H despäsfiskelaboratoriet in Lysekil, to which I have previously referred, proposed four years ago the shooting money on seals as the only solution to the great growth of seals. In an article in the OT, the same researcher stated that the need for licence hunting is even greater in the Skagerrak, as the large increase in chubby seals is a serious threat to the cod population there.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Regarding Swedish coastal fishing, coastal fishing and house fishing, it is important for the fishing villages in Öresund that they can remain and have a lively activity. It is unfortunate that it has come to light that the responses from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the County Administrative Board have not reported to the government that the porpoise stock has increased while fishing. Last spring, Minister Jennie Nilsson spoke about transparency from the County Administrative Board and consultations. It should be said that something like this had not happened then, before the summer. I would like to know what has happened to that question since then. Both the municipality of Båstad and the municipality of Höganäs have written on the matter, and so has Mölle's harbour association, Kullens Fiskareförening, Sveriges Kust- och Insjöfiskares Organisation, Höganäs Båtsällskap, Nyhamnslägehamn, Arilds port, Bökebäcks port, Svanshalls port, Arilds port, Kattviks port, Båstads port, Norrebro harbour, Burensvik harbour association, Rammsjöstrand harbour, Gamlebro harbour Öllöv, Magnarps port, Nyhamns såg & Båtbyggeri, Pensionat Strandgården & Byakrogen, Café Mölle, a number of village groups and about fifteen house needs fishermen. They have become involved – and need – in this matter, based on the concerns they have about where the decision of the Maritime Authority is going. It is an urgent issue to be able to continue fishing. The Government says that there must be a balance – yes, but there are answers to this and examples that are provided on how the task can be solved. It's like the porpoises are increasing. It must be included in this discussion so that you can keep the need for house fishing. I hope the government takes it with them.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-163	Madam President, I would like Let me start at the last end of the year. It is clear that the government does so, both on the basis of the information that comes and not least on the basis of the commitment that emerged now that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson read out how many are behind this. However, as I said earlier, it is often the case that new information needs to look at the issues properly and ensure that there is a good balance. Madam President, I would like In her previous post, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asked me something that I did not have time to answer, namely about my ambition. Surely we all have great hope that, with the help of the vaccination campaign, we are coming to a new stage when it comes to the possibilities of moving around the country and travelling – we, too, in our roles as elected representatives and ministers. Of course we want to do it as soon as it is practicable. Perhaps it may sound strange if, as the Minister for Innovation, I say that I am getting a little tired on the screen. It's a great technique, but there's nothing that beats that kind of visitation and meeting people live. It is clear that I am looking forward to this which has been so difficult during the pandemic now hopefully being possible: to travel to the country and take part in the engagement, stories and suggestions of people who work with this in everyday life or have it as part of their leisure time. Madam President, I would like Runar Filer asked a question about additional measures. The government has already taken measures, for example regarding the cormorants that we talked about earlier in connection with eel fishing. There is now a possibility of a protection hunt that also a lot of county boards use. In May this year, we also introduced the possibility for individuals to hunt cormorants under certain conditions, precisely in the sense of accessing some of the problems that Runar Filer points to. We also have the seal protection hunt to which the honourable Member points. All of this shows that we have a pragmatic approach in order to find the very balance that I talked about earlier. It is clear that I am not ruling out further measures. If it turns out that some of the measures taken to achieve a certain purpose do not work, then you must also reasonably look at other measures and add them to the goal of what you want to achieve. In this case, we are talking about coastal fishing; in the past, we were talking about eel fishing. Here I think that we are basically in complete agreement that we should take action, both to be able to come back to the good tradition of eel fishing and in this case to strengthen fish stocks so that we can have this type of fishing, whether it is professional or for house needs, as was mentioned earlier.
i-P1frs3kMVEJfynQDfUNwq9	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that, Ibrahim Baylan! This is an important subject, as the Minister also highlights. If we are to save Swedish traditional, small-scale coastal fishing, a number of initiatives need to be investigated and launched by the government, just as we have talked about here. Investigate the consequences for coastal fishing of moving the trawl line to 12 nautical miles for larger vessels! It's really important. Start a dialogue with Finland and Denmark to move the trawl line to 12 nautical miles for larger vessels! Facilitate multi-annual protection hunting permits on cormorants! Facilitate the use of other methods of hunting and intimidation as a complement to the hunting of firearms, such as the oil ring and the spotting of eggs! This thing with guns isn't enough. If you shoot into the colony, the pack escapes the field. It's kind of hard to hunt cormorants like that. For license hunting on chubby seals and coves! Scientists have asked that this should happen. For compensation for seal shooting, what used to be called gunfire money! It is also something that has been advocated by scientists. This is the only way to overcome the strong growth that is taking place. I hope that the Minister is prepared to seriously look at or implement these necessary measures to strengthen Swedish coastal fishing. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate. That was nice.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-175	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking both the interpellant and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for the speeches that have been made on an important issue. I do not believe that there is any separation of parties here. The aim must be to recover strong fish stocks so that we can have viable fishing activities for both cultural reasons, for economic reasons and for reasons of tourism. Here there are a number of measures that need to be taken. Some of these we have already taken; in other cases we must have scientific evidence in order to move forward. As I said, I am not the one who usually starts by excluding measures. Moreover, I usually be careful to say that there is only one way forward. That may sometimes be the case, but it is rarely the case. Often there are a number of collaborative factors that can help to find the balance in an issue that I talked about earlier. We are working on this and will continue to do so. I am also counting on Members' commitment to this issue to continue, so we will well be seen and heard on this issue, either in committee or in this House.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-178	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked the Minister for Environment and Climate Change whether the Minister will ensure that a project is launched, in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement, which can truly save elm and ash, how much the Government will allocate to the project in this year's autumn budget and whether the Government will work actively to modernise genetic engineering legislation. The work of the government, Madam President, is so distributed that I am the one who should respond to the interpellation. On 28 April this year, the Government has received a declaration of good faith regarding measures against elm sickness and ash-sickness from the Riksdag. Preparation of the announcement is ongoing within the Government Office. Also before the budget bill in 2022, the Government is currently in progress within the Government Office, and the Government will return to the rich days later in September. The Government considers that the overall GMO legislation needs to be reviewed in relation to the implementation of certain uses of new genomic technologies following the recent study by the European Commission. In the context of the ongoing process within the EU, the government will work towards legislation that is appropriate and proportionate and takes risks into account and is flexible so that it is also able to cope with technological developments.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Minister for your answer. Today we are debating a particularly important environmental measure, namely measures to save ash and elm from extinction. My central question is whether or not the government intends to take these measures. In that case, they must be included in the budget. I understand that all the final investments in the budget may not be finished and that we cannot go out with everything. But the government has already released a few initiatives, so you're probably getting a little done. Ministers also usually say at least something about an area being important for voters not to think that the minister ignores the area – provided the minister now really thinks it is important, of course. Then I wonder: Does silence mean that the government has not decided whether this is important or not? I am not asking the Minister to say a sum in the budget, only if you intend to carry out the project. This project has been decided by the Riksdag that the government should implement. Then why is it important? Almen has been severely affected by elm disease. It is a fungus that has entered Sweden and Europe. There has been a method of monitoring and combating it by sawing down sick trees, but this has failed. The Environmental Protection Agency believes that one should give up. That's why we need to find new methods. These species of trees cannot be saved by any other means than resistance to the fungus. Other possibilities are exhausted. If they don't get resistance to the fungus, they'll be eradicated. This applies especially to the elm, but the box is also very bad. On these two tree species there are also species that are completely dependent on the trees and that will also die out. The Minister should know if a project of this kind is to be launched, and I think that the Minister can say that today. The Parliament has made this known to the government. The situation of the elm is acute, as is the situation of species dependent on the elm. The project is also one of the most environmentally efficient measures that could be envisaged. About a hundred species can be saved from extinction for the small cost of $2 million per species. There is nothing comparable to that in efficiency. In order for reserves, which are the major issue for the current government in the conservation of forest species, to be an equally effective method, 5 000 species must be saved from extinction over a ten-year period. It doesn't stop there. This is a method that can be used for future damage to other tree species. Tree species we know many times are the foundation of ecosystems. Then my question is: Does the Minister mean that he does not know whether or not to carry out the parliamentary announcement?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-188	Madam President, I would like In the 17 years I have had the privilege of sitting in this House or in government, I have always felt a great deal of respect for the decisions taken by the elected assembly. They are, of course, treated with the seriosity they deserve. The announcement came in April, and it is being prepared, as I said in my first speech, at the Government Office. Let me be very clear about – and I also believe that Staffan Eklöf is well aware of this – that with the management model that we have in our country, it is not the government that is starting projects. There are very few projects that governments, regardless of color, start. Our Swedish Government Office is relatively small in an international perspective. On the contrary, large authorities, expertise and research institutions are at their disposal, not least universities and in this case SLU. In parallel with the fact that we are preparing this announcement, it is clear that work is also under way, and I believe that Staffan Eklöf is well aware of this. Let me mention a few examples that are not just about ash and elm. Unfortunately, there is a great deal going on which is worrying about forest damage of various kinds and which, in this case, threatens to wipe out entire populations. We are Forest Research to which we contribute resources together with the industry. In the latest framework programme, ranging from 2021 to 2024, we contribute SEK 50 million through research to learn more about the causes but also about what measures we need to take to both prevent and remedy when damage or parasitic attacks occur. The second, which we have quite recently set up, is the forest damage centre that has been set up at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. SLU has received SEK 30 million for this purpose, and it is of course for several reasons, but this is one of the reasons that exists. We need to learn more and develop more methods to curb the problems. In all honesty, I will say, with quite a lot of humility, Staffan Eklöf, that often it is so that if things are very simple they are usually implemented quite quickly. Unfortunately, however, I believe that some of the challenges we have in terms of both ash and elm and spruce bark or whatever it may be is not as simple as it sounds, and therefore you do not just need a project. Sometimes we may also need to increase the resources for research, as we have done, but also from a number of authorities and research institutions to develop new methods, because, as you know, the reality is not, and not in this case either, particularly static. Climate change and other things mean that we will have to constantly face new challenges, whether it is new parasites that enter and that we have not previously had in our fauna or that the weather itself changes things and means that we must constantly change our methods. As far as the announcement itself is concerned, of course, we take it very seriously. Yes, we are working on it, and when we are done with the preparation in the Government Office, we will of course respond to the Riksdag, as the Government Office always does. In addition, as I said, we are doing work on forest damage and parasites and so on. That work will continue. I can see before me – unfortunately, I should say, Staffan Eklöf – that the work on it will need much more resources in the coming decades than we have been used to.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-197	Madam President, I would like It was only the last thing that was comforting, I think, in the Minister's reply. I would like to begin by correcting one thing that I regard as an error, namely that the government cannot start projects. It must be a semantic question. Let's call it a mission instead. Specified missions the government can provide – it goes perfectly well. It has been done, for example, with the S kogsskadecentrum, as the Minister mentions. The Minister refers to the investment in the forest damage centre as one of the solutions to this. But now it is as if the report from Skogsskadecentrum already existed before the debate in the Chamber when the Riksdag decided to give an announcement to the government. The majority realized that Skogsskadecentrum does not have such a focus that it can save elm and ash. I have the report here, and I'm gonna read it. It will compile knowledge, generate new knowledge, aim for competence development, advice, monitoring, risk analysis, inventories and compilations. Monitoring, monitoring and management of biotopes protection areas and providing advice and coordination shall be carried out. But for the sake of elmen, we are beyond that. This will not help the elm, and it realized the majority. We've got past the point of learning. Now we have to be operational. It's the only thing that can save the elm and probably the box. The Social Democrats also mentioned the Forest Damage Centre in the last debate we had, and I see it as the Social Democrats tried a fine one. The majority of the Swedish Parliament saw through it and voted in favour of the Swedish Democrats' proposal. Then there are other initiatives that are self-initiated. There is one at Skogforsk that has a contact point with this and one at Sveaskog that has a strong contact point with this. The latter is an initiative that is very commendable. I take it that Sveaskog has grown tired of the government's passivity and is trying to do something on its own. But their commendable initiative is not enough. Firstly, we are talking about half a million, and secondly, as they write, they want to do what they can with others. They will be able to make an important contribution, but they will not be able to draw this whole load themselves. On this basis, the parliamentary majority voted through an announcement to the government to do what is missing. What, then, is missing? Well, the government is going to give a mission to an authority or research institute to develop and implement a plant breeding project that will give our wild elms resistance to the elm disease and our ashs resistance to the ash shoot disease with the aim of saving these two tree species from extinction. It will not be possible to achieve this goal unless a mission is given to a very potent player and with the clear ultimate goal of saving ash and elm.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-206	Madam President, I would like With the respect that I have for Parliament, I will of course answer when I come here to the questions that the honourable Member is asking. The question from the honourable Member was: will the Minister ensure that a project is launched? And then I answered the question that the government starts very few projects. It is as the honourable Member says that once we have prepared the matter, in this case an announcement from Parliament, it will come to a conclusion, and that conclusion will, of course, be returned to Parliament. As the honourable Member says, Madam President, much of this development is progressing fairly quickly. We can take the elm disease as an example, as the honourable Member also points out. There, the disease can progress very quickly: Trees can fall ill and die in a few weeks. In addition, there are today over the entire range of elms. Of course, this is a very big challenge. It is against this background that I mention a number of initiatives. The Member also adds to Sveaskog. I have the Prime Minister's mission to manage Sveaskog, and of course I know well what they are doing. It will be a bit quarrelsome, Staffan Eklöf, to stand there and say that everything good that is done has someone else taken the initiative while the government does nothing. Many of these initiatives come about either through the very tasks we are talking about or, in the case of the companies, in fairly direct and continuous dialogue with the Ministry of Enterprise, which manages the vast majority of the state-owned companies. So, with regard to both elm disease and ash disease, I do not think there is a need for political contention. We do a number of things. We are looking through the announcement, but we are also looking, on the basis of the challenge that exists with regard to both the elm disease and the ash shot disease, at taking further steps to do what we can where there is already, but also at the possibility of, as in the case of Gotland, still preventing and preventing its spread. It's not an easy job. I would have liked it to be as simple as the honourable Member would have suggested. But we will do our utmost to prevent and prevent or, where it has already spread, see what we can do to prevent the whole population from being knocked out.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-212	Madam President, I would like I apologise for being clear, but it is important to be clear on this issue. I fear that the government will settle down and duck and hide behind the initiatives that have been taken, which are clearly inadequate, in my view. Moreover, one cannot rely on the continuation of self-initiated projects. These are measures that must run in the order of 15 years in order for us to succeed in saving elm and ash. Otherwise, it won't be possible. I hope that when the government lays down the budget, the government will make a clear and offensive effort of some kind, preferably in line with what I describe. I've even tried to help the government with how to think. This is a particularly important issue for the environment. I wonder if the government should not be a little worried about its legacy if it is not taken seriously. As I see it, the government can choose to become either environmental heroes or environmental villains. We will follow the case. And we will hold the government responsible for what is being done and, in particular, what is not being done. However, I hope that the government will come with an investment in the budget, and then I will be positive. I promise you. Thank you for the debate.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-216	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Staffan Eklöf for initiating this and for the interpellation. I must also say that this is the first time I have heard in this House a Swedish democrat accuse the government of not doing enough for the environment. In almost all the debates with a Swedish democrat in whom I have participated, in this House or elsewhere, it has sounded rather the opposite; we are doing far too much, taking far too much account of nature conservation and the environment and listening far too much to the Green Party, which often cites and pushes for biodiversity, biodiversity and more. Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has not done so, but it is clear that, apart from the value of the trees themselves, there is another very strong reason. It is precisely in terms of biodiversity and biodiversity in our forests that trees are becoming extremely important. As these diseases spread, they also become a threat to a number of our other goals dealing with biodiversity, biodiversity and more. We'll work on it. And just as I said earlier, as we do with announcements, we will return to Parliament in proper order. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the debate and wish both the interpeller and the President a pleasant afternoon.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-220	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me what measures, in my area of responsibility, I am prepared to take to maintain the building act required in the event of an acute shortage of cement arising on 31 October this year. Since the beginning of July, the Government has been closely monitoring developments regarding Cementa's application for environmental permits in Slite on Gotland. The government also has ongoing contact with the companies, trade associations and trade unions concerned and has, among other things, taken note of a joint letter from the construction, civil engineering and mining sectors on the consequences of the situation. An independent impact assessment of the situation has also been carried out. The Government notes that in the foreseeable future Sweden needs cement for, among other things, the construction of housing and the development of infrastructure. A production stop at Cementa limestone quarry in Slite can have extensive social consequences in the short term and, among other things, pose significant difficulties for housing construction. The Government announced at a press conference on 10 August that the Government Office is preparing a temporary and time-limited amendment to the Environmental Code that allows the Government to decide on continued supply and water activities for a limited period of time. The limited deadline mentioned at the time is aimed at remedying the emergency situation, but a major effort will be required from different stakeholders to reduce vulnerability both in the short and long term. The situation has shown that society is vulnerable and dependent on an individual input and supplier. The resilience of society to vulnerabilities in the supply of raw materials and access to inputs need to be strengthened. At the same time, a safe water supply needs to be ensured. The Government intends to return with long-term and targeted measures aimed at promoting more sustainable construction and strengthening society's resilience to raw materials supply one in the construction sector, such as measures that drive the circular transformation. The Government also intends to review the possibility of stimulating research and innovation with a focus on increased reuse, reuse and development of new building materials. Finally, the government is looking at the possibility of assigning Boverket to investigate whether, and how, the introduction of limit values for the climate impact of buildings can accelerate.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-225	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. The issue does not just concern the cement crisis that occurred this summer. It's wider than that. Sweden has a great need to build housing, and there are already many obstacles – economic and practical. The latter include the lack of planned land, the lack of personnel at different levels and now also an acute lack of various building materials. We have a shortage of construction steel, reinforcement bars and the like, whose price has risen by 35 per cent in the last year. Wood wood has gone up by 40 percent in price. The price of OSB, a record material for interior walls, has risen by 20 percent. As a result, the prices of other wood-based panels also rise. The government and, above all, the Green Party are pursuing a policy that risks further reducing the supply of sawn timber. It is of the utmost importance that we pursue a policy of increasing wood construction without having to pay for the import of a raw material that is actually abundant in the Swedish forest, provided that it is allowed to be harvested. Madam President, I would like This is not a forest debate. But when you hear Märta Stenevi talk about circular conversion, it should be borne in mind that, alongside the cement shortage, the timber industry is also deeply concerned about the lack of sawn wood. Stock levels at the Swedish sawmills have not been lower in 20 years, and prices are rising. This debate is really about how to achieve the building objectives, given that we already have a shortage and will have an even greater shortage of building materials. The notice planned this summer as a result of what is happening with Cementa will be added just in time for Christmas. This could be 100 000 to 200 000 employees in the construction sector. The Government devotes most of its response to describing that the government is in the process of extending the permit for another eight months. She can do that because, at the time I asked the question, I was not aware that the government was planning to push the cement crisis ahead and gain time by extending the permit by eight months. However, the answer also shows that while the Minister and the Government are aware of the seriousness, they are empty-handed in terms of measures. It will punish itself – through building stops in the coming autumn, through unemployment and through the worsening of an already crying housing shortage. The government now has eight months. The question posed is what action they intend to take during that time. The original question was about what the government intends to do now, but now there are another eight months to plan for action. Eight months respite is not enough. A renewed application for lime mining in Slite will take several years to prepare and process. Before that, a solution needs to be found for how 2 million tonnes of cement will be available annually to the Swedish construction industry. As an example of what this is all about in the construction industry, I can take the infrastructure project Västlänken in the Gothenburg area, where I come from. When it is to be built, 4 1⁄2 tonnes of cement and lime per running metre of road bank are needed only to stabilise the land and reduce the risk of formations in the clay. In addition, there will be bridges, viaducts and other things to be cast. Characteristic of this is that special requirements are imposed on the composition, which cannot easily be met with imported raw material. The question then is: will imports solve the problem of plant cement? The answer is no. Then my question to the Government is: what measures does the government intend to take now that there are another eight months?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-236	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should like to say that the question that has just been asked was about the acute lack of cement that may arise. I would also like to emphasise that this situation has not arisen as a result of a government decision – or for that matter on the part of the Green Party. In the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal's rejection decision, it is very clear that the ground for rejection was that the applicant, i.e. Cementa, did not show sufficiently clearly what the impact of the activity on the body of groundwater is. As the honourable Member and the President are certainly well aware, I cannot comment on the legal considerations on which the decision of the Land and the Environment Court is based, nor can I comment on an ongoing legal process. But we can all agree that the situation that has arisen is very serious. Lime mining at Slite accounts for 60 – 75 per cent of Sweden's cement production. The situation that has arisen and the halt that threatens production have exposed a serious vulnerability in central parts of the civil engineering sector. A possible halt could have major societal consequences and could create surges into several sectors of society. This is also the reason why the government announced at a press conference on 10 August that it is preparing a temporary and limited-term amendment of the environmental code that will allow the government to decide on continued supply and water activities within the framework of already granted permits for a limited period of time. The government therefore does not enter into the review under the environmental code in court, but does make a change that makes it possible to extend the time that Cementa has to break the volume within the given permit. This is what was referred earlier this week. It aims, in particular, at remedying the emergency situation, but nobody should underscore the fact that a great effort will be required from different stakeholders to reduce vulnerability both in the short and long term. In the long term – we also need to bring this with us – we need to strengthen society's resilience to vulnerabilities in both raw material supply and strategic access to inputs. This has pointed out what it means when such a central sector of society is completely dependent on a single facility. It creates an enormous vulnerability to a variety of situations that could arise. At the same time, we have an important task in ensuring safe water supply. The report presented by the IPCC in August underlines the urgency of the climate issue and the need for rapid action to reduce emissions globally. The industry has a roadmap for conversion, for less dependence and for better differentiation of different building materials. Now different parts of society will need to hook arms to speed up that transition. We in the government have announced that we will go forward with several measures to contribute to this transition. This will involve efforts to stimulate recycling and recycling, stimulate innovation and research, and also to secure water supply. But it will be a very serious situation. All parts of society need to be helped to solve the situation that has arisen and, at the same time, reduce the enormous vulnerability that has been exposed when an entire sector is so dependent on a single plant in Sweden. Here we have a job ahead of us to do in the relatively short time left.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-242	Madam President, I would like My aim was not to evaluate in any way the Court's review – it is certainly right and correct on the basis of the evidence to be considered – but to stress the seriousness of the situation. I understand that Märta Stenevi does, too. But it is the measures that are needed now, and my question concerns them. For those who import cement, there are limited opportunities to increase from today's 15 percent imports. Another couple of three percent it may be possible to import. The plants that exist abroad are already in the ceiling of their capacity and of course have a limited interest in providing Sweden with cement, while they have their own needs to fill. We are talking about the facilities in the Baltic countries, for example. There is still North Africa, Turkey and China. In addition to logistical difficulties and costs, we then have a significant climate impact that we cannot influence. One might wonder how we achieve our climate goals by exporting emissions from mining and transport, not to mention the shortcomings in making oneself dependent on China in the way many African states have become. The fact that Sweden as a small country has become dependent on the way the Government describes a commodity, a supplier and a single quarry is certainly a problem. However, compared to dependence on imports from countries that take lightly on the environment, climate and human rights, it should be manageable. The quarries in Slite had access to port and so far mineable assets had been a better option every day of the week, provided that all aspects of the environmental test could be accepted. Madam President, I would like I agree that research and development are important when it comes to recycling and new materials. This is also happening today. But even here there are obstacles. So-called construction mountain, rock masses that are left over when you blow up tunnels, for example, are now classified as waste and may not be used as filling in cement production. My point with this debate is not to criticise the Council of State for not realizing the seriousness but to emphasise that we should not take too lightly the effects of the cement shortage that arises, either now or later. This is something that will be a problem for a very long time. Three of the furniture companies are concerned about how their members are affected by the fact that building foundations and elevator shafts will not be able to be cast at the same rate as before and that it is done at a higher cost. The mining industry is concerned about how the ore of fossil-free steel can be broken without making new passages and shafts in the mines. Wind farms at sea and on land will not be able to be built without foundations in concrete. And as has been pointed out, the Swedish Transport Administration should be more concerned that the lack of availability of plant cement will stop all new construction until we have an import of cement that meets the requirements. Back to the West Link. We do not want to see a dug-up city with continued traffic chaos because for a very long time one of Sweden's most important infrastructure projects will not be completed. Märta Stenevi and her colleagues are currently preparing a budget. It includes setting targets for housing construction that should be possible to follow up. Let me rephrase the question to deal with it: how does the cement shortage, which will be acute next autumn, affect construction and as a result of that construction objectives? What measures will the government be able to take to maintain the building act? Or will the building targets be adapted to what is known about the effect on housing building of the lack of building materials in the coming years?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-251	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying, and really underlining, that I am not taking this situation lightly in any way. Even when we talk about wood construction it is based on that we have foundation with concrete. Above all, this is, of course, a major risk for the construction sector and for infrastructure projects. I am convinced that many companies are extremely worried. I am also in dialogue with the industry. We have already held it on a number of occasions, and we have several such meetings planned in the future – precisely to find the way forward and to understand what it takes to keep up the building act in the situation we are in. If I were to think back, I would have liked to have felt these concerns earlier and that we had had a greater awareness, a greater resilience and a better risk management of the situation. I wish it had been in the entire business community concerned. Clearly, it is not an unknown situation that the permit expired, nor is it an unknown situation that a trial is under way. I think this must be seen as a wake-up call for how to avoid addiction. As the honourable Member points out, no valet of us would be switching a dependency on a plant in Sweden to a dependence on imports from China. The question then is what is required. To begin with, the concrete we are going to use must be used for the right things. Today we have construction where we do not have good alternatives to concrete. But we also have in Sweden a very large use of concrete compared to some other countries and a great opportunity to do conversions. As I said, work is under way to speed up the process of more sustainable construction. We have a great opportunity to develop a stronger regulatory framework that also steers towards more sustainable materials. We can promote increased recycling and recycling. We can also promote new alternatives to cement. There are already alternatives that can be used today and the possibility of obtaining more material needs to be explored more quickly. We can drive state actors to take the lead in the development towards more sustainable, resource efficient and circular construction. We have made the assessment that it will be important to promote increased wood construction. We have introduced climate declaration requirements, and we are now also looking further at whether we can speed up the introduction of limit values to stimulate innovation and the development of new materials. There are also a number of studies that go hand in hand with these promotions. Not least, I would like to take this opportunity to point out the studies on how to use construction mountains and other excavation masses in a way that can contribute to greater sustainability and greater circularity. This is a work that has been started for some time. There are studies on both climate law and environmental testing and how the processes should work. But this also applies to trial processes and regulations for the sustainable supply of metals and minerals. So there is a lot of work going on at many ends. But I would like to emphasise again that this will be a situation that needs to be resolved with common forces from several parts of society, because we are facing a very problematic situation and a short time to change. It will take a lot of creativity and will from many parts of the sector to move forward on this issue.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-261	Mrs. Old President! It is when the Government describes the options that exist and when she in some way sounds suggest that Sweden is a country that consumes a lot of cement that I get a little worried. We know what needs we have for cement. We agree that we want to increase the construction of wood. But that does not mean that we are completely independent of a commodity such as cement and lime. I mentioned the West Link as a major infrastructure project. We both agree that we should build new main roads in Sweden. It is clear that only such a project, given that 4 1⁄2 tons of cement is used to stabilize in clay, will also require this building material in quite large quantities for it to be implemented. We will maintain this dependence for a very long time, completely independent of what the Government says about increasing re-use or making itself less dependent on cement. I pointed out earlier that there are great advantages to the place where lime has been broken and will be mined for another eight months in view of port availability and other things. This makes this place suitable. As an alternative to relying on more or less dubious states, especially China, in imports, it should be an option that is better. We have to deal with a situation where, in eight months' time, we'll be out of cement again. It takes three to five years to make a new application for Cementa, if it is Slite it is, and then one must hope that there is no appeal along the way. In any case, there will be a building crisis. The government is responsible for ensuring that housing construction does not slow down now that there is a housing shortage in 212 of the country's 290 municipalities. The government is guilty of the answer.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-267	Mrs. Old President! I shall begin by perhaps state the obvious and say: to be independent and to reduce dependence is, as the honourable Member is certainly very aware, two different things. We will not be able to make ourselves independent of cement in the foreseeable future, but we have an enormous task in making ourselves less dependent on an individual input, and fast. We are in the midst of a climate crisis. The need for rapid action to reduce emissions is here and now. The construction sector accounts for one fifth of our domestic emissions. It is high time and a good opportunity to also move from words to action on this issue. In order to both strengthen society's resilience to raw materials supply in the construction sector and promote sustainability in the construction sector, the transition to more resource efficient or alternative building materials needs to be accelerated. The government will come back with measures, as has been announced. For the foreseeable future, cement will be needed in certain buildings and structures, but we must now ensure that cement is used where it is most useful. The same is true of the forest: Trees make more climate benefits in houses than when we chip down and burn them. If we are to manage to live within the boundaries of the planet – which we must – we must use the finite natural resources that exist in a smart and efficient way. We need more circularity, not least in the construction sector. We must manage both the construction of new homes, the supply of water and a system that does not depend on either individual installations or foreign states. That is the big task that we now have quite a short time to try to solve.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-271	Mrs. Old President! Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me what constitutes an acceptable level of processing time at Lantmäteriet in my opinion and the government and what measures I and the government take to ensure that Lantmäteriet has the ability to handle matters within this time. It is important to be able to meet society's and citizens' needs as well as the societal challenges we face, including the need for more housing. Therefore, it is important that we in Sweden have a property building business that is uniform, legally secure and efficient. However, it is not appropriate for me or the government to define what is an acceptable duration of proceedings. The processing of property formation matters is carried out on the basis of property law legislation. It is important to point out that the procedure does not consist of pure administration but of extensive judicial investigation, where different property law conditions are to be clarified, measurement and mapping measures are to be implemented and border conflicts or other conflicts may need to be resolved. This work is important and necessary in order to maintain safe ownership of land and a reliable land register, which in turn is a prerequisite for a functioning economy. In 2018, Lantmäteriet was commissioned to develop a new monitoring system for the processing times within the property development business. Today, activities are monitored in seven different categories of case. On the basis of the annual report, the average processing time has been shortened into five out of seven categories of case. In addition, in Lantmäteriet's latest tertiary report for 2021, they report further reduced processing times within all of the seven categories of cases, which is very gratifying. It is of course important that the processing times in the property building business are not unduly long, but it is also gratifying to note that the government and Lantmäteriet's actions have had a positive effect on overcoming the long processing times.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-276	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It may well be said that it is a strikingly satisfied Minister for Housing who leaves this answer, despite the fact that the situation with the National Surveying Authority in Sweden today is deeply unsatisfactory. Looking at the same annual report that the Minister refers to in his reply, it can be noted that the processing time for private housing construction from 2016 to 2020 has increased from 30 to 34 weeks. In the area of public service, it has gone from 88 to 122 weeks during the same time. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. Over the past 30 years, we have undergone a great digitization throughout society. It should reasonably also include Lantmäteriet– I know that it covers Lantmäteriet. Nevertheless, a surveying operation today costs four times more in real terms than it did in 1990. And the processing times are even longer. What does our people get for the money when they pay for a survey? The Government must reasonably be able to respond to this. It is, of course, totally unsatisfactory that we have such long processing times. I asked a question in the interpellation, but I ask it again because I did not receive an answer: what does the Minister think is satisfactory processing times? What is an acceptable level? There is another issue in this that is relevant. When we have such a dysfunctional surveying authority as we obviously have, I wonder: Why does the government not accommodate those municipalities that want to start their own surveying authorities? This is not done despite the fact that the processing times of the state surveying authority are as long as they are today. In a previous answer to that question, the Minister said that it is due to the lack of competence of the applicant municipalities. But the strange thing about this argument is that the government, when it comes to examining whether the required competence exists, asks a referral body, and that is the state surveying authority. As you ask, you get answers, you feel a little bit. The state surveying authority obviously does not want more competition in its activities. Mrs. Old President! This is a deeply unsatisfactory relationship. The municipalities that are currently struggling with long processing times, which are a brake on development, are not in a position to start new surveying authorities because the government almost invariably says no to them. Seven out of eight cases have been refused since 2014 to the establishment of new municipal surveying authorities, which could strengthen competition and improve the conditions for reducing processing times.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-283	Mrs. Old President! I am stepping into this debate because I think this is an urgent issue. This is how – you can see if you read Lantmäteriet's own annual report – that Lantmäteriet's board is not as satisfied as the Government is with Lantmäteriet's goal achievement. They consider that the level is inadequate – they themselves write – and that you need to strengthen your ability to shorten processing times. They write: Uncertainty in processing time and high maintenance costs is a criticism that reaches Lantmäteriet. But that criticism obviously does not reach the government. The government should take on board Lantmäteriet's self-criticism. They report in figures the processing times in most cases of up to and over a year, and that is not satisfactory. When it comes to private housing, times have not been shortened, but rather increased to 34 weeks in recent years. And such a simple thing as adjusting a percentage in a road confluence, where all shareholders agree on how it should be divided, according to Lantmäteriet can take over 90 weeks. Without being the legal owner of a property you have bought and paid for, you cannot take out loans in a bank to make the necessary investments. To have to wait a year for the deed means that you may miss a tourist season if you are planning to rent. You cannot build stables and halls for the animals and machines you have acquired when you are modernising the farm you have just bought. The renovation of the desert house, which you have found, will not happen during the summer as you had planned. Therefore, it continues to rain in. There is a lot of legal work with measurement and mapping measures, says the Government. And it takes time when it is done in one place by administrators who are already overloaded. Lantmäteriet's work on digitalisation is good and necessary. It should also be able to increase the Authority's own efficiency and make it possible to decentralise management activities to municipalities, as mentioned earlier by Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, or to private companies with a retained responsibility for government. It may be that the government does not now set an acceptable level of processing times, but we do, in fact, do so when it comes to the treatment of building permits by municipalities that may not take longer than ten weeks. A plan statement shall not take more than four months. This is also the case with regard to the county boards' obligation to deal with appeals. Then you can set goals and make demands on authorities and municipalities. But when it comes to Lantmäteriet, it allows years and years for the agency to delay the construction and development of society in the way they describe themselves in their annual report. This is what – and this has been the case for a long time – is the second major obstacle to housing construction: Lantmäteriet's long processing times. This is one thing that we have been discussing for many years. It is surprising, then, that despite the marginal reduction in processing times, it is still a major problem with Lantmäteriet. I think it would be nice if the government could make a little higher demands on its authority and also set some kind of target picture as to how long the processing times should be allowed to be.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-291	Mrs. Old President! I should like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the question of the handling times of the Land Survey is again open to debate in this House and that the efficiency of the administration is of the utmost importance. I should also like to emphasise that the length of proceedings is not satisfactory. But it is gratifying when we see that the processing times are moving in the right direction in five out of seven areas and that the tertiary report for 2021 indicates that even in the last two areas we are now starting to get the processing times in order. I hope that trend will last. One suggestion that has been raised by the opposition on several occasions is to allow more municipalities to set up surveying authorities. They are assessed on a case-by-case basis. There are fundamental requirements in the legislation on municipal surveying authorities, which is based on the ability to carry out a legally secure and reliable exercise of authority, because that is what this is all about. In cases where the Government has rejected the applications, it has been that it makes the assessment that there is too little activity to be able to maintain this. We also see that Statskontoret has pointed out, among other things, that it is precisely the shared responsibility between the state and the municipality and the lock-in of personnel and resources that it entails that partly contributes to the long processing times. We simply do not see today that it is an end in itself to create more municipal surveying authorities or to further fragment that activity. We do not see that this would mean that more surveyors would be trained or become active. However, these must be tested at any given time, and that is also how it is done. In the short term, work needs to continue to focus on strengthening and accelerating the positive developments that have nevertheless begun. In the longer term, the possibilities of digitalisation will also need to be used to improve the efficiency of building formation. Lantmäteriet has previously made estimates that increased digitalisation can mean possible time savings of about 5 to 10 hours per case in effective processing time. This should be seen in relation to Statskontoret's statement that the effective processing time for Lantmäteriet's most common case types on average corresponds to one week's work, i.e. about 40 hours. There are therefore considerable savings to be made on the simpler cases. Digitalisation is the single factor with the greatest potential to lead to long-term and sustainable efficiency improvements. At the same time, we have added more training places in order to also have better access to surveyors in the longer term and thereby solve what is a major factor in this problem, namely the lack of competent surveyors who can carry out the work.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-299	Mrs. Old President! The fact is, therefore, that it is the same moment that will be carried out at the surveying ceremony today as it was when the Property Forming Act entered into force in 1972. Then all the work was done manually. You had to hit books and dig into archives. Today this is digitised, but despite this, the execution costs four times more in real terms and takes longer. That is something that is not right here, and the Minister's only point on that is that it is good that developments are moving in the right direction. But can you even say that it does when it's so marginal? As I just explained, the average processing time for private housing has increased by four weeks from 2016 to 2020 and for public services from 88 to 122 weeks. The Minister then says that it would contribute to the fragmentation of the activity of allowing the municipality to carry out this task. Is it the Minister's view of the 39 existing municipal surveying authorities today that they fragment the surveying activities? My view is that they make a huge contribution to making society work in the parts where they operate. The minister says it's for small units. But this may also be due to the fact that it is currently prohibited for a municipal surveying authority to deal with outside its own municipality. We Moderates have proposed that this ban be lifted, i.e. that a municipal surveying authority should be able to carry out surveying operations in other municipalities as well in order to strengthen competition. What does the Minister think about this? Will the Minister take the initiative for such a change of law? This could contribute to the creation of larger municipal units. This also boils down to the fact that it is regulated by law how a survey work should be done and look. It will then be easy to blame that the small municipalities, just because they are small entities, would not have the necessary competence. But they do dimension their surveying authorities based on the amount of work they perceive they will have in the small town or in the small municipality? A far more effective way than simply going to the state surveying authority and asking what it thinks about getting more competition from more municipal surveying authorities would also be to make sure that, if one is concerned about the competence of the municipal surveying service, there is proper supervision. It will be a moment 22 when the government constantly says no, unfortunately, you must not start surveying because we do not think you have the necessary competence. It becomes impossible to prove such a thing because the government is constantly leaning on only one consultation body, and that is the state surveying authority. This is deeply unsatisfactory, and the government clearly has no plan to overcome this. That is regrettable.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-306	Mrs. Old President! I am not going to use my two minutes; I jumped into this debate because it took place and because I have put a similar written question to Minister Stenevi, whom I hope she will respond somewhat more clearly than has been done in this debate. But we'll have to get back to that then. I just want to underline what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin says about municipal surveying. It is remarkable that we have a business that works mainly well but that the government is not interested in further developing. Another aspect on the whole is the difficulties. We are talking about training surveyors – yes, but these surveyors are going to take employment somewhere, and then it is in one place in Sweden, in Gävle. I assume that if there were conditions to take a job as a newly trained surveyor in their municipality of residence, or near the place where they have trained, it could be a way of increasing the capacity at Lantmäteriet. The second important and positive development is Lantmäteriet's work with open geodata and the initiative on digitalisation. I find it difficult to see that an authority that is so far at the forefront of digitalisation, is such an example and provides such support to the municipalities should not be able to use this competence to improve their own work capacity and in this way also support municipal surveying or other surveying agencies that get the authority's permission to operate under its supervision. Both the Christian Democrats and the Moderates and, above all, the Center Party have many suggestions in this area, and we will come back to that in Parliament's treatment of motions from the general period of exercise a little later on. Once again, it will also be interesting to see how the government describes Lantmäteriet's activities in the budget that we will be able to share in a little while.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-311	Mrs. Old President! I can start with a brief background. Since Statskontoret presented its report Shared responsibility for property development, the Government has, among other things, replaced the Board and the Director General, provided funds to Uppsala University to open a new surveyor training and also commissioned Lantmäteriet to improve the monitoring of operations and produce analyses of the performance of operations. Until they are satisfactory, it is quite right that this is also reflected in the annual report. For its part, Lantmäteriet has taken measures to improve the efficiency of its staff, change its working methods, continuously train its staff and also started a major project to develop new management support. I think I have to maintain that it has produced results. We're heading in the right direction. The annual report showed that the average processing time has been shortened in five out of seven categories of cases, and in the very latest tertiary report from Lantmäteriet they also report further reduced processing times in all of the seven categories of cases. Today there is a need to hold two balls in the air. On the one hand, none of us are satisfied with the processing times. On the other hand, things are moving in the right direction, and we need to ensure that developments continue. With regard to the municipal surveying authorities, I would like to repeat once again that each application is dealt with on the basis of its conditions. It is not a question of starting to work on the dossiers in order to acquire competence, but of having a large enough business to be able to have so many employees that you can maintain legal certainty even when, for example, there are very large, complex cases. Then you should still be able to have that procedure rolling. That is also what is being tested, and that is very clear in the legislation. We are very likely to debate this again, until we see that progress has come to the point that we have had further reductions in the length of proceedings or until we see that new measures will be needed.
i-df713b24e0d64a01-317	Mrs. Old President! First of all, I note that the Government did not answer my question as to whether it is appropriate to comply with the moderate proposal to allow municipal surveying authorities to deal with outside their own municipal borders. It would have been a good clarification, and I think it is one of the components to further strengthen the conditions for municipal surveying activities. Then we have moderate proposals regarding what Ola Johansson was also talking about, namely the need to be able to procure more services and bring private actors into various parts of the surveying process, although the actual execution decision is still made by a municipal or state surveying authority. If there were better legal possibilities for this, it could be a way of having a more flexible size of the municipal surveying organisation. Finally, the question remains after this debate: what does the government intend to do in concrete terms? We Moderates will spend 50 million more than the government on surveying authorities. We have a number of proposals to strengthen the municipal surveying authorities, and the government is constantly sliding away from the question why it is so often said no. Statskontoret has also said that the government's new practice on these issues is not supported by law. So the question is: does the government intend to come back with a bill that makes it even more difficult to form municipal surveying authorities?
i-df713b24e0d64a01-321	Mrs. Old President! Sweden must have a real estate development business that works efficiently and equally throughout the country. We are very much in agreement on that. Now we are seeing a development in which we are about to reduce the processing times in the proceedings to reasonable levels, and this also shows the figures in Lantmäteriet's reports – no matter what is presented in the debate here. In addition to what the government and Lantmäteriet have done and which I have already described, extensive work is ongoing to digitise the urban building process, and the building of real estate is part of it. It is important that real estate formation is better at exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation within its own processes and that it is supported and integrated with the entire rest of the building process in order for us to have a more efficient whole. However, there is also reason to believe that the picture of what hinders and restricts the construction of small houses is more complex than just a matter of an authority's processing times. For example, it has recently been reported in the media that several small house manufacturers find it difficult to deliver small houses at the pace that customers demand, and in Boverket's latest housing market survey municipalities mainly identify three major barriers to housing construction: high production costs, lack of a detailed plan of attractive land and difficulties for private individuals to obtain loans. In this context, it may be relevant to point out that it is the municipality that decides and plans for land and water use in its municipality and that, in some cases, land for the construction of small houses competes with land for other purposes. My point is that we have a community building process that needs to stick together in all its parts. Lantmäteriet's processing times are a piece of the puzzle in this, and the one we are going to work with – but we must also constantly work with the whole in order to have an effective community-building process and a high level of housing construction.
