i-674993b7cc3cdc32-0	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Green Party in the report, but for the time to come, I only call for reservation 3 in the part of the bill dealing with the landlord's right of dismissal. Now we have a bitter taste of what the blue-brown government option wants to pursue in politics. And after today's debate on strengthening the protection of tenants, it will be clear that this government option is definitely not on the side of tenants. We are here today to debate our proposal to strengthen the protection of tenants. The Red-Green Government proposal contains a number of good proposals and measures that together will strengthen the position of tenants and make it easier for landlords in certain situations. Unfortunately, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals or the Center Party do not want to strengthen the protection of tenants. That is why some of the Government's proposals in this area will fall into today's vote. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to explain more precisely why I believe that the proposals for the new rent after renovation to be phased into a more relaxed tempo and to remove the possibility for a landlord who is a private person to terminate a tenancy agreement prematurely are important. Containers full of torn-out windows and kitchens, tenants who can't afford to stay after their apartment has been renovated, cosmetic renovations that raise rents and make the cheap rentals only fewer – most people appreciate having a nice home, but large renovations also cause problems for both people and the environment. On Instagram the account Renovation collapse has grown big. The account illustrates the widespread problem of unnecessary and short-term renovations. The picture after picture shows disjointed working kitchens and windows. The question we need to ask ourselves is what drives these renovations. I'm afraid the answer is money. It is of course always good to wear-out apartments are renovated, and for something to last for a long time maintenance is required. But we see that there is a major problem with extensive and primarily cosmetic renovations that provide the basis for increasing rent being put into systems. The disposal of materials before they are end-of-life is also a waste of resources that harm the environment and the climate. There is a large renovation debt, not least among the apartments built in the time of the million-dollar programme. But we need to think about how renovations should be made and how they affect tenants. Does the entire kitchen really have to be replaced, or could it stand for another decade if it received maintenance? The problem of so-called renovation bills has been highlighted more and more, i.e. that landlords are renovating so much that tenants cannot afford to move back after the renovation. But the renovations made between tenants also cause problems. When public utility rentals with neglected maintenance have been purchased by private operators, extensive renovation is often carried out when tenants are replaced. And while cosmetic renovations are being carried out, renovations that are actually needed but cannot generate higher rent, such as stem change and energy efficiency, are unfortunately being pushed to the future. In addition, concept renovations and renovation calculations reduce the range of cheaper rental apartments and make the situation uncertain for tenants. Therefore, the protection of tenants needs to be strengthened, and it is therefore extremely unfortunate that our proposal that the new rent after renovation can be phased into a calmer pace does not win support in the Riksdag. Such a proposal would reduce the risk of shock increases in rents after renovations, which hit tenants with lower incomes extra hard. Madam President, I would like The bill that we are debating today also proposes to remove the possibility for a landlord who is a private person to terminate a tenancy agreement prematurely. The housing shortage has increased the focus on how private individuals provide apartments to other private individuals. This part of the housing market actually has an important role to play as a complement to the ordinary rental market. However, it is important in this context that there is a balance between, on the one hand, a simple regulatory framework for private rental and, on the other hand, the need for protection for tenants. According to the Private Rental Act as it stands today, the landlord has the right to terminate a fixed-term rental agreement prematurely without giving any reasons. The fact that the landlord can terminate the contract at any time during the rental period means that an agreed rental period is of little importance. This makes the accommodation unsafe and can put the tenant in an extremely difficult situation. The government wants to counteract this with its legislative proposal, but that proposal also seems to fall into the vote later today. I can also say that all the consultation bodies support or do not object to the investigation's proposal in the part to remove the landlord's right to terminate a tenancy agreement prematurely. It is therefore unfortunate that a majority in Parliament does not want to strengthen the protection of tenants who rent from a private individual. Madam President, I would like The proposal to strengthen the protection of tenants in the event of the destruction of housing seems to me to be welcome enough to go through today's vote. For me, this is a very important proposal to strengthen the protection of tenants in acute and vulnerable situations. The change we propose is that when a rental agreement for a residential apartment expires due to the destruction of the apartment, for example in the event of a fire, the landlord will offer the tenant a new rental agreement. This is a very important measure, especially if the apartment, for example, burns up. The burden this imposes on the vast majority of landlords in the situation that occurs is negligible while the value for the tenant can be very large. Madam President, I would like Me and the Green Party want to get to the problems of unnecessary renovations that raise rent and build garbage. We want to give tenants greater influence in renovations. In order to safeguard low rental levels, tenants need to have more influence in renovations and be able to influence their housing and housing costs to a greater extent. We also want to give property owners the opportunity to save tax-free. Property owners should be given the opportunity to set aside funds for future renovations in so-called tax-free maintenance funds. We want to tighten up the housing responsibility of municipalities. The large public goods sales made around 2010 have weakened the commons of several municipalities, and now we see the consequences also in stocks that need renovation. We want to see a developed support for energy efficiency to be able to renovate and energy-efficient the stock that really needs it most. It is painfully clear that M, SD and KD but also C and L are not on the side of tenants. Today, the housing situation is uncertain for many people, and tenants are often at risk of being squeezed. The Red Green Government has therefore taken the initiative with this proposal to improve the situation for Sweden's tenants, and this is needed. Many of those applying for housing today are referred to the renting of private individuals. Therefore, it would have been very welcome to have strengthened the protection of these tenants as well. But that does not seem to be the case. For us in the Green Party, it goes without saying that everyone has the right to safe housing. It's a question of justice. We will therefore continue to fight to strengthen the position of tenants and to enable more people to get their first rental contract.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-26	Madam President, I would like I would like to say, of course, that I support all of our proposals in the report, but for time, I am only in favour of the reservation on the introduction of rents. At 4.48 the alarm came. It was a Tuesday morning, and a bomb had exploded in Annedal, Gothenburg. The explosion caused great damage to a rental property, and many people were badly injured. Fortunately, no one lost their lives. As I said, material damage was enormous, and one could be likened the place to a war zone. Lots of apartments were destroyed. In addition to the material things, however, something further disappeared for the tenants who had their apartments destroyed, namely, their possession protection. That is how the law works today. If your apartment is destroyed, without your own fault, you lose the right to your home. If the fire devours your apartment, as happened in Gävle in the near future and in Enköping a few years ago, you become homeless in the sense of the law. Note well – you have not done anything wrong, but your right to your home is still disappearing. That it is in this way is completely up the walls. Innocent people should not be punished. In addition, the public has a constitutional obligation to ensure the right to safe housing. It is therefore gratifying to note that this will change from the turn of the year. Thanks to the government bill, you will get possession protection if the apartment is destroyed – of course not if you destroy it yourself, if someone is sitting at home thinking about it. The law comes because the government acts freely, without any fetters from right parties. The government is therefore making further proposals. The government wants rental increases that take place during renovation to be escalated a little slower and a little more humane for a little longer period. There was a change in this legislation in 2002, and the idea was to improve protection. But the legislation has not provided this protection; it has not been as good as thought. Therefore, according to practice, large rent increases have been made already in the first year, and the phase-in or roll-in often takes place in just three years. That is also why the concept of renov counting has become part of our language. People get to leave their homes – that's the hard reality when it's done for quick phase-in of the rents. To an outside viewer this feels completely up the walls and completely wrong. Of course you should have the right to your home. But people get to move because the economy doesn't last. In this context, it is interesting that the argument of the Right when abolishing the property tax a number of years ago was that for economic reasons no one would have to leave house and home. That the description was not correct, we can leave it at that; the argument was such. Then it was about the property. Then it was a problem that people were allowed to walk from house and home. Now it's about tenants. Then, according to the right, it is no problem that economic changes allow people to walk from house and home. Madam President, I would like During the debate last summer, the party leader of the Swedish Democrats repeatedly said that the Swedish Democrats did not want to raise rents for the people by the least margin. The government also fell in fact after a motion of censure from the Swedish Democrats on this particular issue. There were no actual government proposals – there were no such proposals on the table. But now there are actual proposals on the table. Now is the time of trial. And then it is interesting to see the real priority of the Swedish Democrats. When the interest of tenants is to be protected and tenants are to be protected from heavy rent increases, the Swedish Democrats vote against these proposals. They're voting against protecting the tenants. Now, I'm sure someone's thinking that they didn't lower the proposal on possession protection in the event of a wrecked apartment. But it's not that simple. Anyone who reads the Swedish Democrats' motion sees that the Swedish Democrats really want to reject the whole proposal. Nothing would go through. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the victims of the bomb in Gothenburg to lose their seizure protection. But they are so keen to cooperate with the Moderates, and so they primarily vote for their own product and, secondly, for the Moderates. The Moderates want to exempt tenants in tenant-owner associations from the right to property protection. It is often these tenants who are most vulnerable because they often live there after conversions. For economic reasons, many have not been able to enter the right-of-occupancy market. According to the Moderates, they should not have possession protection if the apartment is destroyed, and this is what the Swedish Democrats think is the second best thing after completely rejecting the proposal. In addition, the Swedish Democrats are voting against a third proposal. The Government proposes that people who rent housing from a private person should not be able to be made redundant if they have a fixed-term contract. Today, a one-year contract can be signed between two parties, and after a month, the renter thinks it was nothing. Then you have three months to move out, even though there is a signed one-year contract at the bottom. This is totally unreasonable, I think. It is also called in legal language, pacta sunt servanda, agreement is to be held. However, according to M and SD, the supplement should be a non tenentibus, not for tenants. I find it very difficult to understand why tenants, who in many cases are already in a vulnerable position, should not feel the security to be able to stay for a term of contract. I really don't understand it. That M thinks so does not surprise me; I understand that. But the fact that the Swedish Democrats are doing this is only another proof that it is the economic elite that is constantly being protected. But I'll end with one thing at least we agree on. Today's legislation on periodic penalty payments for rogue landlords does not work as well as it is intended. The government can state this and therefore proposes that better and tougher rules should simply be introduced. This is a very long-awaited tool, because this has to do with social dumping. Perhaps that is also why the Swedish Democrats are joining. In my constituency, at home in Helsingborg and the surrounding area, the Swedish Democrats run three municipalities, and social dumping is a major problem there. Three Swedish democratic councillors sit there and think that this is a problem, and that is probably why the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group does not dare to resist but says: We must agree to this, because otherwise there will be problems in the party. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the Government's proposal is a major step in the right direction to strengthen the protection of tenants. The fact that, after many decades of struggle by the Tenants' Association, among others, we finally get possession protection in the event of a ruined apartment is great and worth celebrating, especially for all the people who in the future are affected by unforeseen disasters. It is very important that we have more tools to combat social dumping. It is extremely good, and it is only tragic that some municipalities are engaged in this. Housing is even being torn down around our country because municipalities are afraid of social dumping. We can't do that for a lot of reasons. It has also been made clear which side the different parties are on. Who is in favour of tenants' rights, and who is against them? Who chooses to run the business of the financial elite every time they get the opportunity, and who is on the side of ordinary people? It's amazing – I really want to press it – that such a small proposal for a slightly more humane introduction of rents in renovations should fall here. It is an understatement of all the parties in this House who claim to stand for security – that is the only thing some of them talk about – that they choose to put people in greater insecurity and drive people out of their homes. According to the Constitution, housing is a joint responsibility. It is part of the general welfare. We have a responsibility to secure the right to it. Let's do it. We stand for it. The right doesn't. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-46	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with paraphrase the former Prime Minister Göran Persson in connection with the speeches so far in this debate: it is blowing up the election movement, and it is clearly Emma Hult and Ola Möller who have been given the responsibility to drag the dung spreader around. It is obscene, Madam President, that there are frequent indications from this pulpit that parts of the opposition would be associated with Nazism, because that is what brown means. Brown has only one political significance. This is nonsense, and I am ashamed to have to hear it from the speaker's seat in our Parliament. Madam President, I would like If you only value legislation on the basis of its supposed intentions and not on the basis of its effect, you are a populist. It is a political poser who is not interested in the reality of the legislation. And this debate is an example of this very thing. There is, of course, no one in this House, I dare say, who is interested in making life miserable for the country's tenants. On the contrary, I believe that we all agree that rental right has an important function in the housing market and should be an attractive accommodation option. But there must also be conditions for owning and renting rents. If this is not done, the rental right as an alternative to housing will not remain, and the conditions for those living in rental apartments will be substantially worse. Madam President, I would like There is always someone who has to take the bill for the overall regulation of our society, and when it comes to the purchase of a service or a product, it is usually the final consumer who may do so in one way or another. If we were to further extend the possibility of introducing so-called stepping-up rules, that is to say that it should take longer for a landlord to get paid for the investments made in the property, we risk ending up in a situation where the necessary investments are not made. It is estimated that the total maintenance debt and the renovation debt only in the public interest amount to 165 billion. If we were to update the whole public good to the energy performance that we are demanding today in the case of new construction, it would cost 500 billion. We are not pretending about these figures in this debate. Who's going to do the armaments? Of course, in all material respects they are private landlords, but then there must also be reasonable conditions for them to do so. And as has already been said, there are already conditions for stepping up a new rent. When you listen to the two previous speeches here in the debate you get the impression that renovations are something that is done because the landlord thinks it is fun. But it is a long-term perspective on taking care of a property, not only for the current tenant, but for the property to be in place for maybe a hundred years. If you do as we have done in many parts of the public good stock and do not renovate and do maintenance continuously, then you come to a point where the apartments are at risk of being destroyed. And now the government side wants us to put ourselves in a situation where fewer landlords are prepared to take the step of renovating. It is a waste of social resources, because it means that apartments are at risk of being in such a bad condition that they cannot be used. Madam President, I would like I think this raises a further question: what do we want the rental right to be? Is it just supposed to be the worst alternative in the housing market? For that is what the red-greens really argue for here when they constantly say that every renovation that is done is unnecessary. It is said that functioning kitchens are replaced. Yes, what is the definition of a functioning kitchen? Is it the standard that was okay in the 1970s that will continue to apply in the future? If the rental right is to be an attractive accommodation option, it is clear that there needs to be different types of rental apartments. There need to be different types of standard and different levels of standard. But this is what the present government wants to do by means of a populist proposal. It is therefore gratifying that we reject that part of the proposal. It shouldn't be taken away because we don't care about tenants. Of course we do. We want everyone living in a rental apartment in Sweden to have good and predictable conditions. That is precisely why we support the rules on stairways that exist today. Let me also mention something about the possibility of early termination of private rental contracts. It is also part of the bill that we reject. I think there is a broad consensus that it is good that people who have extra space at home can rent out some of their housing under simple forms. Making the same demands on private individuals as on landlords will only lead to one thing, namely that fewer individuals want to rent out parts of their homes. Renting out a part of your home is associated with risk-taking if you do not know that you can get out of the rental relationship within a foreseeable time. But of course it shouldn't be possible to do it overnight. We are talking about a three-month notice period. But the only effect of the proposal made by the government here is that fewer people will want to rent out their private homes. If so, what have we won? And when it comes to the question of compensation contracts – this is what it is about when an apartment is completely destroyed or burned – we can see that the right of possession has fallen because the apartment does not exist. But we are behind the part of the bill that relates to the obligation for large landlords to then offer priority in the queue. This is, of course, what it is really about. On the other hand, we find it totally unreasonable to impose the same requirements on the housing associations that may have one or two apartments for rent. What is the situation if an apartment is destroyed? After all, it becomes almost impossible for a tenant-owners' association to provide a new rental apartment. That is why, Madam President, in our reservation we propose a sharp change of law that could already come into force here and now. I would like to support our reservation 5 in this regard. With this, Madam President, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved in the parts relating to the rejection of the proposal on the amended stepping-up and private renting rules and to our reservation 5.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-62	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is here talking about the tenants being something that the Moderates prioritise and that it will be possible to renovate. But then the question is: Why do the Moderates always want to abolish all support for the tenants? Renovation aid is something you want to abolish – it goes directly to people living in rental apartments so that the rent increases will not be too strong when you need to renovate. That's what the Moderates want to abolish. Then there is the root deduction. I do not think that the Moderates have any proposals whatsoever to introduce such a thing for rental properties. We Social Democrats have a decision that we want to put the conditions for the leases on an equal footing. It does not have the Moderates, i.e. the owned housing is a fiscal priority of the Moderates. We had congress here. We want to remove the Public Procurement Act in the case of public utility companies so that they can make renovations better and not be exposed to the major problems caused by the competitive disadvantage. The Moderates think that the commons should continue with the LOU. We mentioned the property tax. In addition to the Moderates running around lying that the Sossians want to introduce it, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin says that it is okay for tenants to walk from house and home when it comes to cost increases due to economic changes. But with regard to property tax, that was the argument, because then it was about the owned dwelling. My question to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is: Why can't you stand because you think that tenants should have worse conditions than those who own their accommodation?
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-68	Madam President, I would like I note that Ola Möller used the entire shift to talk about something that has nothing to do with this debate at all – the housing policy of the Social Democrats in general. Then he asked a completely irrelevant question. Of course, it is not true that we Moderates would not care about tenants or that we would like to impair tenants. I explained very clearly in my speech what we want to do. We want it to be possible to live in rental apartments in this country in the future as well. But it has to be based on someone wanting to own rentals, right? The problem with your legislative proposal is that you are only looking at the supposed intention and not at what the effect of the proposal will be. The effect is that fewer apartments will be able to be renovated in a situation where we have a huge maintenance debt, Madam President. So this is what we need to discuss: how do we attract capital to a sector that is in dire need of rehabilitation? But that perspective is not built at all. When you listen to Ola Möller in this debate you always get the impression that a rental apartment should be the worst possible accommodation option with the lowest possible standard. That is your clear-cut perspective, and I do not think that people who live in a rental apartment recognize themselves in it or want it that way.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-71	Madam President, I would like It is an interesting language: the supposed intention. You think about the tenants. I was in Husby last week and met the people who were in Mission review, in the report about Hemblas's way of going forward on Järvafältet. The most vulnerable people in this country are being driven from houses and homes, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, because we raise rents too quickly for them. What we are proposing is not a renovation stop. We suggest that they have the full opportunity to stay. Since you now think that we should stick exactly to rental property calculations and the like, I can say that it was an article in Fastighetstidningen this morning that it is still attractive to own rental properties – 3.4 percent in property yield in Örebro. Since you know real estate finances, please explain to me which property owner will start a renovation when they are dependent on such a cash flow increase in the first year. If they do not receive the 50% cash flow increase in that year, they cancel the renovation of an object with depreciation periods of 30-40 years. Do you seriously believe that a rational player in a real estate market is starting a renovation with that calculation? I haven't met any real estate owners like that. As I know that there is a need for capital in the market, I stand up for the renovation aid, just as I stand up for the investment aid to deal with the impairment problem in rural areas – you also want to remove that. It's not just that you want to make things difficult for existing tenants. You also want to make it impossible for them to get new apartments. You want to reduce the pace of construction, which further complicates the problem in this context. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin! Explain to me which property owner would go into a renovation project with a calculation where they had to retrieve the investment first year! ( FIRST VICE PALMANN: I would like to remind the honourable Member that we are talking through the President, also in order for the debate to be calm. )
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind the honourable Member that it will be a better debate if we do not devote our line shifts to fighting windmills that do not exist. You argue against straw men that you construct yourself, and that doesn't take the debate forward. Of course, I have never argued from the perspective that you have to be able to retrieve the investment in the first year, because we already have stairways that apply for up to five years. The problem is that you want to extend it, sometimes even longer than this five-year period. Then we will end up in a situation where it will be extremely difficult to get the calculations together for renovation. It is therefore not I who say this, but it is Sweden's collective property owners who do so, those who own these rental properties and who will do the renovations. This, Madam President, I believe, leads us to a place where today's tenants will be less well off. They'll have to live with worse standards. They will be allowed to live in apartments that had felt good to be renovated. The maintenance debt is increasing, and it may become irreparable at a certain time. This, Madam President, I am very pleased that we can stop with the rejection of some of this bill, which basically only serves to try to inflate a conflict that does not really exist. There is no conflict as to whether tenants should be well. I am convinced that everyone in this House is of this opinion, but then there must also be the possibility of renovating the apartments in which people live.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-80	Madam President, I would like The last thing Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin said in the previous line shift, I really agree. Of course there is a need for renovations in some apartments. But my question is, how are we going to make sure that the tenants who live there can stay? Perhaps a rhetorical question was asked from the speaker's chair earlier: What is a functioning kitchen? I would like to say that a functioning kitchen is a kitchen in which you can cook, whether it is stove plates or an induction hob. The price difference is quite large, and it may not allow the tenant to stay when a kitchen that works is thrown out. I would like to ask Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin: How do the Moderates really want to ensure that people can stay in the apartments that are being renovated? And how do we reduce the climate impact of the cosmetic renovations that are being made, as a result of our legislation, in order to increase rent? I fully understand that these projects can be financed, but I also see a great need for maintenance that is not this type of renovations but stem renovations and energy efficiency. How do the Moderates want to solve the type of renovations that allow the houses, and not just the individual kitchen or bathroom, to have a reasonable life span? These are measures which today are not very easy to raise rent for. The government has introduced energy efficiency support, which the Moderates intend to remove. What do the Moderates want to do instead?
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-85	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that the Moderates do not believe in large public subsidies that do not have an effect on the case. It is a waste of tax money, and one might think that a left-wing bloc that likes to talk about profits in welfare should also have made the reflection that every tax chandelier should be used as efficiently and fairly as possible. We simply do not think that it is effective and fair to give money to landlords who have long neglected maintenance. That is basically what these subsidies are based on: that you should get them when the apartments are deprived. What is a functioning kitchen or not, we can certainly have a long seminar about. I think maybe Emma Hult has a different view of it than those who actually live in the apartments. Leaky kitchen faucets and sinks that are only 80 cm high are certainly working in Emma Hult's world, but in order to make the rental right as a housing form more attractive, there may also need to be different levels of standard. It is clear that it is a commendable ambition that those who live in a rental apartment should be able to stay there after the renovation. Of course, this should be maintained. That's why we have stairway rules. But there has to be a balance, otherwise we end up in a situation where the maintenance debt escalates instead of being grazed off. I am not sure that any of us want to be there, but I am sure that the Government's proposal would have led us in that direction.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for the clarifications! The fact that the Moderates do not believe in great public support is not news to any of us. On the other hand, we can see successful examples in our neighbouring countries, for example in Denmark and Germany, where money has just been directed to do the kind of renovations that do not raise the rent but are necessary. It is therefore not a question of tearing out tiles and laying new floors in the kitchen in order to increase rent, it is a question of the property having a longer life span. I did not hear a single proposal from the Moderates on how these renovations could be carried out. We have proposals for energy efficiency support, which we see working well in neighbouring countries. I must realise that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin does not believe in them, and I find that regrettable. Believe I can do in church, but I am absolutely convinced that this support would have an effect. We also see that it is sought and has an effect. Leaky taps should of course not be present in apartments. The rental right must of course be an attractive form of lease. It is, too, today; we can see that in view of how many people want to live in a rental apartment. Nor do we see that the stepping-up rules that exist today and are used by certain landlords would be a problem if they were to be used by everyone to ensure that the tenants with the absolute lowest incomes have the opportunity to stay. I also mentioned the maintenance funds. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Moderates how you stand with maintenance funds to overcome this and give property owners a greater opportunity to renovate the properties in their portfolio.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-93	Madam President, I would like I understand that fog curtains are being laid out here, because what this proposal is about is simply extending and moving the hump for the insertion. We believe that it risks leading to errors, because then we will end up in a situation where the landlord cannot get a reasonable payment within a reasonable time for the renovation that has been made of the property. As a result, the incentives for renovating fall. We think this is problematic, and we also believe that it is doing tenants a disservice in the long run. We have a big maintenance debt, and we need to feed it off. Then we cannot come to this House with proposals which are in the opposite direction.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-95	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating enhanced protection for tenants. It is an important issue, and I think that the government has come up with quite few proposals in terms of strengthening the protection of tenants in the housing market. When you have put energy and come up with a bill you should have more to put on the table. Instead, we will see a series of proposals where I would directly make a link with the Government's previous interest in introducing market rents in Sweden. It is a way of trying to get away from talking about what conditions there really are for creating migration chains in Sweden and what reduction of migration chains we would have seen if you had introduced market rents. Few are prepared to move into a newly produced dwelling with market rent. The right to rent is very important to society at large, Madam President. Today there is a major imbalance in the housing market in general, and there is a great need, above all, for cheap rental apartments. These are needed, so that if you are going to be able to move to where work is located, you also need to have a place to live. Companies with growth potential should be able to demand the labour force available. Students need an apartment instead of giving up studies or choosing other studies that they might not have chosen in the first place. Even for many other reasons, rental rights are needed, which is a very smooth and good system for those who want to move quickly. No capital is needed, which basically means that it is an opportunity for everyone, regardless of income, to be able to get a home. There are many important things in the bill that the Swedish Democrats have been advocating for a long time and that will also be implemented as the Riksdag agrees with the proposals. These include strengthened conditions to act against rogue property owners who mismanage their properties. It is an important issue, and it is good that it is included in the bill. It is also good that individuals get better opportunities to charge a good rent when they choose to rent out in the second place. It is important to open up the housing market for more parties to rent out their temporarily vacant housing. Good things have been brought forward. There are also a number of proposals from the government that concern us and which the Swedish Democrats have opposed. The government enters a little open doors when you go in and spice up the proposal regarding the phasing-in of new rents, which in practice means that the property owner gives a discount on the new rent after a renovation. When the proposal to phase in a new rental after renovation was implemented once, it was a very good proposal. I may also think it is a rather generous proposal if the property owners act in that way. But it is naive of the government to believe that this will somehow improve the situation of the country's tenants after a renovation has been carried out and the rent raised. The current system means that one can have a stairway system and a phasing-in of the rent between three and five years, at worst up to ten years. It is naive to believe that the change that the government is making today will change the situation. In the end, there is no rent other than the one that applies after the renovation that will be on the table. Instead, the risk of a longer phase-in is that it must be compensated somewhere. In the end, it means higher rents due to a longer phase-in. Who is defending the government in this case? Will the tenant be better off? Answer no, not in the long term. If you are not able to finance the new rent, you are in the same situation even after the Government's proposal has been passed. There is no change at all, but rather a deterioration. However, the need for renovation remains. Maintenance is severely neglected in Sweden today. There is also the question of where the government is with its proposals. We do not come from the fact that properties in Sweden need to be renovated. We don't think it's good with buildings with neglected maintenance, that there will be slumbered areas with low standards, or that we are moving towards a system that exists in many other countries with mold damage and apartments with neglected maintenance. Is that where the government wants us to come when it makes it difficult for property owners to renovate where it is needed? The proposal means that we risk putting important renovations ahead of us rather than actually starting to motivate more people to renovate their properties. The reduced need for renovation is largely due to the fact that municipalities have not taken on their long-term responsibilities. It is the municipalities that have chosen not to ensure continuous property maintenance. It is clear that when a property that has a great need for renovation starts to be renovated, there will be increased rents. These rents can be greatly increased, and no one is happy about it. But it is not the current property owner that we should turn on, but it is the former property owners, especially the municipalities – the social democraticly governed municipalities that have once put Sweden in the situation it is in today. Instead, the government will come forward with a proposal which is a smokescreen to hide where the cause of the problem really lies. Instead, it is important to ensure that property owners receive the necessary tools. There the government lacks the necessary proposals. For example, the Swedish Democrats propose tax-free maintenance funds. This is one way of enabling property owners to plan for their renovation needs in the long term and to allocate money in such a way that the rent does not need to be increased. Here I want to be clear with the Social Democrats, because they have a history of falsely saying where the Swedish Democrats stand on a number of issues. In the last election movement it was falsely claimed that the Swedish democrats are in favour of market rents. This is something that the government was then prepared to introduce. Hypocrisy, Madam President! I want to make it clear that if there are proposals that are good for tenants, the Swedish Democrats are there and support. In this case, we work to ensure that in the long term it will be the best conditions for a low rent for tenants. Then we need to look at the problems in the long term. The Government's proposal risks that those serious property owners who want to manage their properties in a good way, both against their own administration and against the tenants, will instead refrain from taking over the properties with heavily neglected maintenance, as it is difficult with the Government's proposal to put together a calculation for the renovation. Which property owners remain? Yes, it is the rogue property owners, and we have seen headlines in media reporting around Sweden about these. Is that where we're gonna end up? Answer no, that's not where we're going. We will ensure that there are good conditions for serious property owners to actually take care of their portfolio, while at the same time protecting the tenants. We only do this by looking at what the Swedish Democrats are proposing. It is therefore a question of tax-free maintenance funds, to look at the roots of rental rights and the increase in housing allowance and housing allowance. It is also about looking at the other important issues, such as increased competition in construction and renovation. Furthermore, it may be the cost of building materials. You can enter a Nordic building materials market. This is what we need to do in order to reduce the cost of renovations in the long term. I do not see anywhere in the government's proposal how ultimately to get to the increased renovation costs, that is, the rent cost. I don't see anything on the government's side. The phase-in is extended to five years, but then it is exactly the same situation. There is no proposal in the Government's proposal to counteract renovation calculations. In this context, it should be borne in mind that, if it is to be a good housing market, it is important that there are not only large players on the market. Let's look at the City of Stockholm. The smaller property owners, those with up to 50 dwellings in their portfolio, account for 75 per cent of all owners, which corresponds to 17 per cent of the dwelling stock. We must create the conditions for more smaller players to be able to act in the housing market. That's where the economic part is important. It is easy to believe that it is only about large dragons that will make money in this context, but we must ensure that there is a broad housing market with several actors that creates the conditions for there to be available housing for those who need housing. Sweden needs more rentals, not fewer. Instead, the Government's proposal increases the risk for property owners. A reduction in construction and a decreasing rate of renovation is in fact the essence of what the government proposes in the bill. In these words, Madam President, I support the report by the committee in addition to the reservations put forward by the Swedish Democrats. For time winning, I only agree to reservation 6.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-117	Madam President, I would like Goethe said that first in the limit appears the master. In view of this 100% in excess of speaking time, I can see that Goethes's wisdom also applies today. Little wisdom came out, although much speaking time was used. Could Roger Hedlund please explain the question I asked Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin? Which property owner starts a renovation that depends on 50 per cent of the potential rent increase coming in the first year, when the value of the property automatically increases with the rising cash flow in the prison? When you get a start of the phase-in, your market valuation starts to tick, and then your acquisition opportunity will also increase. But if everything else is equal, your leverage ratio will fall, related to the market value ring. The image of a total stop is not correct. But Roger Hedlund will be happy to find out what in the cash flow analysis I have misunderstood. Furthermore, Roger Hedlund says that he sees no alternatives whatsoever in the government's budget. Roger Hedlund misses that the Swedish Democrats think that the renovation aid that should go just to reduce the high rents that can occur during renovations should be removed. That's the budget he's been looking at. On 13 June 2019 Roger Hedlund said that it is good that the tenants have an influence on the dwelling. He talked about protecting the tenants and making sure that there are not too high rents. What's changed to date?
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-122	Madam President, I would like I do not know if it has escaped Ola Möller that capital is needed when managing real estate. If you're going to step in and renovate, you need to make sure it's there. There are several reasons why it is now being presented, for example, that – as we are hearing from Ola Möller, Madam President – you are in favour of tax-free maintenance funds. I am pleased that the government and the Social Democrats seem to be looking at the issue that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a very long time and that they are actually taking on board the policy that we are highlighting. However, it is sad that it comes so late that you start to look at it now. After all, the question is when the proposal will actually come up on the table – if it ever comes up on the table, Madam President. However, it is a good proposal to prevent these sharp increases from being added. Had the proposal been worked out when the Swedish Democrats presented it, perhaps the tenants we have talked about in this debate could have been better able to actually live on after a renovation has taken place, Madam President. With the proposal that the government is now making, they may be able to stay a little longer, but in the end it will actually be worse for the tenants who choose to stay in a renovated property – because the property owner has to make up for this in the long term. In the end, therefore, conditions are becoming worse, with higher rents, because there is a longer phase-in of the new rents after renovation. That is the essence of government policy.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you for proving that Goethes's spirit continues to fly around here, Roger Hedlund. You're not answering my question at all. However, I have another question. This week there was a fire in Osby – a rental property burned down. Nicklas says to SVT that he would like to have an apartment, because he realizes that he has become homeless. Nicklas says: At least you could have got ahead of the line. But that's not the case, says the CEO of the housing company. There's no priority. You're losing your property protection because the apartment burned down. Nicklas is your party partner, Roger Hedlund. My question to you, therefore, is: What do you have to say to Nicklas in Osby, who is a member of the Swedish Democrats and is elected for office, when you propose in your motion that he should not have any property protection when the rental house has burned down and his home has been lost?
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-129	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting that the government is putting forward certain things as legislative proposals but think that other things should be sorted out by the property owners and the actors in the housing market themselves. Where do you draw that line? The proposal discusses an industry-wide model for consultation on renovations. This is something that very much affects the tenants' ability to influence what renovation is to be done and in what respects and what dialogue is to be conducted. In this respect, the Government believes that no legislative proposal needs to be made on this industry-wide model for consultation on renovations. It is argued that there is a common understanding on the part of the industry that this is important to be able to agree on. It is the same with regard to the replacement of apartments that are lost when they are destroyed. In cases where the property owners have the same interest – to arrange housing for the tenants who lose their dwelling – it is in extremely unusual times to develop property owners who have not followed the goal of actually protecting their tenants when they lose their home for various reasons. In the same way, I believe that we should not depart from the premise that property owners actually have that interest. So I do not understand the government's need to go in and legislate on something that is already working well in the real estate market.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-132	Madam President, I would like The speaking time is said to have been extended by more than 100% at the end of this debate, and this is probably because this is an important issue involving many people. Having listened to the speeches, I note that the climate in politics just six months ago, when we were actually able to discuss major and extensive reforms in the area of the rental market, is over. The parties are back in their trenches and are not willing to discuss important issues that would solve these things. Instead, we are discussing details that I think the government proposal in these respects is very much about. What would be needed to speed up renovations and housing construction in Sweden are completely different things. But let us come back to it on another occasion! The Center Party shares the Government's view that the security of tenants must be strengthened and predictable for both the tenant and the landlord. As many have said: The explosion in the Annedal area in Gothenburg at the end of September reminds us brutally that it can be very fast to get rid of not only your apartment but also all your possessions. A total of 140 apartments were affected. In the aftermath, it turned out that access to a replacement apartment became the least problem for the residents of Annedal – the property owners solved it through cooperation and goodwill. On the other hand, it has proved difficult to make the apartments habitable again for the original tenants, but then mostly for technical reasons. There are about sixty apartments that are still uninhabitable. Those affected who cannot move back to their apartment still have a replacement apartment provided by the property owner. As many have done, possession protection is something that ends when what you possess is no longer there. What the property owners have set up with are other apartments and new rental contracts. What both Sweden's Public Benefits and Property owners have called for is the empirical basis that identifies the problem of obtaining compensation apartments. Both Sweden's Public Benefits and Property Owners opposed that the Riksdag regulates by law something that most people see as self-evident that you solve if and when it is needed. However, the Center Party sees no contradiction between the good will of the property owner and that the issue of compensation apartments is regulated by law. If the property owner can do this, it can surely not be to the detriment of anyone that it is also in the legal text that one should be able to do so. That is why we are calling for this part to be approved. On the other hand, we think it is wrong for the government to propose that this right should also apply to tenant-owner associations that lease apartments as rental apartments. This is contrary to the idea and the form of ownership of the right of residence. After all, housing associations rent out apartments. For example, it may be during an ongoing reorganisation, where most of the right-of-occupancy holders act both as owners of their right-of-occupancy rights – i.e. shares in the association – and at the same time are landlords of some of their neighbours. In that situation, making a commitment as a tenant-owner to restore a destroyed apartment within a specified time, or to shake up an alternative dwelling, becomes too economically burdensome for the association and its members. In order to stop this proposal, Madam President, we in the Center Party have chosen the route that is customary and that Parliament can practically choose – and often choose – to stop proposals that are disliked, namely an announcement to the government that it will come back with a new bill exempting housing associations. Unfortunately, other parties have chosen to do in a different way. This means that we do not reach a majority on the substance, even though we are fundamentally in agreement, and I am the first to regret that. The Center Party sees no possibility of preparing, referring and legislating within a reasonable time and without great difficulty in the manner proposed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their reservation. It now appears that the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats will join in this. Of course, the Center Party supports its reservation number 7 on an announcement, but does not support it in the debate. It is important that this should be right, Madam President! What has recently received the most attention is the proposal to double the time for how long a rental increase of the order of 10 per cent is allowed to be escalated for a tenant when this apartment has been modernized, renovated and standard height through the property owner's agency. The fact that the issue of stairwelling is on the agenda, as I said at the outset, exposes the problems in the housing market that the Center Party has highlighted about how rents are set and negotiated with the support of the so-called utility value system. It is well known, Madam President, how this prevents new production and that it has led to property owners being allowed to set a higher cost-based rent for the first 15 years for new apartments. This in turn is conditional on the Tenant Association giving its approval to it in a negotiation. Without this solution of presumption rents, new production of rental rights would be significantly lower and the need for further building subsidies would be so astronomical that it could be seriously described as subsidised social housing. With regard to renovations, Madam President, there is no similar solution or subsidies. Therefore, the property owner's ability to recover the investments made by rent increases within a reasonable time is absolutely necessary if the owner is to be able to renovate his portfolio. We in the Center Party believe that today's time span of three to five years is enough and that a general extension to ten years would be the wrong way to go. We are calling for this to be rejected and we are calling for the majority of the committee's proposals to be approved. At the same time, we believe that property owners should be able to impose longer escalation times in individual cases and where there is a need. For this, Madam President, the Center Party is now being identified by the Green Party as belonging to the blue-brown bloc. I hope, Madam President, that this was a mistake on the part of Emma Hult and that it will not be repeated. Tenants are not a homogeneous group. The vast majority welcome a renovation and standard increase in their apartment and see it as natural that the rent is gradually raised below 36 – 60 monthly rents. Others may need more time, with the support of the possessor's protection. Here, too, we believe in the good will of the property owner and that the phenomenon of so-called renov counting is not very widespread and should be suppressed in other ways. Finally, we share the committee's view that a person who sublets his apartment should retain his or her right to terminate a second-hand tenant at short notice. We believe that restricting this right would hamper supply and make it even more difficult for those who need housing quickly and are referring to the secondary market. Unfortunately, Madam President, there are still many obstacles to the housing market. As long as Moderates and Left Partyists are prepared to form unholy alliances in order to put an end to these problems with serious ambitions in broad agreement, I have very little hope that we will be able to create the long-term nature of rental law that many people are talking about here. That is why, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal with the exception of reservation 7; we support it without calling for its approval.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-153	Madam President, I would like Third time's the charm, I'll see if I can keep my tongue right in the mouth. Now Ola Johansson is of course wondering what to say. I shall just ask for the approval of Amendment No 10, in order for it to go together in legal terms, and thank Ola Johansson for giving me the opportunity to do so during his speech.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-155	Madam President, I would like I thank Ola Möller for taking the line at Ola Johansson.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-156	Madam President, I would like I also did not intend to take a line on Ola Johansson. I just want to make it clear that what I said in my speech was that we have had a bitter taste over the last few days when the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, presented a common budget option. The reservations expressed in this report have nothing to do with that government option. Nor have I received a signal from the Center Party that it wants to be part of this government option. I wanted to be clear about that.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-159	Madam President, I would like After all, it could not escape anyone that the debate that this opinion was held in is the debate on strengthening the protection of tenants. Here, the Center Party and the Green Party have largely different opinions, but in other parts the two parties have very similar opinions. I think it is inappropriate for the term to be used in the way that the Green Party tends to use it. In some contexts it may be relevant, but in this context it is completely wrong. In many other contexts, it is almost as wrong.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-161	Madam President, I would like It has to stand for Ola Johansson. I stand up because I believe that the option put forward by this government constellation for a draft budget is a blue-brown option.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-162	Madam President, I would like It is not the budget we are discussing here.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-163	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2. I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I only support reservation 2. Today is a sad day. It is a tragic day because almost never since I started as a Member of Parliament have had the opportunity to vote on a proposal that would strengthen the position of tenants. Today would be the day when, for once, we would actually vote to strengthen the position of tenants. Then, with the support of the Center Party, they choose to say no to these proposals. This is a tragic day for Sweden's 3.4 million tenants. For us in the Left Party, the position and security of tenants is a priority. We have therefore for a long time put forward proposals in the Riksdag to strengthen the protection of tenants in various respects. We welcome the government proposal. We think it is positive and much-needed. However, according to me and the Left Party, the proposals in the bill do not sufficiently strengthen the protection of tenants. Further measures are needed to strengthen the protection of tenants, and thus their position and security. We've been up to speed – or we've written together – all the suggestions we have in our follow-up motion. The Government proposes that the Housing Management Act should introduce an opportunity for the Rent Board to submit a property owner to remedy deficiencies in the administration. Such an injunction should, for example, be able to be combined with a penalty payment. The government is also putting forward several other proposals on which we will be voting today. We in the Left Party support the Government's proposal but believe, as I said, that several other measures are needed. For example, we want to facilitate forced management of mismanaged rental properties. We want to make it easier to get reduced rent in the event of lack of maintenance. We want more protection for tenants when residential apartments are destroyed by amending the Tenancy Act so that the right of possession remains even if damage to the apartment is caused by a fire, as is proposed here. We must also prevent rogue property owners from buying rental properties. Madam President, I would like We need to make it easier to get reduced rent in the event of a lack of maintenance. This is something that we think is very important. Today it is difficult, complicated and expensive for a tenant to get reduced rent in the event of a lack of maintenance. It is therefore often risk-free for the property owner to make himself unavailable to the tenant or not to fix errors. The Left Party therefore, like the Tenant's investigation, proposes that the Tenant's Board should deal with the legal process instead of the courts. It's cheaper and easier. The same rules as in damages cases should apply, i.e. if the landlord cannot prove that he has taken reasonable measures with regard to maintenance, the rent shall be reduced. I think that's very reasonable. This will increase the incentives for property owners to deal better with the deficiencies than we see today. According to the study, it is also important that sanctions can be imposed on a property owner before the administrative deficiencies have become so extensive that forced management is necessary. We must continue to prevent rogue property owners from buying rental properties. The problem of rogue property owners buying up rental properties and then mismanagement of the administration is extensive. Addressing the problem requires preventive measures. It must be possible to prevent rogue landlords from acquiring new properties and thus protecting tenants. Madam President, I would like Time and again we see examples of how rogue property owners are allowed to buy more land, build and buy new houses despite previously questionable property management. They buy deprived houses in millions of programs, renovate and then raise the rents so strongly that the tenants cannot afford to stay, so-called renov bill. We all know this. Property owners who do not manage their property should not be given land, building permits, a detailed plan change or the opportunity to buy more properties from the municipality. The government should come back with a slightly sharper proposal on pre-sale and land allocation reference. Madam President, I would like We also need to work to further strengthen the protection of tenants when residential apartments are destroyed. That is where we agree with the Government's proposal. We think it is important to take that step, and it is gratifying to know that this particular proposal will go through. The question we want to spend a little more time on is how to improve the protection of tenants during renovations. Unfortunately, that proposal will not go through today. The government proposes that rent increases should be phased into a slower pace than is the case today. The amounts to be paid during the phasing-in period and the length of that period shall be determined taking into account in particular the size of the rent increase. Let me say that although I believe that further measures are needed to improve the protection of tenants during renovations, it is a much-needed proposal that is welcomed by the Left Party. Today we have a situation in which renovations and renovations of housing on the one hand are scarcely achieved and, on the other hand, can lead to excessive rent increases. In several high-profile cases, after renovation, the rent has risen by up to 60 percent. With such high rent increases, many simply cannot afford to stay. The phenomenon is called renovation. Landlords renovate and raise rent so much that tenants are forced to move, a form of indirect eviction. Thus, the tenant's possession protection in practice is disabled. Moreover, the lack of housing, combined with extensive conversions of tenant-ownership apartments, means that in many parts of the country there are no vacant apartments to be moved to for those who cannot stay after renovation. According to Boverket, approximately 25 per cent of tenants move during renovation, and it is primarily economically vulnerable that is affected. The report also notes that the need for housing allowance and financial assistance is increasing in connection with renovations and relocations. Many renovations are necessary, especially in cases where ongoing maintenance has failed, but renovations must be done with social sustainability in mind. It is crucial that the tenants are able to take part in the planning at an early stage and that they are given the opportunity to influence. Everyone should be able to afford and stay in their home without financial difficulties, even after rehabilitation. Madam President, I would like Today, homeowners and people who own their tenant-owners have the opportunity to use costly subsidies to renovate their home, but this is not the same for tenants. This must change. After this debate, Parliament will vote, and what we are going to vote on will affect 3.4 million tenants. The proposal to slow down rent increases will not go through. This will affect an incredible number of people. We know that the coronap pandemic has affected a lot of people. Many have lost their jobs, and many have lost their income. We have read many times recently about families with children that are evicted because their parents have a debt that can be as low as $600, which they cannot pay. We have pensioners who cannot afford to live in their home because they have too low pensions. We have vulnerable women who are in destructive conditions and want to move but who cannot do this because it costs an incredible amount to move to a newly built apartment. At this point, the government chooses to say that we must lower the threshold and make it easier for these people to have a home to which they are entitled under the Constitution. A proposal is being put forward to make it easier for these groups. I thought that the role of all Members of Parliament, politicians and politics was to facilitate people's living conditions so that they could have a dignified life, but unfortunately this is not the case in this House. With the support of the Center Party, the blue-browns have chosen that these groups should not be entitled to a safe home. The consequence of the decision we will make here today is that many more families with children will be evicted from their homes in this cold winter. Many pensioners will not be able to live in a home. There are many low-income people today who have lost their jobs because of the coronapndemine and become homeless. There were 33 000 homeless people in 2017, and today there are many more. But after this decision, we can expect more people to be homeless. It is the blue-brown bloc that, with the support of the Center Party, is responsible for this. We have to remember that. It is soon elections, and everyone who looks at this must remember this and hold all these politicians to account. Why do you choose, when you are able to make it easier for all those on low incomes, families with children and pensioners to live a dignified life and have a safe home, not to do so? You're running property owners' errands. This is something I am ashamed of. Anyone who will print red and not support the proposal should be ashamed of themselves, because it is scandalous and tragic to do so in these times, when people need the most support. I conclude by saying that we in the Left Party have always been behind the tenants, and we will continue to do so. When everyone else chooses to betray the tenants, the Left Party will stand there and fight for them. They're 3.4 million. We always will. We have always done so, and we will continue to do so.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-188	Madam President, I would like The Swedish rental market suffers from a number of shortcomings. We have far too few rental apartments in relation to the number of people who want a rental apartment. We also have queues for eight to ten years in our major cities. I believe that we in this House should have a common interest in removing this distortion between supply and demand. Various measures are needed, and we can certainly agree on a number of them. The rental market also suffers from a lack of interest and a low willingness to invest in building new rental apartments. This is what the government is trying to stimulate with investment aid because it is estimated that the rental market is not capable of managing new investments itself and therefore needs state aid. The regulations in the rental market are obviously not there out of spite, but they are problematic and bear on today's debate. The regulations seek to create order and predictability for both the property owner in terms of future revenues and tenants in terms of future rents. Surely we all have different views on the system of things, but if the rental market is to survive on its own terms and merits, we must help each other. If we are to make it through in the future, we must increase the willingness to invest in rental properties without state investment aid. Today's proposal is about strengthening the protection of tenants, and it is important that people in the rental apartment feel safe. There are 1.4 million households living in a rental apartment, so the proposal concerns a large part of the population. Of course, you should feel safe with your accommodation if you live in a rental apartment. One should know which frameworks apply, and if one adheres to them, laws and regulations should provide strong protection. The legislative amendments approved by the committee involve more effective intervention in the mismanagement of apartment buildings by introducing an opportunity for the rent boards to instruct the property owner to remedy deficiencies in the administration. The amendment also strengthens the protection of tenants when an apartment is destroyed by, for example, fire, as we have heard earlier today. In such a situation, the tenant shall be offered a new lease by the lessor, provided that it is reasonable. We Christian Democrats think these parts are fundamentally good, and we welcome most of the proposals. However, the Christian Democrats believe that there are insufficient arguments for amending the law so that substantial rent increases are phased in for longer than is currently the case. We believe that the impact of this change on the willingness to invest in real estate has not been sufficiently investigated, given the problem of the fact that there are currently too few new apartments. This also applies to renovations, for whatever reason. How can you solve the problems that arise when the calculations do not go together? An investment may take longer to count home for the company. My fear is that the investments will not be made. The landlord's right to terminate contracts in the case of private rental should be like today and not change. A private person decides to rent out under given conditions, but a lot can happen in a private person's life and situation. We therefore think it reasonable that the tenancy agreement can still be terminated at three months' notice. The effect may otherwise be that more people choose not to rent out their private dwelling. We also have a different view of what requirements can be made for smaller tenant-owner associations regarding strong protection for the tenant when the apartment is destroyed. This requirement can be imposed on companies with rental properties, which we welcome, but right-of-occupancy associations, which normally do not rent apartments or may only have a few rental apartments, may find it difficult to meet this requirement. It may not be reasonable to impose this requirement on them either. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-202	Madam President, I would like I read an interview with Larry Söder. He was asked if the inoculation should be longer in order to avoid renovation. Larry Söder replied that the implantation should not be longer because it can be up to ten years if you go after the proposal and that the current system works well. How can Christian Democrat Larry Söder say with a clear conscience that the system works well? Today, families with children are evicted. Last July it became clear that more families with children had been evicted from their homes in the first half of 2020. In 2017, 188 children were evicted, and this year 273 children have lost their homes. What happened to your Christian values? What happened to protecting the weak? Children are being evicted today, and the Christian Democrats think the system is good. For who? For the poor families with children? For the poor parents? For the single mothers who work in health care? Larry and his party applauded for them under the coronap, but now that they need support, you are failing and saying: No, it works well that you are homeless. Can Larry explain why to all these children and women?
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-206	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow defends his position with enthusiasm, and he deserves credit for that. The problem, however, is that what he is debating has nothing to do with today's proposal. This proposal is not about making sure that fewer families with children are evicted or that the rent is lower, but about how long the implantation should be. Just as the Swedish democrats Roger Hedlund said, it is the same rent that applies when the implantation is completed. The Left is trying to get it into a question of lower rents. But that's not true, because it's the inception that's getting longer. I argue that this can prevent investments and renovations, which in the long run is not good for the tenant. Both me and Momodou Malcolm Jallow think that we need to do something about families with children being evicted. There are measures we can take, and we can certainly help each other with that. But we are not solving it with this bill, because it is not about it. The rent will be just as high after three, five or ten years.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-209	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, Larry probably doesn't understand what we're discussing here. My question concerns exactly that. If you have a rent of 5 000 SEK and the rent increase is 4 000 SEK you should not have to pay 9 000 directly, but the rent is increased for a longer time, first to 6 000, then to 8 000 and finally to 9 000. Of course, it's about how much you pay in rent. Let us not mislead the voters and the Swedish people. They are not stupid; they understand this. It's very simple. It is 172 000 people who have a strained housing economy today. How can these people afford to pay 50% more in rent immediately after the renovation has been completed? They won't be able to do that. And the result is simply that they will lose their homes. They're going to be homeless, Larry. Anyone should know they're going to be homeless. In this debate, children and pensioners have not been mentioned. They are groups that are very vulnerable today as the situation is, so we cannot forget them in this discussion. If Larry and the Christian Democrats care about these groups, they now have the opportunity to actually show it, because anything else would be unacceptable. The reason I am standing here is that I am upset that there are many families with children in my municipality of residence, Malmö, who are already homeless. And with the decision that Larry and the blue-browns, supported by the Center Party, will make today, more families with children will be homeless.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-214	Madam President, I would like We can first note that with today's decision there will be no deterioration for tenants. The rules to be decided apply today. With Malcolm Jallow's proposal, the children's family is still in the end receiving SEK 9 000 in rent. It's a fact. If Mr Jallow wants to do something about the high costs of the renovations, we can discuss it, but it is not about this proposal. It doesn't take altitude at all. In this case, it has actually accepted the rent increase that is. The only question is how to implement the rent increase. Is it to be implemented in three, four or ten years? Then my view is that the rules that exist today work perfectly well so that it is possible for the tenant to adapt and for the property owner to make the necessary investment. If you are worried that families with children and pensioners will get a high rent after renovation, we can take care of each other. But then it is not these measures but other measures that are needed. You shouldn't fool the voters and say that this bill is deteriorating for the tenants, because it doesn't. These are the same rules that apply today as tomorrow. But it may not be populist to say from the Left Party.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-219	Madam President, I would like It is nice to participate, as a new Member, since 1 August, for the first time in the debate of the Committee on Civil Liberties. It's a little exciting. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 6 and 11. There is a great need to renovate Sweden's housing – that's what this is all about. The need is enormous, especially in the case of millions of programme houses. It is particularly important to achieve energy efficiency improvements for the sake of the climate, but also to implement what we in the Liberals have chosen to call the suburban lift. Madam President, I would like I want to use the image of a wave. To balance up this debate, we need a wave where we put different things in each balance, and they need to weigh evenly. We need a broad agreement, and balance is needed. In one of the scales, Madam President, we have consumer protection, and in the other we find the landlord's need to renovate his own property. Therefore, the Liberals see the proposal to extend the phasing-in period for rent increases as bad. The reason is that we do not see an opportunity to strike a balance on the wave, because it will be difficult to reconcile the economy in connection with renovations. Serious property owners will simply avoid making major renovations that enable a holistic approach to the property and its outdoor environments, energy efficiency and extensive trunk changes, which a serious and long-term management entails. The proposal also makes it difficult to invest in energy saving, positive climate impacts and security-building measures in vulnerable areas. Why, then, do the Liberals insist that the properties need to be of good standard and well maintained? Well, there's so much about exclusion. A well-managed area with well-managed properties is one of several things that can break an alienation. The important thing is that the rental right should continue to be an attractive form of housing with long-term rules of play and that the tenant can express his/her wishes in connection with the renovations. There are currently requirements for the maintenance of buildings, requirements for protection against noise and requirements for appropriate energy management. But more demands need to be made here, not less, for the building to be maintained and adapted to counter crime and crime. This could include improved lighting in and around a property, burglary protection or obstacles to illegal car traffic to provide security. It may also be a matter of imposing requirements on owners of properties where crimes have been committed repeatedly to bear the costs of the supervision that a municipality needs to put energy into reviewing the security at and in the properties. We should not oppose the owners' balance but encourage them to take responsibility for themselves and not allow tenants to live in substandard conditions that can have serious health consequences. Mismanagement needs to be stopped earlier, through, among other things, better environmental legislation and increased controls in case of suspicion of mismanaged buildings. This also weighs positively for the tenant and the landlord together. Extending the phasing-in period in the case of rent increases would not help to balance the balance. A good swing and rocking would appear. And no one, neither the property owner nor the resident, has any pleasure from it. If the tenant cannot afford to remain, Madam President, it is because the availability of housing is too small. We therefore need to build more housing in Sweden today in order to create greater mobility in the housing market and free up more cheap residential and rental apartments. However, for the benefit of time, I choose not to return to the political solutions of the Liberals for increased housing construction, and that is not what this debate is about. Liberals' main mission is to increase people's freedom and opportunities. A secure housing situation is a basic need that needs to be met in order for each individual to have control over his or her own life. A functioning housing market allows people to choose to move away from home, move together, move to study or to work, making life-changing choices. Here, rental law is incredibly important to protect. Now to the wave, which we need to have in balance. We need housing where we feel good and comfortable, housing that is maintained and managed and where exclusion is replaced by inclusion. We need to protect the climate in the home, outside the home, in society and also in our nature. We want more people to have power over their own lives and decisions. That is why housing policy is incredibly important to us. Inclusive and open societies, where people can make class trips and slowly map out their path, give us a much more beautiful society and a wave in balance even through housing construction.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-234	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Jakob Olofsgård to his first debate in the Chamber. I shall certainly take account of the fact that this is his first debate here. But I still have to ask you a question. According to a new report from the National Board of Health and Welfare, three out of four evicted families with children in the first half of 2021 were single. Most of them were single mothers. The bailiff also notes that many people work in health professions. So, to a large extent, it is a question of single women who have worked hard to help us all under the coronapandemy now becoming homeless with their children. In fact, at this point we must try to do our best to make it easier for these people. The government has made proposals, which we are discussing here today, to make it easier for these families. We know that renovations are a reality; they are facts. Many get rid of their homes and houses because they can't afford to stay after the renovation when the rents are raised very much. Now the government is saying that they want to make things easier for these people, so that they do not have to pay 50 percent more in rent right after the renovation without the rent being escalated a little slower. According to studies that have been made, the majority of the Swedish people want it that way. But the blue-brown ones, including the Liberals, choose to say no to this. I wonder why.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-239	Madam President, I would like I choose to take a deep breath and count to ten. Helping families with children is another debate. It is about increasing housing construction and getting more housing, so that it is possible to rent apartments with different price levels. Today there is no such thing. It is the lack of housing that makes it problematic. The fact that it is being renovated is extremely important for everyone. Then I'll talk about something educational. When I listen to the Left Party here, there is always someone else to pay. There is no one else in this case. It lands that it is the consumer who has to pay. Postponing this for a few more years will not help the consumer and the tenant. And there is a need for increased housing. However, for time to come, we are addressing this in another debate.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-243	Madam President, I would like I think it is I who need to take a deep breath and count to ten when I listen to Jakob Olofsgård's answer. I think you have to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One must be able to say that we can continue to work to build more housing, which is a long-term goal. It will not be possible to build 500 000 or 1 million homes tomorrow. At the same time as planning for it and working to do so, one must also look at what reality looks like today. In the cold today, there are people evicted from their homes. Then we need to find a way today to make it easier for these groups while at the same time working for long-term solutions. These are the two thoughts that we in the Left Party are always trying to have. As for what was said about the Left Party always wanting someone else to pay, the foundations of socialism have not been understood. We believe that, as a society, we have a responsibility to each other. That is why the state must play a greater role. And when the state takes a greater role, it is me, Jakob and everyone else who will be involved and contribute to building a better and more equal society. That is what socialism is all about. As regards the very question we are discussing, I would nevertheless like an answer. Why do the Liberals choose to go against what we know are facts, that is, that the majority of the Swedish people want stronger protection? And why do the Liberals want to go against their own voters? Even if Jakob Olofsgård does not want to answer me, he owes an answer to his own voters. Why do you not want to follow what your own constituents want? They want stronger protection for tenants.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-247	Madam President, I would like Balance is a stronger protection. I mentioned the wave and that we need to look to both sides to get stronger protection precisely for the tenants. The existence of a functioning property that is economically viable and renovated provides stronger protection and a balance. By delaying this, you are only doing a disservice. It is about having up to three four years to regulate the rent and make sure it works. And if the tenant cannot afford it, there is a possibility for several years to find another dwelling. We're not going to delay the construction of the future. Construction should take place quickly and now, but we will have to deal with this in another debate. I still couldn't count to ten. Madam President, I do not want to be exposed to some kind of browning. On May 1, 2014, together with Emma Hult, I participated in a service in Jönköping in a demonstration against Nazism. All parties present in Parliament today attended this service against Nazism and against the brown. Madam President, I would like It is not okay to hear this repeatedly from the Left Party Member.
i-UVAZjfSL66c5g5yrN5EjAh	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2. The Swedish National Audit Office reports in its review report on several shortcomings in the work of the Government and the Swedish Board of Agriculture to maintain good veterinary services throughout the country. The criticism consists mainly in the absence of sufficient follow-up and governance, due to a lack of government control and, in addition, that the Government has not followed up the Parliament's 2009 decision on the state's commitment to ensuring veterinary services. The government agrees with the criticism, and in response to it an investigation has been set up. But that's all. Madam President, I would like I find it distressing when it appears that there are no further measures to overcome the most acute problem. The veterinary shortage that prevails throughout the country must be brought to an end. I am pleased that we have managed to enforce an announcement to the government on access to veterinary services and on veterinary preparedness. We see that this is an emergency. This summer several animal hospitals shut down their on-call activities again because of the lack of veterinarians and animal carers. This meant that our pets risked unnecessary suffering and, at worst, being killed or killed. There are many testimonies about this. Madam President, I would like This feels terrible to think about, especially if you are the owner of animals as I am, that even animals should not get the help they need if they get sick, hit by a car or bitten by a snake or if there are complications when they are pregnant and are about to give birth to puppies or kittens. The list can be made long. Our pets and farm animals risk unnecessary suffering and at worst die because they do not get help on time. Swedish animal health care needs well-trained staff. It is a prerequisite for good animal care. This is very much an animal welfare issue and the most fundamental aspect of effective animal health care. The shortage of personnel in animal health care is extensive and will be so in the coming years. That is why it is extremely important for us to remedy this and for the government to assume its responsibilities. In the past, the government has also voiced criticism that private operators are benefiting in various ways at the expense of district veterinarians. But the fact is that many people have gone to private operators because of the working conditions of district veterinarians. For the district veterinarians are heavily burdened. We learned from the Caliber radio program how tough working conditions the district veterinarians have. Instead of going into the wall, they basically take other ways of coping with their personal life. Madam President, I would like It is strange that the district veterinarians today treat small animals as much as they do, for that is not their mission. In half of the meetings with animal patients, it is small animals that they treat, and it does not feel really relevant given the great needs of farm animals. Madam President, I would like The government wants to continue investigating for a sustainable and long-term animal health care system in response to the alarm about the acute veterinary deficiency. An investigation does not help the acute shortage today, but requires more vigorous action here so that farm animals and pets do not risk the unnecessary suffering that we have seen in recent years. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the government is taking this shortcoming seriously and taking more decisive action. The government knows the main reasons for the shortcomings, but it chooses not to do anything about them. The veterinary shortage is due to the fact that the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences does not train enough veterinarians, either today or historically, for the needs of Sweden. Swedish animal husbandry must be characterised by good animal welfare, good animal health and good disease protection. This must be reflected both in the demands for high ambitions and in the achievement of set objectives. The passive attitude of the Swedish Board of Agriculture regarding veterinary services described in the report is not acceptable. The responsibility for this lies with the government. It is therefore necessary for the Government to be involved in the administration of the Swedish Board of Agriculture in this matter. Madam President, I would like Sweden will continue to be one of the world's best countries in terms of animal husbandry and good animal welfare, good animal health and good disease protection. This requires a well-functioning veterinary service – and we have not done so today, as has been shown in the review report. Measures are now required for a good veterinary service throughout the country. It's gotta be taken care of. The Moderates do not see what the government has done enough because we perceive that the problems are of such a nature that it cannot be delayed beyond 2022 before the government makes proposals on how to remedy these problems. We have pointed out the seriousness of the situation for the government several times in recent years. Since the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20, we have also set aside funds to enable the University of Agricultural Sciences to establish more training places for veterinarians and animal nurses. However, the government has dismissed the issue and instead remained passive. We now believe that the government should urgently initiate an official dialogue in order to work out measures that can quickly be put into practice. The Board of Agriculture should be given the task of changing its accounts as a matter of urgency in order to ensure that the state grant is not used to finance the activities of district veterinarians in competition. It is a prerequisite for healthy competition and for better veterinary services. Now more than just good words and investigations are required on the part of the government. Sweden's veterinary services should be sufficient not to risk unnecessary suffering for our pets or the country's farm animals. The veterinary shortage should have been remedied yesterday. The government must shoulder its responsibilities, not least from an animal welfare perspective. This is very much an animal welfare issue and the most fundamental aspect of effective animal health care. The question arises with me whether the government really intends to sit passively and wait for an investigation and watch our pets and farm animals suffer and at worst die because there is not enough good animal health care in Sweden.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-271	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's responsibility for veterinary services. I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation number 3. The Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out some problems for veterinary services. Some of the problems, such as the lack of veterinarians, not least in the agricultural sector, have been known since before. It is good that the government has launched an investigation to address the deficiencies as a response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It would have been good if the investigation had been done earlier. In large part, we believe that the directive of the investigation is good. We are also in favour of the Government's investigation directive raising the issue of responsibility for on-call activities. However, we would like to emphasise that something that will be important to understand and thus solve the problems is that the government continues the dialogue with the Swedish Agriculture Agency. This is important because the work knows the business well and has insights that show a partly different picture from what is seen in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. After all, the first step towards solving a problem is to define the problem sufficiently well. It is also good that veterinary training should be extended in the budgetary options available to this House to consider next week. The fact that this is a larger increase than last year's budget is positive, but they have been even better if the increase had been made earlier and was greater, because the lack has existed for quite a long time, and this initiative is coming late. The number of trained veterinarians in the agricultural sector must match an increase in animal retention, as we want to see. It is, of course, an increase in animal retention that we have promised the Swedes through the food strategy. This will lead to the next important objective. We have previously expressed our wish for an investigation on the part of the Swedish Democrats with the aim that more veterinarians should be active in agriculture. We welcome the fact that the investigation contains directives for the investigation to propose further measures to ensure the availability of veterinarians in the agricultural sector if the investigation considers that there is a need. It is, however, an open text. Our request contains the more specific question of how to get more people from agricultural backgrounds to apply for and be admitted to veterinary education. It would be an important complement to the investigation that has been launched, and therefore the Riksdag and the Government should ensure that the investigation directives are extended in this way. People with a farming background have an interest in the particular branch of veterinary education where it is most serious in the event of a shortage. If these people can be sought and accepted, this particular branch will be supplied by veterinarians, in addition to veterinarians who have a good knowledge of animal husbandry and production conditions. This very understanding of production conditions is important for the business and industry. Competition for veterinary training places is sharp. You have to have absolute top grades to get in. But absolute top grades in theoretical subjects may not be the most important thing to become a good veterinarian in the agricultural industry. We should review the qualifications to the veterinary line. The requirements and qualifications should be examined. Perhaps merit points can be given for animal husbandry experience.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-280	Madam President, I would like Sweden is perhaps one of the best countries in the world when it comes to animal husbandry. There is good animal welfare, good animal health and good disease protection. And that's the way it should be. We care about our pets; it is cats, dogs or any other pet. And when they get sick, we want there to be access to care. Agriculture is also dependent on the animals' well-being in order to produce milk and meat, and it must be of high quality. Then it must be possible to get good veterinary care, no matter where in the country you have your farm. Another species is the horses that are growing in Sweden. There is also a great need for good veterinary care every day throughout the country. Another incredibly important aspect for which the state is responsible is the protection of infection, if it breaks out some form of epidemic in a herd. We saw this quite recently in this country. Then you have responsibility for having an effective organization, and the picture is that it works. One of the perhaps most important prerequisites for good animal health is that there is a well-functioning veterinary service that is equally good throughout the country. Today, we are debating these issues on the basis of the report The Government's responsibility for Veterinary Service – The Swedish Board of Agriculture's governance and implementation. It is a report that the Swedish National Audit Office has written and which the Government has then responded to regarding what to do with the recommendations that the Swedish National Audit Office has given to both the Government and the Swedish Agriculture Agency. It is truly remarkable that the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that there are major shortcomings in government and the Swedish Board of Agriculture's governance and follow-up. In 2009, the Riksdag and the Government decided on changes in the state's commitment to ensuring access to veterinary services. At the same time, several clear intentions were highlighted with the changes that were made. The Swedish Board of Agriculture would, among other things, ensure competition on similar conditions. Once this has been reviewed, it is clear that the Government has not followed up on whether the regulations work and whether the Swedish Board of Agriculture is following them. According to the audit, the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not ensure that there is a well-functioning and effective organisation for the care of animals throughout the country 24 hours a day. Madam President, I would like There is much more to the review, but I will not dwell on it any more. I would like to mention what the government intends to do, what has been done plus what we in the Center Party, together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, have chosen to take up in reservation number 1, to which I, incidentally, hereby call for approval. The warning bells should have started ringing at the government years ago. Since 2016, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has not procured veterinary services as decided in 2009. There are, of course, reasons for this, but the government has not followed up on this, even though it claims to have a continuous government dialogue with the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The shortage of veterinarians and animal carers has been alarming for years. However, we must give the government the opportunity to increase the budget for the number of training places in veterinary education on several occasions. But now came a new report from the Swedish National Audit Office, and then something happens. You set up an investigation, like you usually do. This is, of course, important in order to prepare the matter thoroughly. It was done at the beginning of June this year, and it will be ready by the end of autumn next year. But what happens in the short term, Madam President? There is no response to the most acute problem. It is extremely important to ensure access to veterinary care even while the investigation is ongoing and until those proposals have been prepared and can become a reality. More training places take quite a long time to get in place. In recent years, we have heard more and more stories about the difficulty of getting access to a veterinarian during on-call and holiday periods. Last summer we could hear that when you called with an acute sick horse foal in the transport there was no room at the nearest animal hospital that was just 200 km away. They had to go to the next animal hospital, which is another 200 km away. Perhaps it is even longer distance in northern Sweden, but in southern Sweden to get care in animal hospitals is a rather brutal experience. Thankfully, things went well in that case, but something could also have happened along the way and in terms of health care. It is extremely important that good care is available throughout the country. The Center Party has highlighted the importance of the government returning as soon as possible with proposals on how to solve the veterinary shortage in the short term. The committee had the opportunity to have a dialogue with the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I do not feel that either the authority or the government really had a clear answer to what is going to be done in the short term. The government should also give its own authority clear instructions on how to resolve access to veterinary preparedness during on-call time throughout the country. In addition, the work situation of veterinarians should be reviewed so that they choose to stay in their profession. The workload must be reasonable. We have also highlighted the importance of monitoring the development of the veterinary market. It does not seem to have been done since 2009, even though a great deal has happened. I had hoped that the committee would support what we have raised in our motions to do decisive things also in the short term and not just wait for the investigation. So thank you to the Swedish National Audit Office for the report that you came up with and that has finally got the government to act a little more than just by increasing the number of training places, although it is important! Madam President, I would like However, when I mention training and being present throughout the country, I hope to see suggestions that some of the training can be provided in more places in the country and that obstacles to joint training in border areas are removed.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-296	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating in this House the report by the Swedish National Audit Office on the responsibility of the state for veterinary services. This is a largely critical report we have received. I thought I'd read a little inside from the report. The overall conclusion is that there are major shortcomings in government and the Swedish Board of Agriculture's governance and follow-up. There are also shortcomings in how the Swedish Board of Agriculture ensures access to veterinary services. This means that there is a risk of a shortage of veterinary services in some parts of the country. In addition, the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not ensure that the activities of the District Veterinaries are carried out in such a way that competition on similar terms is maintained on the veterinary market. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the Government must entrust the Swedish Board of Agriculture with ensuring access to veterinary services throughout the country. It's hugely important. We can't believe it hasn't been done. Why has the government, with its Minister for Rural Affairs and now Minister for Economic Affairs, at least for a while longer, been sitting on its hands and letting this just happen? This is very serious, Madam President. The availability of veterinarians around the country is an absolute prerequisite if we are serious about having a living countryside and that there should be food production throughout Sweden. Furthermore, as Mr Eklöf said, the food strategy states that food production should increase, not decrease. It does not do so unless veterinarians are available when the cow or any other animal becomes acutely ill. Madam President, I would like It's very troubling around Agricultural Sweden. A report for autumn 2021 was published in October. The result was extremely alarming and disappointing. The report shows that fewer farmers feel that their businesses are profitable, and their forecasts for 2022 are pessimistic. Why? Profitability is too low. Perhaps someone in this House is saying – I do not know – but milk prices have risen, meat and grain prices as well. Of course it is, absolutely. But never have the prices of inputs been so high. Feed prices, electricity prices, fertiliser prices and diesel prices have skyrocketed. A dairy farmer called me and told me that he had made a calculation of the cost increases. We are talking about increased costs of SEK 967 000 in his home alone, and it has come just like that. He asked: How can I afford this? Another farmer emailed me and told me about several grain farmers who now think nothing in the spring but lay down the fields because it is too expensive. It is really worrying among Sweden's farmers, and we in this House should also feel that the consequences will be enormous. Less grain and higher prices will be felt. I have spoken many times in this House about the need to increase profitability, to strengthen competitiveness and to allow our country's food readiness to increase. But I and many others feel that I have spoken in deaf ears. Food strategy became just a paper product. No farmer– I have been out with quite a few – can say that the result at farm level has been something that could be attributed to the food s trategi that we adopted in 2017. I ask you to accept reservation number one.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-305	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 1. Our country's self-image when it comes to Swedish animal health is that we are one of the world's best countries on animal husbandry. We have good animal welfare, good animal health and good disease protection. But the image of our country is dangerous to take for granted. Incredibly much stands and falls with the fact that there are well-trained veterinarians who can get anywhere and at any time. It should not matter where in Sweden you live if your animals need care. This is extremely serious. According to the image provided by the Swedish National Audit Office, there is today no clear picture of who ensures that the emergency services really work. There is also a lack of cooperation between private operators and the District Veterinarians. It needs to be better to make on-call time work. Whatever measures need to be taken, the Swedish Board of Agriculture needs to address this as soon as they can for this to work. Madam President, I would like It is not only as a Member that I stand here today, but I am also a farmer's son. As a farmer, I had long arms, and these long arms I once used to carry home a calf from the pastures when the cow had just calved. In here in my heart are many memories of how important it was at home on the farm that the animals would feel good. Those days have stuck with me when an animal had to be sent for emergency slaughter after the veterinarian was there and found that there was no more to do. Our whole family was involved in this, and mostly my dad. He was frustrated, angry and sad. It was painful when I grew up to see the importance of animals to a farmer. I would like to dwell on a memory, Madam President. It was once when my three brothers and I were home for a weekend. We were teenagers. When we came out into the barn in the evening, we discovered that one of the cows had calved and had suffered from uterine prolapse after calving. I don't want to tell you exactly what it looks like, how it is done or what action is done, but one is for sure: I remember sitting there counting the minutes from my brother's running into the house and calling the vet. I sat there and looked into the cow's eyes. Her name was Beda; I had memorized all the names of the cross. After all the minutes that I counted came so the vet and cow's life could be saved, even this weekend. Emergency times are extremely important. I'm grateful to the vet. It is not primarily the economic loss that feels when you see an animal suffer or when you lose an animal, but it is because as a farmer you have put your soul in this animal from the day when you carried it home from the pasture to the animal's last day of life. It is therefore not enough simply to set up an investigation. Urgent action is needed now. The farmers now exist. They are now in the same situation as I did and waiting and counting the minutes until the veterinarian arrives. It takes too long before they get there, if they even come. It doesn't feel okay to stand by and watch. It should also not be difficult to find people with agricultural backgrounds who want to train, but then the places and places of education need to be increased. I am grateful to those colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture who have tabled motions on this, which I, as an individual Member myself, have not been able to do since I am new. However, they exist – I am grateful for that – and they are needed for there to be more training places so that the acute veterinary shortage can be solved. Veterinarians need to increase so that we can ensure that the current workload on them is reduced due to on-call times. Today, these on-call hours are not attractive because the workload makes veterinarians few. We need to change this, and it is urgent. Guess who was my idols when I was growing up at home on the farm? It was the vets. Wow, I looked up to them! If there had been an education in my hometown, you can trust that I would have stood in line for it, and hopefully I would have had high enough grades. These heroes called veterinarians need to be more in our country.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-317	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, which deals with the National Audit Office's report on the responsibility of the State for veterinary services, and I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the government's follow-up and the Swedish Board of Agriculture's work to ensure access to veterinary services and operations at the District Veterinary Offices. The review has also concluded whether the Swedish Board of Agriculture ensures that the activities of the District Veterinaries are conducted in such a way that competition on equal terms is maintained in the market. The conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office's review are that there are major shortcomings in the governance and follow-up of the Swedish Board of Agriculture's work to ensure access to veterinary services, including the activities of the District Veterinary Offices. Madam President, I would like In 2009, the Riksdag and the Government decided on changes in the state's commitment to ensure access to veterinary services. Several clear intentions were highlighted with regard to the changes. Among other things, the District Veterans would have several limitations in their mission and the Swedish Agriculture Agency would ensure competition on similar terms on the market. Since then, the ownership structure has changed by the fact that a small number of operators have bought up a large proportion of the previously independent companies in the veterinary market. In addition, the massive expansion of the animal health market has resulted in a shortage of trained staff today. When the current organisation of veterinary services and other public veterinary activities was introduced, the idea was, among other things, to allow private practitioners to participate in disease prevention and on-call preparedness and to benefit from public support through procurement. However, private operators have shown very little interest in carrying out such tasks. We Social Democrats welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review, and the government has incorporated their observations and heeded their recommendations. As part of the management of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations, the Government decided on the Comitology Directive A sustainable and long-term well-functioning animal health care. Madam President, I would like Our most common pets, dogs and cats, are not only getting more but also older here in Sweden. The trend has been clear for several years, and there are several reasons. 90 percent of all dogs and barely half of cats have a veterinary health insurance, which is unique to Sweden. No other country in the world has so many insured dogs and cats. The number of insured animals combined with improved veterinary care allows more animals to live a longer and healthier life. But it is not only our small pets but also all our horses and farm animals that need veterinarians sometimes. Furthermore, our farm animals are extremely important for us to increase our food security in the country. As I said before, the animal health market has expanded considerably. The rapid development and man-made difficulties identified call for a wide-ranging review of the area. For the summer, the Swedish Board of Agriculture addressed a letter to the government based on the risk of reduced veterinary availability over the summer that they saw coming. Our former rural minister Jennie Nilsson acted directly and invited stakeholders to discuss the situation and possible measures to reduce the negative impact. Rapidly thereafter, on 10 June this year, the Government therefore decided to set up an investigation for a sustainable and long-term well-functioning animal health care. Regardless of the species, all of us who have animals can testify about the importance of veterinarians, but also about the need for veterinarians that can arise around the clock and year round, regardless of where you live in Sweden. The review of the investigation covers the state commitment in the field of veterinary services and disease preparedness, competence issues and resource requirements in animal health care. The study will also identify consumers' ability to compare costs as well as rules for the introduction of operational supervision and an assessment of whether supervision should be funded by fees. Madam President, I would like Animal health care is crucial for us to have healthy and healthy animals. This health care is provided by the veterinarians and the animal nurses, and there are too few of them today. As early as 2020, the government took measures and provided funds to veterinary field operations and SLU for more veterinary students and access to animal care throughout the country. But we need more vets and animal carers. Therefore, the government has now proposed a greater strengthening of the training of veterinarians and animal nurses at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. The reinforcement will take place gradually with SEK 37 1⁄2 million in 2022 up to SEK 71 million annually starting in 2027. The courses respond well to both needs and wishes. The industry also bears witness to major staffing problems for both veterinarians and animal nurses, especially during on-call and holiday periods. It is important to improve the possibilities of covering the need for veterinarians and nurses, so as to minimise animal suffering. In parallel with the investment in education, SLU is also proposed to receive funds to invest in premises adapted to the increased number of students and more funds for education. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we now have an investigation that is working and that takes a holistic approach and will propose measures. I am also pleased with the efforts proposed in the budget. Together, this is important to ensure a sustainable and long-term well-functioning animal health care. The challenges of the summer have also led to the launch of broad discussions within the industry to review what can be done about the veterinary shortage. What is important to us Social Democrats is that we ensure that we have good animal welfare and good access to veterinarians throughout the country, every day of the year and for all species.
i-674993b7cc3cdc32-332	Madam President, I would like The state has long assumed responsibility for animal health care, well-functioning disease protection and food safety. It is the Swedish Board of Agriculture that is responsible for ensuring that there is veterinary service every day throughout the country. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which we are debating here now, there are, as we have heard several times, major shortcomings in how the Swedish Board of Agriculture ensures this access, as well as in the government's and the Swedish Board of Agriculture's control and follow-up. The risks involved are obvious. There may simply be no care available for the animals in certain places when needed. We've seen it happen. We saw it in several places in the country during the summer that passed, when the veterinarians would have vacations and some animal hospitals that normally had on call did not have on call because the lack of staff made it not work. We know that the problems have existed for a few years in places in northern Sweden where the shortage of veterinarians is clear, especially for those who have the animals and horses of agriculture, and also in other places, where the D istrict veterinarians today simply do not have the people enough to staff the on-call activities around the clock. Madam President, I would like The market for animal health care has changed a lot in quite a few years. A few large players have bought up a large share of the stand-alone companies on the market. The demand for pet care has increased. The animals have become more numerous. Of course, it affects access to veterinarians. The farms have also become larger but fewer and have more animals. Emergency areas have become considerably larger, especially in northern Sweden, with many miles for on-call veterinarians to travel between farms, sometimes 300 km or more. For pets, there is also an increasing demand for specialised care. So there are certainly several factors that are causing the current shortage of veterinarians. The rapid expansion of animals is, of course, a factor. Too few training places is another. Another factor today is that many both veterinarians and animal carers quit their jobs because the job is too tough. Many newly graduated veterinarians come directly from education to a clinic where they are expected to cope with all the different tasks that exist immediately and usually alone. It would have been good if there had been support to get for a few years for the newly graduated, perhaps the same system that exists in human health care, with A T places at least a few years. I think that would keep more people in their workplace. For district veterans, it is also about working hours. After on call, you need to be free. This is true in most professions today, but not among district veterans. There you are expected to work the day after on call as if nothing happened. And on call often falls in the smaller clinics with few employees. When the current Veterinary Service Organisation was introduced, the idea was to allow private practitioners to participate in disease prevention and emergency preparedness and to benefit from public support through procurement. However, private operators have shown little interest in doing so. We don't really know what it's due to. We do not know whether it is because the aid is too low, that the procurement procedure is too complicated or something else. So it needs to be investigated. Based on how it works – or does not work – with on-call preparedness today, there needs to be a way for the entire corps to share on-call so that all veterinarians get the rest required after on-call. There are, of course, different ways of doing so, but this requires a very early improvement. We have amazing vets at our house, and I guess that's how it is in other places in the country, too. But their workload and on-call schedules need to be human if they are to remain. The industry is dominated by incredibly hardworking and dedicated people. As the market today works, D is often a stepping stone to a clinic of their own. No harm in having your own clinic – these are absolutely needed. But, as I said, we need to find solutions that make the work of D's scientists attractive as well. Now the government has set up an investigation that will cover several of these problem areas and produce various solutions to the problems that exist. Here I hope that it will be included to look at the employer's role, the work situation and the workload of the veterinarians, since it is a crucial factor for manning in the future. Several people I've talked to in the profession say that the lack situation we're in now wasn't just like that five or six years ago. Then it could even be difficult for graduates to find jobs. At the same time, they also say that those working as district veterans have had a very tough working situation for many years. Today there is a glaring shortage of veterinarians in many different places. The training is five years old, which means that the current situation is not fast-moving. I know that we are looking for veterinarians from our neighbouring countries and hope that it will produce a good result, because we need that. Of course, the Swedish Board of Agriculture now has to work hard to find solutions. I assume that this will also be the case, while the government is acting in the long term to create more training places. The government has increased the funding for veterinary field operations annually since 2020. The efforts the government is making in the run-up to 2022 and forward will solve parts of the shortage of personnel. But it will also continue to require improved working conditions and perhaps other things to get enough skilled veterinarians to want to carry out their activities in places where it is difficult today to involve trained staff. I know that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is also working to get better on-call activities together with the veterinarians. In the budget proposal for 2022, the government proposes strengthening the training of veterinarians and animal nurses. The reinforcement is gradual. Fully expanded means that an additional 40 veterinarians and 20 animal nurses will be trained annually. The extension of veterinary training also requires, of course, investment in new premises, which is possible with an investment of 30 million 2022 and 2023 and 15 million 2024, so that funds are added. Madam President, I would like Having said all that, I would like to thank the Swedish National Audit Office for this investigation. I know that the government is now building for the future while the Swedish Board of Agriculture is committed to finding solutions to the current situation, which is of great importance for both veterinarians and keepers.
