i-247daffe27ba7c0e-0	Madam President, I would like There are few countries in the world that can combine such a good ability for signal intelligence with such effective protection of personal privacy as Sweden. This is largely the result of this House's decision on a new law on signalling twelve years ago. This law has served Sweden well, but now needs to be adapted to the fact that the threat to Sweden looks completely different now than twelve years ago. Madam President, I would like Signal reconnaissance in Sweden is therefore highly regulated to avoid personal privacy. It's basically good. First of all, all signal intelligence that the Armed Forces Radio Agency conducts requires court orders. It is the Defence Intelligence Court that makes these decisions, and they cannot be appealed. Secondly, the Privacy Protection Council of the FRA has ongoing transparency of the Authority's activities. According to the letter we are now debating, the Privacy Protection Council held six meetings in the previous year and has nothing to report or recall against the activities of the FRA. Thirdly, the State's inspection of defence intelligence activities – Siun, as it is known – reviews the FRA's activities each year. In the previous year, 28 audits were carried out, which was 2 more than in the previous year. They also have nothing to recall against the activities of the FRA. The Government considers that Siun's operations are functioning well and that personal integrity is well served in connection with signal intelligence. I share that view, Madam President. But, Madam President, the need for signal detection is, of course, ultimately governed by the threats facing Sweden. In the Swedish Defence Radio Institute's report for 2020, they have pointed out that the demand for their products and analyses has never been as high as today. It is a symptom, I dare say, of the safety-political wind-swing that Sweden is now facing. Sweden is in a serious state of security policy. The threats, risks and vulnerabilities to our security have increased over time. According to Must's annual review, which came last week, the pandemic has reinforced this trend in both the short and long term. In the short term, we see that disinformation operations aimed at Sweden regarding protective measures and different types of vaccines have increased. People work more remotely. There is a greater vulnerability to cyber attacks. Cyber espionage against pharmaceutical producers has also increased. But Must also points out that there are longer-term trends that have been reinforced during the pandemic. Firstly, the international security regime has weakened during the year. It is about increased power confrontation between Russia, the United States and China. Secondly, Sweden faces a more complex and multidimensional threat. The risk of an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out, but we also know that we are in a borderland between total peace and total war. Different types of hybrid threats, such as misinformation operations, cyber attacks, election influence and foreign direct investment in socially important and security sensitive activities, have increased over time. According to Must's international assessment, the threat to Sweden is not only military but also political and economic. It's both the case, not either or. You must have several thoughts in your head at the same time when analysing the threats to Swedish security. All of this must have consequences for Swedish defence intelligence. We need to gain a better understanding of the threats, risks and vulnerabilities facing Sweden. The Moderates therefore pushed on during the defence negotiations for increased funding for both Must and FRA, and this also had an impact. In addition, in our shadow budget, which we adopted last autumn, we spend almost 100 million over three years on strengthening the FRA's activities. But that is not enough, Madam President. We will also have to review the law on signal reconnaissance in order to adapt it to the deteriorating world situation. The issue is that more authorities in the security and defence sectors must be given the opportunity to focus and share the results of the signal search, because the threat we face is both more multidimensional and more complex. It is also about how the signal reconnaissance should be conducted. It is therefore appropriate to review Article 2(a) of the Signals Paging Act. Today we have such a situation that the FRA cannot continue to follow the communication between, for example, two foreign terrorists or two foreign intelligence officers communicating in Sweden. I note that the government has partly met us in the total defence bill. There it is clear that there will be a review of the law on signal reconnaissance. But it is not clear in the bill when this work will begin, how it will be carried out or to what extent it will be carried out. Madam President, I would like In the light of the fact that the law on signal reconnaissance now has twelve years on its neck and that the threats and risks to Sweden have increased, we want to see a review of this legislation. I would therefore like to support the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-12	Madam President, I would like We are now discussing the Defence Committee's report No 5 Protection of privacy in the event of signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' reservation, which is about an increase in the frequency of signal reconnaissance. About a year ago, the Defence Committee presented a report. An important clarification in that report was that a military threat to Sweden cannot be excluded. What we pointed out in that report, on which all parties agreed, was that over time we see a deteriorating security policy situation and that in various ways we need to strengthen our ability to defend ourselves. It is about providing security to the people of Sweden and helping together with our neighbours to increase common security. There we have put forward a whole series of proposals. Unfortunately, the security policy situation has deteriorated, just as the previous speaker was concerned. Today, Säpo had a press conference. It warns that the threat to Sweden from foreign power and violent extremism continues to increase. The ongoing digitalisation and polarisation in society, along with the pandemic and shortcomings in security work, also facilitates these attackers, according to the Swedish Security Service. It is about the pandemic creating new vulnerabilities that are being exploited. Violent extremists use the pandemic in their propaganda, and foreign power engages in disinformation. The FRA had a similar article for its annual report. Both authorities have an annual report from 2020. The FRA was on the same theme in its point n de. Last week it was said that the military presence in the immediate vicinity resembles the Cold War. It is about attacks on research environments, a foreign terrorist threat and a high military presence in the neighbourhood. Behind this, the FRA says that there are government actors with powerful tools. That is something to which we must relate. That will be my connection to today's debate. We've got signal reconnaissance. That is something we should be proud of. Since the Second World War, the FRA has made very significant efforts, and we are at the forefront. We have legislation that is 12 years old. It very well complements personal integrity with the needs that exist. We have pointed out that there is a problem when it comes to foreign spies or terrorists, for example, if both are at Sweden's borders. It has been pointed out that the FRA, for example, can handle the wiretaps. But if you cross the border somewhere in Sweden we become blind. We can't have that. It cannot be that in this way we are removing the opportunity from society to obtain information about threats to Sweden. It should be self-evident that it is time for a review in order to be able to respond to this. It is only to be noted that we have a different threat environment than we saw twelve years ago. Of course, we should keep an eye on personal integrity. But here we should ensure that we do not become blind and deaf to threats that cross the border. We can keep an eye on it if one of the parties is outside Sweden. If they go into Sweden, we can't go with them. That's why we have the reservation. Like the previous speaker, the government has met us to some extent. But there are still questions about when, how and how the government thinks that is not clear. Madam President, I would like That is why we maintain and call for the reservation to be approved. We see it as so urgent that we can capture threats to Sweden's security today but also for the future. It is time that we did this review and that we could get the tools in place.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-24	Madam President, I would like The report deals with the protection of privacy when signaling defence intelligence activities and is based on the government's annual letter. The Government's annual letter has its background in an announcement by the Riksdag at the conclusion of the bill An adapted defence intelligence activity that was discussed in 2007/ 08 on additional legal certainty and control mechanisms. Although I was not present at the time, I think that the Riksdag then made a very wise decision. Continuous follow-up in this area is extremely important, not least in the context of personal privacy. Madam President, I would like I could copy parts of my speech from the corresponding debate last spring. It is about the crucial importance of intelligence activities for Sweden's security. It is about its importance for us to be able to understand what is happening and what is happening in the outside world. It is about its importance to prevent and prevent different situations and conflicts from arising. It is not least about how important it is in the international collaborations that Sweden is involved in and to the greatest extent involved in. Intelligence is also important in order to prepare ourselves for the developments ahead. It is a way of preventing and preventing conflicts and crises. Signal reconnaissance activities are a necessary and integrated part of Sweden's defence and protection against terrorism. Ultimately, it is a question of defending the democratic and civil rights on which we have built our country. Madam President, I would like But there is also another balance on the other end. Of course, personal integrity must be protected. We have a strong regulatory framework that aims to protect the personal integrity of individuals. The letter we are debating today deals with the activities that have been conducted in 2019. There is a certain backlog in accounting. I note that the committee shares the government's view that the system for protecting personal integrity in signalling defence intelligence activities has functioned in the manner set out in the legislation. Madam President, I would like I'll say a few words about the coming years and the near future. The Government announced in the total defence bill for 2021-2025 a broader investigation of signal intelligence legislation in order to ensure that Sweden has legislation that, taking into account the changing needs of the world and total defence, offers effective and effective support for Swedish foreign, security and defence policy and for the identification of external threats to the country, while continuing to take due account of individuals' personal integrity. It is precisely the question of the right of ISP to target signal intelligence that is intended to continue to be prepared in this context. The government's assessment is that the broader threat picture against Sweden entails the need to strengthen collaboration between the security and intelligence services in order to ensure a common situational perception across the threat scale. The committee has noted that we see no reason to anticipate this work, but we await the government's response in this area. With the closing words, I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-34	Madam President, I would like Household debt has been under discussion for several years. However, Finansinspektionen notes in the Mortgage Report 2020 that both new and old borrowers have good margins to make payments even in a worse financial situation. The resilience of households is good, implying a limited risk that mortgages will cause significant credit losses to banks. The large margin also means that households' consumption in worse economic times should not be significantly affected and the risks that the opposite would give to the national economy should be avoided. The idea of the restrictions has been to act as a form of insurance in the event of a forthcoming economic crisis. However, the insurance premium has proved to be high, not least for those who have not yet entered the housing market. The restrictions make it more difficult for young and other first-time buyers to enter the market. These groups are referred to support from their parents where possible, expensive newly produced rental apartments, second-hand accommodation or blanco loans. In the spring of 2020, the Swedish parliament announced to the government that an overall evaluation of the credit restrictions currently implemented should be carried out. I note that the Government has recently given an evaluation assignment to Finansinspektionen, but although Finansinspektionen makes many valuable analyses regarding macroprudential policy, my view is that this requires a review of an investigation that is in a more independent relationship to the macroprudential measures introduced. The mortgage ceiling should be raised from 85 to 90 per cent of the value of the dwelling, while removing the interest deduction on blanco loans. The reason is that the capital requirement can reasonably be reduced when income requirements have increased dramatically as a result of the first and second amortisation requirements. A lower requirement for cash intervention would make it easier for first-time buyers to enter the housing market. The increased risks that the increased mortgage ceiling could possibly give rise to are offset by a reduction in the risks associated with blanco loans. Madam President, I would like Against this background, I support reservation 1.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-40	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating financial stability and financial market issues. These are crucial issues for saving and investment and for building a robust safety net against financial crises. Madam President, I would like Almost 400 years ago, the tulip had just arrived in Europe via the Ottoman Empire. It was then perceived as an exotic plant and had previously only been available to botanists, but now it became available to the public. In addition, it had been discovered that tulip bulbs had fine qualities as commodities. It came to be something of a status symbol to speculate in tulips, and quite quickly the prices had tenfolded. By then people had sold houses, homes and land to finance their investments. Sooner or later, of course, the rise stagnated, and then people ran to the square to realize their profits. The problem, however, was that the number of sellers then far exceeded the number of buyers. The party thus came to an abrupt end, prices went south and the Netherlands went into recession when what is considered the world's first financial bubble – Tulipmanin – burst in 1637. Today it is no longer tulip bulbs that rock the world economy, but the basic market forces are exactly the same. The difference is that financial markets are now interconnected at global level, which is why a national subprime crisis on the other side of the Atlantic could develop into a global financial meltdown. Whatever the reason – whether it's about tulip bulbs in the Netherlands or subprime loans in the United States – the result of financial crises is always merciless. They come with huge socio-economic costs in terms of unemployment, lower pensions, increased healthcare costs, increased crime and increased mental illness. That is why the right regulation, supervision and control are de facto crucial to sound financial markets, growth and prosperity. It is these heavy issues at macro level that financial stability is basically about, and here the Swedish expert authorities have a shared responsibility together with the government. In practice, however, we have to zoom in to capture the issues dealt with here today. In this context, the role of policy is to create the conditions that allow prosperity to be created, which is done by building a healthy financial cycle and stimulating investment. It may sound like a complicated mission, as it is, but I would argue that much is about setting the rules of the game and creating predictability. There are few things that make the household and business sectors more nervous than politicians that create uncertainty about the long-term conditions for savings and investment. Let me exemplify this with a question! When the government goes out and says that capital taxes should be increased, are entrepreneurs more or less eager to risk exposing their capital, career and potential health? I don't think I need to articulate the answer to that question. What I want to focus on is that it is not possible to wave this away as political rhetoric, because the government has a credibility when it comes to making a reality of threats. During the last parliamentary term, savings were punished not once but twice by increasing the tax on ISK. The questions that arise against this background are: What capital taxes are to be increased? How much should they be raised, and when? The fact that the questions are being asked at all is serious, but that they are being asked in a recession is extremely serious. When we need to increase activity in the economy most and when the Swedish companies are already down, the government is hitting Sweden at its hardest and hurting Sweden as an innovation country. Madam President, I would like Over the past year, there has been an explosive interest in stocks such as asset classes. The interest of young adults is particularly marked. Own saving is good for obvious reasons, but it is also directly necessary for my generation. Today, Sweden has a large group of pensioners living in relative poverty, and unfortunately, pension projections look even darker. These are the practical realities in which policies should do everything in their power to encourage private pension savings. On a more principled, ideological level, we are of the opinion that the task of politics in this context is to give people the tools to shape their own future. Unfortunately, large parts of this House do not seem to share this view. In the Committee on Finance, the opposition has recently pushed through the right to move freely on pension savings, but after the government was given back homework by the committee. A similar example, but in the opposite direction, is the agreement on the premium pension scheme, PPM. It restricts the choice of pension savers in the range of funds – a range of funds to be approved by a new authority through a government selection process. So it is government officials, the government's extended arm, who will decide how to set up your savings. It doesn't feel very trusting. In contrast, the Swedish Democrats have several proposals that would strengthen people's private economy. For example, the ISK Act needs to be modernised to enable small savers to participate in more IPOs. It is a proposal that should also be dealt with within the framework of crisis support for Swedish companies during the pandemic, as it would facilitate the companies' raising of capital. Furthermore, the tax on ISK must be reduced to the same level as before the government's last increase. It would stimulate savings and provide security for the individual at different stages of life. The conditions for employee options need to be improved in order to help small, fast-growing innovation companies find the right skills and improve the supply of capital. The second amortisation requirement must be permanently abolished in order to allow young adults to enter the housing market in our most rapidly growing and labour-intensive regions. All these proposals have one thing in common: they are low-hanging fruits, and the cost of government finance is small or non-existent. But they would make a big difference for investment, and thus for job creation and growth, in the country. The Swedish democrats will be a guarantor that development is moving in this direction. I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 2, 7, 12 and 15.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-55	Madam President, I would like Let us note that savings are record highs. We can also note that savings were able to cope with a tax increase corresponding to an average cheese hook bag, because that is what the ISK tax was about. We can also note that research clearly shows that economic equality is of enormous importance for the growth of a country – the greater the economic inequality, the worse the conditions for growth. In addition, we know that public investment is much more effective in creating jobs in the short term than private investment is. Madam President, I would like I am going to go over my speaking time. Sometimes that happens when we're digital. I will talk a little less in other debates instead. In Sweden, we have a high level of consumer protection in the financial field, but not sufficiently strong in all respects. Financial products and services are often complex and difficult to understand, and consumers are at a disadvantage in terms of information and knowledge in relation to financial operators and sellers. There is also a social trend in which we are increasingly moving from collective solutions to individual choices – not least in the area of pensions, where we will all try to place our premium pension in the best way and hope for some lottery. This is also increasingly the case with our occupational pensions. The Swedish Consumer Agency annually measures the experiences of Swedish consumers in different markets. Banking and financial services each year place themselves among the areas that are perceived as most problematic. Consumers simply find it difficult to compare different products and to have access to independent information. They're being extradited to these actors. If the actors' trust is low and variable remuneration is based on internal sales targets, it creates a conflict of interest between the financial operator and the customer, who is you or me or someone you know. The advice given to customers is often contrary to their interests. When you have a variable remuneration there is as well built into the system. That is why there is also a strong argument for stronger consumer protection than what we have today. On that basis, the Left Party has exercised. One of the proposals is to strengthen the position of mortgage customers in negotiations with the bank. Finland has a different model than Sweden. A contributing factor to the banks' huge profits are the large margins they have on mortgages. If you've bought a condo or a villa and have a loan, I can really promise you that you're a major contributor to the bank making such a big profit, because that's actually what it looks like. In Finland they have a model based on the internal bank rate, which in Sweden is called Stibor. Then the customer knows how much the bank has paid for its loans. It is like a bottom for all mortgage customers in Finland when they are negotiating with their bank. Then the bank will have to explain why it wants this and this on. In Sweden you will be presented a sum, and so you do not know why the sum is so large. This has not been done in Finland. This creates a stronger position for the mortgage customer in the negotiations with the bank. We did a comparison in, I think, June 2019. If you had a mortgage of SEK 2 million – it has many, probably more than that, not least here in Stockholm – it separated as much as SEK 900 a month. So much more was paid in Sweden on their mortgage than they did as a mortgage customer in Finland. That's a lot, because mortgages we pay off for a long time. It's a huge investment. The question is: Why should Swedish mortgage holders pay so much more than what Finnish needs to do? This is a question to which I think the other parties in this Parliament should actually answer. Why should banks be kept under arms instead of consumers, mortgage customers? It would be better if the homeowners and the tenant-owners could use this money to perhaps change their roof or do it better for their children than for the bank to have it based on an interest rate that is not reasonable. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning market also requires that products and their prices are clear. In the banking market, I can promise that there are major shortcomings in this respect. Much is linked to the banks having different package offers, where for example the discount on the mortgage rate depends on how much the customer otherwise engages in the bank. Do you have your savings there? Do you have cards through the bank? Are you a key customer? Do you borrow enough? That's all connected. That is why we believe that this should be reviewed. The pros and cons of this product packaging should be investigated for consumers. Such an investigation should also suggest how transparency can increase in the banking market so that customers actually know what they are getting and what they are paying for. Consumers in the financial services market find it difficult to get an overview of the costs of different types of financial services. This reduces the mobility of the banking market. Competition is even worse than it already is. We also believe that banks should be required to produce an annual cost summary: how much have you paid in fees to the bank? How much have you paid in interest? This is an accounting that the bank should be obliged to make to its customers. That is not the case today, and we want to change that. There is also coordination between companies in the financial sector of a more subtle nature, which actually restricts competition but is not subject to the provisions of the Competition Act. One example is when a company goes out publicly and talks about what pricing it intends for the next period. This sometimes happens in the financial markets, not least in the case of mortgages. Australia has introduced a ban on price signals in the banking sector. We believe that the Australian example is worth studying and possibly taking into account. We therefore believe that the issue of a ban on price signals on the banking market needs to be investigated. In addition to general digitalisation, trade on world exchanges over the past 10 to 15 years has become increasingly algorithm-driven. This means an electronic trading system based on predetermined instructions and parameters. High-frequency trading can be seen as a sub-category of algorithm-driven trading and is an extreme form of short-term trading that all small savers on the stock exchange are actually affected by. They simply do not have a chance against these technical products. That is why we believe that this market needs to be regulated to a much greater extent than it is today. A study should also be set up to do this in order to strengthen the position of small savers. Finally, Madam President, I will address the issue of cash. It's hard to trade cash. It is actually difficult to withdraw cash from your own account. We believe that the government should return to the Riksdag with a proposal that the banks should be obliged to receive the cash deposits of private individuals and companies. I think we have all met traders who say that they have problems with being able to deposit the daily cash at the bank. Sometimes you also have to pay very expensive to get the day cashier to the bank. We simply want to strengthen the ability of consumers to use cash. PRO and Sweden's Consumers have pointed out that the current trend leads to an increasing number of traders and restaurants stopping accepting cash. I think we've all been to places like that. This mainly affects sparsely populated areas and people who are in digital and economic exclusion. Access to and the possibility of using cash is also important from a crisis preparedness perspective. What happens if the whole chain goes out and we don't have power and energy the way we should have, if there's a cyber attack or whatever it might be? We think that there should be a regulation, as it does in Norway, which places demands on traders and restaurants to accept cash as a means of payment. But we must also, of course, take into account the risk of robberies that traders and restaurants may be exposed to. Today, banks are shooting that risk to small traders and restaurants. So we want to see a change of law, and one needs to be investigated. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank myself and ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservations of the Christian Democrats in this report with numbers 4, 13 and 16. Financial stability and financial market issues play a major role in the national economy, but they also play a very important role in individuals' opportunities in life. We have a situation where many who have stable incomes feel that it is difficult to get loan opportunities in order to get into the owned housing market. This, Madam President, I believe, risks creating poverty traps when people who want to knock down their nests, live permanently and have the opportunity to buy and live in a owned dwelling – a right of residence or a small house – cannot do so because of the restrictions that have been stacked on each other without proper socio-economic analyses and analyses from the perspective of the individual. We have received a mortgage cap, we have received amortization requirement of 1 and amortization requirement of 2, we have been greatly increased left-to-live-on-calculations, KALP, and reference rates against which the banks will test the customers. What is the consequence, then, when people with stable incomes are no longer given the opportunity to enter the owned housing market, where it is often cheaper housing to have access to? Well, it is a reference to expensive and insecure second-hand housing or expensive, newly produced rental apartments. Often it is the same people who are first-time buyers who do not have an endless queue time to enter the rental market. It will then be expensive housing that in turn creates poverty traps, both because you cannot take part in any increases in the price increase of housing and that you can actually save less. When you have these higher housing costs, there will be less opportunity to build a buffer for the future. We need to think about that when it comes to financial stability, and we believe that we have not done enough. The Committee on Finance issued an announcement to the government to review the overall impact of credit restrictions on the national economy and household access to the owned housing market. The possibility of starting loans would also be explored in order to actually provide greater opportunities for individuals to enter the housing market – both those who have moved to Sweden and perhaps come here as refugees or migrants and people who are younger and want to buy their first home. There is now an assignment in this part in terms of starting loans, and that is very good. However, I note that the government has placed a mandate on the Financial Supervisory Authority to review the effects of the credit restrictions in order to make this announcement. However, with all the profits that Finansinspektionen has, Madam President, it is also Finansinspektionen that has imposed all these restrictions and put them on each other. It would have been better with another assessor's assessment of the effects of this than for Finansinspektionen to evaluate its own measures. I think there is a major flaw in the way the government deals with these issues. Madam President, I would like We also see the need to further strengthen work against money laundering, not least money laundering used to finance terrorism. We also have a reservation that points to the need for Sweden to do more in the international contexts where this is handled. Madam President, I would like My final point today is about fake invoices and that the regulatory framework that exists for individuals not to be affected by fake invoices could also be used in some respects for small businesses that are hit very hard by this phenomenon. For example, it affects older people who are forest owners and who do not primarily see themselves as entrepreneurs but who do not have the same protection as private individuals when it comes to fake invoices. Here we think that there is reason to review the current regulatory framework so that more people get better protection from the behaviour of trying to deceive and deceive people who want to do the right thing through this kind of scam. With that, Madam President, I do not have much more to add. I have explained what I wanted to say and asked for the approval of reservations. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind the members of the Committee on Finance that we have an agreement with the group leaders that we only make claims for a reservation. There may be reasons for making claims concerning several reservations, for example when there is a false majority, which we experienced yesterday. In this case, however, I cannot see that this is the case, so I hope that you will continue to limit the requests to a reservation. Thank you for that! )
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-88	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for a good debate so far. We are debating financial stability today. It is clear that for a country like Sweden, which depends on its place in the world, needs to be open to the world and basically builds its prosperity on trade and that we are open to people being able to come here, work, business and help build our prosperity, financial stability is incredibly important. One aspect of this, which has been mentioned earlier in the debate, is housing. If Sweden is to be a competitive country in the world, we need to ensure financial stability so that it feels safe to invest in Sweden and at the same time have a stable and functioning housing market so that it is safe to invest your time, skills and life by being in Sweden during their working years and even later. Madam President, I would like When it comes to housing, all forms of housing have a function in the economy. If you are going to a conference or maybe a vacation, it is reasonable to rent a hotel room. It would be unreasonable to buy a dwelling or sign a long contract for a rental apartment. But if you're going to live a little longer in a place – you might want to study for a while or have a project employment of some kind – it's not reasonable to stay in a hotel. You can't stay in hotels all your studies, because it would be very expensive. Instead, it may be reasonable to have a tenancy agreement. Therefore, the rental right also has a role to play. The temporary form of rental housing works very well for people who need to stay for a short time in a place but not quite as short as during a hotel stay. But, Madam President, if you are going to live even longer in a place – you may have a permanent job, or you may have children who have started school and want to live in the same place for a little longer – in fact, the property owned is definitely superior from an economic perspective to the financial stability of the individual. It is about that if you rent your accommodation you pay a premium for a lot of services and that the landlord also needs to be able to pick out a salary and a profit. If you rent your accommodation compared to owning your accommodation, you lose over time money. It plays a role in mobility, but from the perspective of the individual and the economic perspective it is more reasonable to own one's housing. There are some different figures, but a figure that figures in the debate is that if you live in a place for two years or more it is more profitable to own your accommodation than to rent it. And most people have periods of life when they live for more than two years in one place. Without looking into it in advance, I would dare to assume that's the usual. Madam President, I would like It is this perspective that makes it so provocative with the very burdensome macroprudential measures, such as the tough amortisation requirements and the mortgage ceiling. We've talked about stress tests with interest rates in the past. We therefore have the burden of imposing an obligation which makes it almost impossible for young people to enter the housing market. Young people who have studied clearly and who are going to live for a long time in one place find it very difficult to get into the housing market because they do not pass these calculations, and it is we from politics, you might say, who have introduced these measures. In this perspective, it is of course almost a scandal that in Sweden it is so that in many cases people with low incomes are forced to live in rental apartments throughout their lives. It is incredibly provocative, Madam President, precisely from the perspective that you actually lose money on it versus owning your dwelling if you live in the same place for a little longer. There are more problems with these requirements. In addition to young people with low incomes, there are also those whose living situation and housing needs change. Perhaps one has lived in a place for a long time because one's children have gone to school there, but now the children have grown older and started studying elsewhere. They may live in a rental apartment or a rented student residence in another city. Then perhaps it is time to review your housing situation because your needs are no longer the same. Should people of the age that children are outflyed be locked in homes that no longer meet their needs? It is clear that it in turn creates problems for the next generation of parents who could move in and start a family in a home that works for this particular one. Overall, I believe that all these measures reduce Sweden's competitiveness in the world. From this point of view, our financial stability is likely to deteriorate in the long term, as mobility in the housing market is far too low. It is for these reasons, both from what we can call a class perspective, from the perspective that we want young people to be able to establish themselves and from the perspective that people whose children have flown out should be able to find a home that meets their needs, which we have landed in that the household's regulatory burden on the basis of these macroprudential measures urgently needs to be eased. I am entirely in favour of examining it, as the representative of the Social Democrats will surely say after me here in the speaker's chair, and I share the criticism of the Christian Democrats about how such an evaluation should be carried out. But even here and now, measures are needed to ease the situation as a matter of urgency. Of course, I support all our reservations, but I only call for the winning approval of time to reservation 5. Thank you, once again, for a good debate.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-102	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to start this change of line by declaring that I am no longer in favour of reservations 13 and 16. I am, of course, behind them, but in honour of the agreement of the group leaders, I only call for the approval of reservation 4. Thank you, Joar Forssell, for a committed and good post! We share much of the analysis that Joar Forssell points to in his post that people with stable incomes should be able to own their housing in Sweden and that there are many obstacles to doing so. It is also welcome that Joar Forssell shares my criticism of the fact that the government now, in order to respond, as it were, to the announcement by the Committee on Finance, puts the task of evaluating this to the same authority that has imposed these restrictions. I have a question for Joar Forssell. Joar Forssell's party has a cooperation with this government for at least a while longer. It may therefore be worth hearing how Joar Forssell sees the possibility for the Liberals to actually bring about a change in the evaluation of this in the context of that cooperation, and to pursue an ownership policy for more social ownership so that more groups and also those outside will actually have a chance to enter the ownership market. It is urgent that we get changes here.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-106	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have very recently said and stated that we want to see and sit in a bourgeois government after the next elections. The reaction of the Christian Democrats to this, Madam President, was that one might not want to see the Liberals in such a context. That is why it is a little strange when you tell me here from the speaker's chair that there are problems in the current cooperation of the Liberals. It will be a bit damned if you do, damned if you don The answer to the question is that the opportunities that the honourable Member is asking for are, of course, within the framework of the January agreement. But they might be even more so if the Liberals were to negotiate economic policy with the Christian Democrats as well. We want to see some kind of new self-home movement. We have also said that we want to see a larger element of flexible ownership, i.e. that you can buy a piece of your apartment and maybe get the rent down. Then you can put away a little more money, and then it becomes a positive spiral even for these people. I think what Mr Forssmed is raising here is important: it is about stable incomes. It doesn't have to be high income. You can have stable employment with a stable income that is quite low. This may not meet the requirements for you to be able to buy an entire dwelling, but it may be enough to buy some of your accommodation. In this way you can work your way into the owned part of the housing market. I see no obstacle for liberals to pursue these issues regardless of what cooperation we are in. On the contrary, I think that these are the issues that we need to address at all the negotiating tables that we end up at.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell! It is great that the Liberals take these questions regardless of context. We Christian Democrats do, too, because the questions deserve it. We have for a long time been pushing for this social ownership policy, not least with regard to small houses but also with regard to housing rights. Rent purchases are also something that really needs to be put in place. I look forward to the possibility of better cooperation on these issues with the Liberals, if that should be the case. Exactly in what forms remains to be seen. Liberals also have a process that is not quite ready in terms of how they look at this forward, and that is probably also a reason why the Christian Democrats are not hitting the big drum about exactly what it will look like afterwards. They also want respect for the internal processes of the Liberals. In this area, I long to cooperate more with the Liberals and in other areas as well. There is no doubt about it, and I believe, like Mr Forssell, that within the framework of bourgeois cooperation there is a far greater understanding of the importance of ownership for individuals and their ability to knock down the boors and feel security, confidence and faith in the future. That's so important. Keeping people who may have immigrated to our country or who are young outside these opportunities in the way that is happening is not great. If we are also going to start talking a little about how we are looking forward, we have an idea that there will be some kind of amortisation requirement also in the future. I think so. It would then be an idea to have it aggregated on the entire bank's mortgage stock so that it would also be more advantageous for individual customers to amortise. This also creates greater scope for the bank to lend money without amortisation to certain types of households. I think this is a way that would be interesting to look at in the future in order to create more flexibility around the requirements that still need to be there.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-114	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the kind words of the Christian Democrats. All parties pursue their demands regardless of who they negotiate with. This may be a meta-discuss, but I note that, in the broad middle of Swedish politics, there is, if nothing else, a declared ambition to have a more social housing policy in the way described by Mr Forssmed. I read a debate article in the Real Estate newspaper a few weeks ago, written by the Social Democrats in the Civil Committee. They talked about a new home business and a more individualised amortisation requirement. I'm sure you picked up some other action as well. What I see in the future, Madam President, is that those aspects of the policy that are outside the January agreement, outside the budget, must be negotiated with both Christian Democrats and Social Democrats. There, too, the Christian Democrats may have to be open to discussing with more parties than just the Left Party, which is perhaps the main focus of the Committee on Finance. I am completely open to discussions and discussions that can lead to a larger share of ownership of housing in Sweden, regardless of which social or part of life you are in.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-118	Madam President, I would like I can begin by reassuring Joar Forssell that the cooperation of the Left Party and the Christian Democrats in the Committee on Finance concerns a number of individual issues, including money for elderly care – which I hope the Liberals will also end up behind. The property is to a much greater extent subsidized than that of a rental apartment. Above all, the differences increased greatly during the previous bourgeois government. The owner-occupied dwelling is beneficial in tax terms with interest deductions in property tax and through root. A tenant who gets his way shoveled does not get the deductions, but the one who has a house and takes home someone who Scots gets a tax deduction. This is also true of the interest rebates and property tax. It distinguishes as much as SEK 2,400 a month – the latest figure I have seen – between a newly built rental apartment and a newly built small house. That's what some people say. It would be a little interesting to hear what Liberals are proposing to strengthen rental law because there are many people who have chosen to live there and who live there their whole lives. Others do not do so because they cannot afford to buy a property. J ag was going to ask Joar Forssell a question about Finland and the loan model that exists there to force the banks to push interest costs to mortgage customers. When we are forced to pay as much interest as we have, and perhaps will do more, more people are also excluded from the mortgage market. I would therefore like to hear why the Liberals are not interested in discussing such a model that exists in Finland, in which banks are forced to base themselves on the internal bank interest rate in the negotiations with the mortgage customer. This would strengthen the mortgage customer and put pressure on interest costs.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-122	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by doing something unusual in Swedish politics, namely by saying that I actually do not know. I am a jump-in today in this debate. Usually I do not work in the Finance Committee, but in the Industry Committee, which in many ways has related but not exactly the same issues. When we design our policies in the residential area, especially the economic aspects, we look a lot at Finland and Norway. Norway has a housing saving system for young people that we have looked at. I can simply take the question with me to those in my party who are most concerned with housing policy and that kind of financial policy linked to housing. Thank you for the input from the Left Party. We liberals are always listening to new ways of looking at things in the world. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to comment on this. I am a social liberal, and I find it interesting to have social mobility. Somewhere is the foundation of our policy, namely that people of all backgrounds should have a fair chance in life. It is a major problem that the gaps have increased in Sweden for many years. To a large extent, there is an increase in the gap due to income from capital. It is becoming a little silly with these discussions about increasing the tax on income from work. That is not where the gaps come from, but from income on capital. One reason for this is that low-income people find it very difficult to enter the owned part of the housing market. Today we have been talking about amortisation requirements and mortgage payments. I have mentioned rent purchase or flexible ownership – dear children have many names. What proposals does the Left Party have to increase private ownership of housing even among low-income people?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-127	Madam President, I would like It is a pleasure that there are still social liberals. I think they're getting a little too red-listed and rare. But it also honors Joar Forssell that he says he doesn't know. We would need to see more of that in politics. I'll turn to the questions. There are different forms of accommodation. We have different conditions to get different accommodations, and we also have different choices. Some choose the rental right because they want the service provided there. But the big question is why we should politically disadvantage a form of housing while other forms of housing receive large subsidies. I have never heard the Liberals reply to that, and it would be interesting to hear why a form of living should be disadvantaged. In this form of housing, the average income of residents is lower. It becomes even more strange that it should be so from a social liberal perspective. The sale of large parts of the rental stock makes it even more difficult for low-income people to take a place on the housing market. This is a huge transfer of capital from the owners of the housing company to the individual. That's how it has been, and that's what it looks like-- it's clear. The Finnish model would be a way of benefiting those who want to have a home because it would put a lot of pressure on interest costs. When we checked, there was a difference of SEK 900 a month between Finland and Sweden on a loan of SEK 2 million. It's a lot of money, not least during its term. It's a long term for a mortgage. Why should we benefit the banks? It is better that the owner of the house keeps his money and invests it in the way the owner finds best. It's one way to work. The mortgage ceiling is problematic, and it should be reviewed.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-133	Madam President, I would like It will be classic from the Left Party and from the Liberals. The Left Party is happy to talk about how to fight wealth, and the Liberals are happy to talk about fighting poverty. Our answer to the question is not about creating a greater financial burden for people who have capital and own housing, but our answer is about ensuring that people who currently do not own housing but have low incomes can also afford to buy housing. I used to live in a tenancy apartment in Tensta outside Stockholm. There are almost no flats in Tensta. There are a few, but it's shrill. What happens all the time in such areas is that people who come from there and who get an education get jobs with often higher incomes than the parents or others in the family have had and move away from there. They don't move because they don't like Tensta – most people like their areas and like it there with friends and social contexts – but they move because there are no flats or opportunities to get the housing that meets the needs. Another problematic aspect is that it is more than it should be the background that determines where you settle. This is because there are not enough flats in all parts of the dwelling stock, in all parts of the country or in all parts of the city. It is also the case that people who initially have low income and are unable to save money but who know that they will have higher income later will not have a chance to enter the housing market. That is why we must ensure that the property of people on low incomes also increases.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-138	Madam President, I would like Financial stability in Sweden is generally very good. That it is because everyone involved – politics, our authorities and the financial actors – is assuming their responsibilities and that we are creating rules and frameworks that maintain order and order. It's a force for the country. When we assess financial stability, there is much to be taken into account. Do we have sound government finances? What are the risks in the economy, both nationally and internationally? Is the banking system working well? Do we have sufficient consumer protection? These are some examples. Essentially, financial stability is about us citizens having a secure and fair economic life. The fact that Sweden has very sound public finances provides a good foundation and creates confidence in the economy. We are in favour of a responsible budgetary policy that does not jeopardise the long-term perspective. We build buffers in good times, which are needed in harsh times. The pandemic we are currently in is a clear example of this. Thanks to the healthy public finances that we brought into the pandemic, we have been able to launch aid packages of nearly SEK 400 billion. It has saved many jobs and businesses, kept the country afloat and created security. We also see that Sweden – so far, to be added – has managed relatively well economically during the crisis. But we live in a world where the state finances of countries are not always as well. As a result, many countries that already had very high public debt before the crisis now have even higher levels of debt. It builds up risks, and it limits the space to kick off the economies again. Paying interest and amortization of these debts is diluting budgets in the countries, but it must be done. Debt levels in most states are a cause for concern to several international institutions. For the Swedish part, it is crucial that our world goes well economically, both for social and political reasons as well as for our exports. Another area to keep an eye on is that financial market participants ensure that, after the pandemic, capital buffers are rebuilt. This is not least pointed out by Finansinspektionen. The buffers that had been built up in the face of the crisis, including as a result of regulation, were now well-placed. Therefore, they will be rebuilt so that there is an airbag even in the next crisis. Madam President, I would like Despite overall good financial stability in Sweden, there are concerns here too. One of these, which has been repeatedly pointed out by both the IMF, the OECD and the EU as well as the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen, is the rising mortgages. Over-lending creates household vulnerability and risks spreading problems to other parts of the economy and society. Doing something about this is a political responsibility. Therefore, rules have also been introduced in several steps to create a healthy amortisation culture and to counter over-indebtedness among households. A mortgage cap was introduced in 2010. In 2016, an amortisation requirement was introduced, which means that new loans with over 50 and 70 per cent respectively will be amortised by at least 1 and 2 per cent respectively. In 2018, a stricter amortisation requirement was introduced, which means that households with a loan exceeding four and a half times the household's income will amortise an additional 1 per cent. The purpose of the requirements is to take into account the loan ratio in relation to both the value of the dwelling and household income. Creating a healthy amortisation culture and countering over-lending and indebtedness also has a restraining effect on house price increases. It is important to mention in this context that house prices and household mortgages are of course also affected by the availability of housing. Housing construction is central here, and since Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister in 2014, residential building has doubled compared to previous years. Housing construction is of course important for more reasons, but one is therefore financial stability. Questions about mortgages and amortisation requirements – or, as they are called, macroprudential measures – are important to monitor and evaluate. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, which is the responsible authority, has been tasked with carrying out an overall evaluation of the mortgage rate, amortisation requirements and other macroprudential measures. The evaluation will highlight the impact of the measures on lending, house prices and household indebtedness. In addition, the Government has decided to investigate how we can obtain statistics on household assets and liabilities without prejudice to personal integrity and the protection of personal data. Transparency and statistics on household assets and liabilities are an important piece of the puzzle for assessing financial stability. Finally, Madam President, financial stability is ultimately a democratic issue. Order and order give democratic society governance, build popular trust in our authorities and institutions and prevent society from falling into economic and social chaos where it becomes the right of the strong. Maintaining order and stability provides a better economy and more robust governance. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-Vweyf4KVVpKd34hL75hTen	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Mr Wiechel for his speech. I have a matter of fact-finding. On 12 January this year, the Socialist Group in the Committee on Civil Liberties wrote in a debate article in Fastighetstidningen, among other things: However, all the charges that have taken place over the last decade are unlikely to be justified. Above all, it is unreasonable to make such forward payments as is now the case. Young and first-time buyers are excluded because the amortisation is the most important at the beginning of a loan's maturity. For young people, this means that they should amortise at most when their income is at its lowest. A more balanced amortisation requirement for young people and first-time buyers would be desirable. ..................................................... These are the entrances to the discussion that I share. I can add that there are people higher up in the age group who have had a new life situation that would probably also benefit from lower demands on the functionality of the housing market. However, my question to the Socialist Member from the Committee on Finance is whether the Social Democrats in the Committee on Finance agree with the Social Democrats in the Civil Committee that a more balanced amortisation requirement for young and first-time buyers would be desirable.
i-CbXNoEKFAQxW91a8XW5zww	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the question! I'm familiar with that article. I have also spoken with my colleagues in the committee. As a party, we agree on the evaluation that Finansinspektionen will carry out in respect of all macroprudential measures – it is a mortgage cap and amortisation requirement – and what impact they have had on the housing market. But it's one aspect. To speak on behalf of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Finance: as a party, we agree to review this in order to get a good whole. But as a Committee on Finance, we also have the responsibility not only to hold a debate on housing policy but also to have a debate on financial stability. We see that international as well as national assessors have repeatedly pointed to this very issue, household indebtedness, and said that we have risks here that build up over time. If things go bad, or only if interest rates are raised or something else happens that creates a crisis, this will spread in society that is directly detrimental to our economy. We therefore have a responsibility to look at this from a wider perspective; it is all about economic and financial stability. We see that access to debt levels is justified – creating a healthy amortisation culture and reducing excessive debt. This is another responsibility, you might say. Then it is important that we also return to a debate on housing policy. In particular, the construction of housing itself is a very important issue. But in this report we are discussing financial stability.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-163	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Wiechel, for your answer! Nevertheless, I take it that there is no agreement within the Social Democrats. The Social Democrats in the Civil Committee not only say that it should be evaluated but also point out a direction and say that a more balanced amortisation requirement for young people and first-time buyers would be desirable. I believe that the Social Democrats in the Committee on Finance are not in favour of this sentence, and I regret that. Madam President, I would like In my view, we Members of Parliament, regardless of which committee we work in, need to look at the whole. Normally, I work mostly in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and one of the problems, beyond the pandemic, that entrepreneurs and job creators lift all the time when we talk to them is skills provision. There, the lack of housing is a hugely important explanation, as is the difficulties of an immobile housing market, which comes from, among other things, the tough amortisation requirements, the mortgage ceiling and so on. From a social democratic point of view, I might have hoped for a little more of a social or class-breaking policy, which I perceive is being pursued in this article, with a new self-home movement and a policy that leads to more people with low incomes also being able to own their housing. It is clear that, from a social democratic point of view in particular, I am thinking, this will create instability in society if we see a widening gap. And they are increasing mainly because of the income from capital. One way of getting to grips with this would be to make it easier even for low-income people to enter the market for owned dwellings and take part in value development while at the same time being able to put away even more savings because you do not have to pay for expensive rentals.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-166	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar, for your post! I welcome the fact that the Liberals are talking about class divisions and want to fight them. That is the lifeblood of our party, I would say. I also welcome the desire for a housing policy that can remedy this. We can certainly discuss how to even out gaps in the future by paying higher capital taxes and so on. As far as housing is concerned, I think it is important to highlight mixed residential areas with mixed leases. Member Forssell spoke earlier about Tensta, and I am thinking of some other municipalities, for example here in Stockholm, where there are almost no rentals at all, but only rich people's villas. You just don't want to build for everyone. You don't want them all. This is a problem that also creates a segregation in the city. We must have mixed neighborhoods. It provides much better social dynamics, combats segregation and allows us to live in the same residential area in different phases of life. It makes children meet and we get a much more democratic social development. But the basic issue here is that we need to build more housing, that the housing shortage is a problem. It is also this that causes prices to be tripped up. Since Stefan Löfven took office in 2014, housing construction has doubled because we believe that we need to build more housing. In my municipality of residence Umeå, we have set hugely high housing targets. We're building as much as we can because we want everyone to move in. It's about all kinds of leases because we want the very mixed city. But we also have a responsibility to ensure that we have financial stability that does not jeopardise the long-term ability of households to pay and the country's economic stability.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-172	Madam President, I would like I requested a reply a little too late, but this is addressed to Björn Wiechel and concerns his comments about gaps, which I think was very interesting in this context. My question is really quite simple. The Social Democrats are the party that has held the government power the longest of all parties in Sweden; they have been in power for 53 of the last 70 years. I wonder what responsibility the Social Democrats as a party have for the increased divides in society.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-173	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating government and statistical issues. In conclusion, the report deals with authorities. The task of the authorities is to apply the laws and carry out the activities decided upon by the Riksdag and the Government. The authorities should work for the citizens and be a service function for them. The Swedish Tax Agency is a good example – it made a strong move and succeeded. Under S-ledning there are signs that this work has stopped. There are authorities that have a growing activism among the staff. Unfortunately, this can be seen on several county boards and at Lantmäteriet. I get many testimonies about the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland, my constituency, regarding environmental activism among officials. Unfortunately, the county administrative boards are also authorities that do not speak to citizens with one voice, but applicants can get different answers depending on the department or person. Authorities cannot always be the solution. There must be a limit to how much the state will swell. Today, there are 458 authorities. Let me give you some examples. One is the Nordic Africa Institute, a centre for social science research on Africa. The agency is located in Uppsala. The latest authority is the Board for the Examination of Unfairness in Research. Then there is also the Board for Handicraft and the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak, which started in 2018. Madam President, I would like I want to tell you a little more about Mynak. The task of the Agency is to compile and disseminate knowledge about the working environment. Mynak, however, has major problems with their own work environment, so they in turn need to bring in consultants in the area. Several managers and employees have even stopped because the work environment has been so bad. Even a consulting firm that was involved in the business resigned from the assignment after being prevented from doing interviews with staff that had stopped. Employees at Mynak alert about Sweden's worst working environment. The Director-General has encouraged staff to wear short skirts and high heels. An employee was told that they were the fattest at the agency. The Moderates are constructive and have contributed many good contributions to today's case of government. The Swedish welfare model is based on a social contract between citizens and states. Sweden has the world's fifth highest tax burden, but it is not visible in terms of either our school results, accessibility in healthcare or police density. We have seen that serious crime is increasing, and the shootings reach levels that distinguish Sweden from other countries. In crises, it has repeatedly been shown that the Swedish Government is not on its toes, but is too big and too heavy a bureaucracy. The Moderates want to introduce civil servants' responsibilities, which would increase the strength of the authorities. Now the country is facing the fact that we have smaller vaccines, and it will take longer to get everyone vaccinated. It took a long time to close airports, and it took extra time to get rapid tests in place. The Moderates want fewer and more efficient authorities that focus on the core mission and reduce bureaucracy. The Moderates suggested that there should be a way in and that the data should be reconciled between authorities, so that the person should not have to repeat himself repeatedly. The Moderates have pressured the government through announcements that the authorities should be able to share information with each other quickly and efficiently in order to improve efficiency and curb cheating and crime. The authorities are also calling for coordination and more effective solutions. The tired government has not delivered this. It's very bad. During the last term of office, for example, the government raised taxes by SEK 60 billion and expenses by SEK 100 billion. Add to this the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. The need to prioritise the core of state and welfare missions is unlikely to have been greater in modern times. Sweden needs a government reform with the aim of both reducing the number of agencies and increasing their efficiency and focus on the core mission. The Moderates are behind all their motions, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation 1.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-185	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with some statistics and big surveys that have been done. Sweden is, I believe, the eighth best country in the world to live in. In terms of quality of life, we are third, and in terms of equality, we are second. As far as growing-up conditions are concerned, we are also in second place, and in terms of business friendliness, I think we were eight. We've done a lot of good things. Then there are things to improve. Economic inequality has increased greatly, particularly during the moderate-led government. That's what it looks like when the right is in control. It's kind of part of it. It's in their DNA. They lower taxes for those who are in the best position, and those who pay the bill for the rich are above all those who work in welfare, those who depend on welfare and the sick. That's what it looks like. The state has an important task as an employer. There are a great many people who are affected by the way in which the appropriations for the state authorities are listed. The entry into the list of government appropriations in the state budget presupposes that the activities can be more efficient each year, which in practice means that employees of the state authorities are forced to finance part of their own wage increase with increased workload. The appropriations are listed annually with an index for wage increases for officials in the manufacturing industry, but in order to force continuous efficiency improvements, a productivity reduction is then made, calculated on the basis of statistics for efficiency improvements in the private service sector. But, of course, the private service sector is not the same as the exercise of public authority. Constantly demanding efficiency improvements in the exercise of public authority on the basis of legal certainty leads to increased workload and work-related ill-health rather than new working methods. In theory, it is quite possible – it is in theory; it solves itself there – that the productivity requirement should give businesses incentives to switch to cheaper but better working methods. But how it should ultimately be done is not talked about in the state budget, but it is those who work in the business that will solve it. They shall, as well as ensure that the budget is kept at least maintained or, preferably, increased quality. But how, for example, will the treatment at Försäkringskassan be improved by a reduction in money for processing? How is the sick person handled by Försäkringskassan if there is always a need for efficiency improvements? How will participation be handled, such as participation in the insured person's rehabilitation? We have seen that Försäkringskassan has withdrawn in a comprehensive way from the rehabilitation of the sick. And how is the quality of the meeting between the employment intermediary and the long-term unemployed affected? How will it be possible to get support and help from the employment intermediary, and how will it be better if it needs to be made more effective all the time? At universities and higher education institutions, the requirement for efficiency efficiency means that the cost per graduate student must constantly be reduced. But how do you reduce teachers' time for students without suffering quality? At least I have not seen an answer, but perhaps those behind this model are giving the answers here today? I think the administrator at Försäkringskassan would appreciate the answer as well as the teacher at the university or the employment agency at Arbetsförmedlingen. Actually, they never got that answer. I request the approval of reservation 6. Finally, I would like to mention unemployment among people with disabilities. It is very high – significantly higher than in the population overall. Since 2016, the Government has been investing in creating internships for people with disabilities in different authorities, and this is a good and important reform. So far, 435 jobseekers have had traineeships in one of the more than 80 participating authorities. The initiative has now been extended. That is also a good thing, but the government should not be content with that. In order for people not to risk getting only one opportunity for internships, the next step needs to be taken. The government should therefore evaluate the reform, i.e. the existing investment in traineeships, in order to get more authorities to receive trainees and job seekers with disabilities and – which must also be part of the goal – in the long run offer them employment.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-194	Madam President, I would like This is about government. It is very important that we have good governance and good authorities that implement the political direction in Sweden and that also make decisions in a correct and well-founded way. In essence, this applies to Sweden, and we should be very grateful and proud of that, I think. We have an administration with very little corruption, very high quality and many irreproachable officials. It is also a strength for Sweden as a country. It makes it easier to trust decisions. This makes it easier to do business in Sweden. It also means that trust in authorities can be kept high, and this is something that is extremely important to protect. Having said that, we must also constantly look at efficiency. We should not expand the administration at an ever-faster pace but think about it, so that we can also be able to focus on the tasks that are the most important. That is why it is so important to consider each time before starting a new authority: Can the tasks be carried out by another authority? What data can we delete when we add new data and create new authorities? That's where we think the government has a job to do. You don't really do that kind of reflection. It is also important to work with efficiency at all times so that we can find more resources for core tasks, for welfare and for protecting the vulnerable, the fragile and the one who needs public assistance. It is then important to have good management, but it is also important that we work with efficiency. In the report, the Christian Democrats have a reservation, number 8, and I call for its approval. It is about the importance of transparency about public access and about the taxes and charges that we, as citizens, pay to the public. We believe that state employers should take the lead and clearly account for all taxes and contributions, including employers' contributions, contractual insurance and other things, paid by employers, so that it becomes visible to the workers. Some are already doing so, both in the private and public sectors, but we believe that this should be done throughout the state administration. Madam President, I would like In our budget exercise, we have proposed that the benchmark system should be changed in such a way that it will be less advantageous for authorities to place themselves in Stockholm's inner city and more favourable to place themselves in other places, not least in suburbs of our major cities and perhaps above all Stockholm, to contribute to better conditions in these districts. It is easy to get there with good public transport and clear skills and at the same time contribute to more stability, more jobs and more round-the-clock services and other things in areas that would serve this purpose. Not all authorities need to be in the inner city of Stockholm, Madam President.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-200	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the FIU25 report by the Committee on Finance, as many colleagues have already said. I am already in favour of the committee's proposal and rejection of the motions. State administration and statistical issues are various forms of exercise related to government structures, digitalisation and IT in general in the state administration. Government administration is an important issue for us. It is important for the state to assume its responsibility for the whole of Sweden and for Sweden to stick together. Then the state's local presence is A and O. People, towns and villages should not be left so that they feel abandoned. For a long time, people in our country have experienced the strong momentum of urbanisation, and in this connection many activities have disappeared from rural areas and even from ever larger towns, sometimes even entire municipalities. Even residents in the suburbs around Sweden feel that the service disappears in various centres, and the community's service but also the commercial service has disappeared in many places. The very experience of impoverishment is important. A survey by Statskontoret shows that citizens are almost twice as satisfied with the service when they have Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan and the police in the area. The presence of public authorities nearby is important for many citizens, especially those living in rural areas. However, geographical proximity is not the most important factor in contact with the authorities, but it is much more important to find answers to questions and to proceed quickly, regardless of the type of area in which you live. Madam President, I would like There are several gains in having a state presence throughout the country. Democracy is strengthened with an increased state presence, and this is very important in these times. We can see that the citizens of the country are happier to have authorities in their localities than the Stockholmers are many times, if I may say so. I think this is because you take it for granted – there are not many people around here who are worried that different authorities will disappear. It's kind of part of the city. The country's economic growth is also benefiting. A previous investigation from Statskontoret says that you can't see any direct dynamic effects, but I can promise that out in those places in the country where the authorities are large employers, the people are quite satisfied that they have a job and not very worried about any shortcomings in dynamic effects. For us Social Democrats, the authorities are an important addition to the local labour market, not least because they often offer interesting career paths. Madam President, I would like Sweden has among the best conditions when it comes to digitalisation. Digitalisation is an important tool for improving the efficiency of public administration, and public authorities need to work together better. The Pandemin has put our entire community in lightning. I don't need to remind anyone here. Not least, it has shown the need for digitalisation and how digitalisation opens new doors to keep in contact with loved ones. Many people also work from home today and know how important this is. Already before the pandemic, there was intensive digitalization work in our Swedish authorities, and there are a number of investigations on the government table to strengthen the authorities' work on digitalisation as well as open data. Many times we highlight those who work in health care and how important they are to us, but there are many within the various authorities today who receive threats and hatred and who really have a hell of a thing. I would therefore like to pay tribute to all those who work within our authorities but above all to those who have received many different tasks and right now have a misery in making it work. They succeed very well, so all credit to them!
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-209	Madam President, I would like Almost exactly a year ago, I started the debate on municipal issues with these words: The EU and Sweden are currently experiencing a number of serious threats to well-being, economics and security. It is not possible to debate issues relating to the finances of the state and municipalities without pointing out the consequences that we may have to experience from the Corona virus, concerns about new large-scale flows of asylum and a threatening recession. Sweden enters this situation with record weak conditions: the fastest rising unemployment rate in the EU, the weakest economic growth in the EU and a very high unemployment rate for having just gone through a strong boom. On top of this, we have too many municipalities with very weak economies. ..................................................... It turned out that the concern was very justified. At the same time, a lot has happened in the local government sector over the past year. Not least, with the support of the other opposition, the Moderates have been the driving force for strengthening the finances of the municipalities. It started with the Moderates succeeding in unifying the opposition for additional support of 7 1⁄2 billion already in early 2020. On 30 March 2020, the Moderates proposed an extra 15 billion for the local government sector as crisis support. Three days later, the government announced that it was following our line and decided to propose just 15 billion extra to the local government sector. It has been extremely valuable and secured welfare during a serious crisis. In fact, the local government sector overall went in surplus last year, giving many municipalities and regions room to put money into the earnings equalisation reserve for the coming years. Setting up a municipal performance compensation reserve was, by the way, one of my most important issues when I was elected to Parliament in 2006. I did exercise about it several times, and I am very pleased that this became a reality. We know that more than 60 per cent of Swedish municipalities have used the opportunity since it was introduced on 1 January 2013 and that this has led to more stable planning for the local government sector and many saved welfare jobs when the economy has been weak in some years. Now that we are dealing with this motion for a resolution, it may be useful to remind you that individual motions can actually influence politics. The Moderates have now, together with the other opposition, also promoted extra support for elderly care in the coming years. This is extremely important in the light of the pandemic and the Corona Commission report. The proposals mean more than 4.3 billion extra to convert hourly contracts into open-ended contracts, strengthen medical skills and hire more nurses for special accommodations, and support for building more elderly housing. The intention of the Moderates is to continue with these efforts even in the coming years. Madam President, I would like The strengthening of the Moderates, in cooperation with other parties, forced the last year to the local government sector means that the municipalities and regions have a fairly stable economic situation despite the pandemic. But money isn't everything. There are many other things to deal with. It is sufficient to mention historically high long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, major problems with integration and social exclusion areas, growing insecurity, poor school outcomes, a great need to strengthen elderly care and a large build-up of care debt in the tracks of the pandemic, as well as neglected maintenance of roads, streets, buildings and wake-ups in many municipalities. What is most worrying right now is probably the historically high unemployment and exclusion in our already socially vulnerable areas. Unfortunately, this cannot be blamed on the pandemic. For the first time since Sweden joined the EU, Sweden in 2019 had higher unemployment than the EU average, and developments have continued in the wrong direction even in 2020. It has therefore become exactly the opposite of the promise made by future Prime Minister Lövven before the 2014 elections, that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. In 2014, Sweden was 12th among the EU countries in terms of low unemployment. Today, we are in 22nd place out of 28 countries, despite the fact that the years 2014 – 2019 were characterised by a very strong boom. In 25 out of 27 EU countries, unemployment fell between 2014 and 2019. In only three countries it increased, and in Sweden most of all. In addition, during the 2020 pandemic, only four countries in the EU experienced less labour market development than Sweden. If this is to be broken, all forces must pull in the same direction, and there the municipalities have an important task. A key issue for combating unemployment is to have a favourable business environment that creates more jobs. If this is to succeed, municipalities must treat traders with respect. Part of this is to have a good service, another is to charge reasonable fees for supervisory matters and not to charge for supervision that is not carried out. The Swedish Parliament has recently decided, in line with an EU regulation, that food control should be charged after the inspection. We think that Moderates are very welcome. However, we believe that this should apply to all municipal control activities. We have a number of individual moderate motions on this issue, the proposals of which are, in essence, also presented in one of our committee motions. I therefore propose that reservation 3 be approved. Madam President, I would like The costs ahead of the local government sector can only be financed at the margin by the State through increased state subsidies or tax relief. In essence, municipalities themselves must create fiscal power that is sufficient for the municipality's costs. A good business environment is crucial, and companies that run different forms of public-funded welfare have a given place. At the same time, municipalities and regions must give priority to spending. And prioritising also means, as you know, prioritising away what is less important. Not all activities in the local government sector are statutory. And when it comes to voluntary activities, there is a good opportunity for municipalities to reduce costs in favour of core tasks. The discussion on targeted or general state grants and the design of the municipal equalisation system are recurring topics for many parliamentary movements. I would like to pay particular attention to the individual moderate movements and our comitology exercise in this area. The committee proposes rejecting all of them. However, this is mainly due to the fact that the Riksdag has recently decided to set up an investigation that reviews the entire municipal equalisation system, that the Finance Committee previously stated that general state grants should be the starting point and that targeted state grants should primarily be used for specific areas with major development needs. It can be noted that the proposals in the motions in important parts have therefore been met. Madam President, I would like Some voices on the left are raised because we need to raise taxes in order to save elderly care, school, health care, assistance and everything else that we regard as important parts of welfare, while at the same time strengthening the police, the judiciary and renovating the infrastructure. Of course, it may sound like an impossibility to reduce taxes and, at the same time, invest more in welfare. But that is exactly what we Moderates advocate. How does that make sense? The fault that many do is to assume that all our taxes go to welfare. That's not what it looks like. Our tax money is lost on a lot of other things than things that are important for the well-being of the Swedish people. We in Sweden pay almost the highest taxes worldwide. If high taxes were the solution, our welfare should already be in the top class. In Moderate budgets in recent years, we have invested much more in welfare than the government, not least support for municipalities and for regional health care. Thus, at the beginning of last year, together with other parties, we managed to force an extra contribution to the municipalities and regions. And during the pandemic, we have continued to push for more support for health care and our municipalities. In the budget for 2021 – 2023, we provide municipalities with a lot more money than the government base. In addition, there is an additional investment of a number of billions in care for the elderly. How do we get this from the Moderates? Yes, we get that through priority. Sweden is one of three countries in the world that provides the most money in aid to other countries and far more than the UN target of 0.7 per cent of GDP. In fact, today we are giving so much that it is not even possible to find good things to bet on. Instead, we put money in the UN's great bureaucracy and let the UN consume the money and lose control of where the money goes. Today, we are giving twice as much aid as the entire police budget. The Moderates want to reduce aid to just over 0.7% of GDP, which means that we are still the fifth most generous country in the world. But it releases almost SEK 16 billion that we can use for other things here at home in Sweden. The government also spends billions on pointless and ineffective climate policy. According to most experts, the money will not affect the global climate even measurablely. The Moderates cut off ineffective climate action and eliminate pointless building subsidies. It frees up billions more. We are also tightening up migration policy. We say no to the government's proposal to loosen asylum policy and introduce amnesty-like derogations for people without asylum grounds. We are introducing qualification for welfare, premium ceilings, abolition of guarantee pension for new arrivals, abolition of survivors' support for allegedly deceased in the home country and activity requirements in the supply support. This saves a further number of billions. In addition to this, we are abolishing a number of authorities and stopping massive increases in various benefit systems. This is how we create moderate space in our budget to provide additional money to the municipalities, health care, the police and the judiciary, and at the same time to reduce taxes for both employees and pensioners. In addition to this, we have a major crisis buffer in our budget. And we also have less deficits than the government base. With a government that prioritises the right things, you can both give welfare more money and lower taxes for ordinary people. It's no harder than that. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the Moderates are a guarantor of freeing up more money for the welfare of municipalities, regional health care, the police and legal security, while reducing the tax burden. It is possible if you prioritise the right things in the state budget. At the same time, we want to encourage and stimulate development, innovation, efficiency and smarter ways of working in the municipal sector. We also want to prioritise what we all put first – the care for the sick, the elderly and the disabled, and a good upbringing and education for our children. If high taxes were a guarantor of this, we would have no problem. We already have almost the highest tax burden in the world. The problem is not that there is a lack of money, but how the money is spent. Our tax money simply goes too little to welfare and too much to other things. We Moderates intend to change that when we take over government power.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-240	Madam President, I would like Stefan Löfven accuses the opposition in Sweden of being undemocratic. It's the last card we have to play, as an S-strateg says in the paper. These are accusations that are usually heard from regimes in countries that are not democratic. The aim is to divide and divide, not only between parties but between people – all in order for the Social Democrats to retain power. This is a dangerous road. It damages the cohesion of our country. What we are seeing now is a desperate social democracy heading straight downhill. For almost seven years, Stefan Lövven's government has ruled Sweden. The problems are great, but the voter's confidence is small. Stefan Lövven's government has failed with most of it. In Sweden, a person is shot to death almost every week, and there is a shooting almost every day. This is an increase of 50 percent since Stefan Löfven took over. The risk of robbery and sexual crime has more than doubled. Evaluate me on the job! Stefan Löfven said before the 2014 election. Now we've got the facts. Unemployment and exclusion are growing. Sweden is at the bottom of the EU. We've never had as many long-term unemployed before. The government's crisis management capabilities failed to cope with a pandemic. Decisions on testing, protective equipment and restraining orders in retirement homes were delayed for months. Now we see the same thing repeating itself with the vaccine, and the government ducks for all questions about how to complete the vaccine target by the end of June. My question to Stefan Löfven – if for a short time he can think of talking about political issues and Sweden's problems and not just slander everyone else – is: Is Stefan Löfven satisfied with the development in Sweden for the last seven years?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-246	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have never accused the opposition, as Ulf Kristersson now says, of not being democratic. However, I think that Ulf Kristersson shows a certain desperation, and that is because Ulf Kristersson, who is a democrat, would like to hook his arm with a party whose roots we know very well. It is a party that does not stand up for people's equal value. Of course, I find this more distressing for the Moderates than for us. This discussion must be kept going. I will be holding a discussion about values, views on man, and politics. Both of these perspectives must be maintained. Let's take the jobs as an example. Before the pandemic, 350 000 jobs had been created under the Social Democratic-led government. Let me remind Ulf Kristersson that it was twice the pace of what the bourgeois government achieved. We have also strengthened the economy. We have made structural changes in terms of defence – the defence that Ulf Kristersson and the government that he put in called for a special interest. We have turned this around and made a big effort on it – in cooperation with others, it should be said, but we have been the ones who have been pushing this. In the field of justice, far too few policemen were trained under the bourgeois government. We train more than twice as many people. Now we have more police officers than we have ever had in Sweden, and we have 3 000 more in education. We will see much of that reinforcement in the future. I think that Kristersson should take a little thought and compare the two government periods. Am I happy? You'll never be satisfied. We're always going forward.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-252	Madam President, I would like I didn't say Stefan Löfven didn't do anything. I told him he failed. I didn't say he hasn't tried. I said tryin' isn't good enough. If you have the kind of problems that Sweden has today, it is not good enough to try to do something about them. You have to take on the really big tasks and do something about the problems rather than blame the way everything was before. Stefan Löfven mixes the cards away. The party that has led Sweden throughout the post-war period, with a few exceptions, and systematically leaned its power on communists should now lecture others when we want to tackle concrete problems together with parties on issues where we feel the same. The difference between me and Stefan Löfven is that I don't think like him. So I do not sell out my own political convictions on issues in order to retain power. I use my conviction with others to solve problems.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-256	Madam President, I would like No, there's nothing to blame here. But it is very important to compare. Then we'll compare in the field of defense. What did it look like then, under the bourgeois government? What's it look like now? Make that comparison! Make the comparison with efforts on the judicial system! Make comparisons of laws, where we tighten 50 laws and introduce 20 new crimes! There was nothing in the drawers of the bourgeois government when we took office. This comparison has to be made. I am proud of the fact that Sweden has one of Europe's strongest economies and that we were able to tackle the pandemic in a way that few countries could do because we have such a strong economy. I am still equally obsessed with combating crime, and we see that it is possible to achieve results in Malmö, for example. But we have to do much, much more. Then we have to have more cops, and that's what this government is making it happen.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-261	Madam President, I would like I could use this speaking time to talk about the Prime Minister's love for North Korea, Venezuela and China. I would say that Stefan Löfven is Sweden's answer to Donald Trump, at least regarding the sometimes embarrassing, somewhat immature and sharp rhetoric, which only polarizes society. But, Madam President, I intend to stay too good to sink to that level. You only get dirty if you wrestle down there in the Social Democratic mud. Instead, I am going to ask Prime Minister Stefan Löfven some rather simple yes-or-no questions to make it easy for him to answer and to give voters the information that I think they want in terms of substance policy and what we are going to do about real problems for real people in the real reality. Does the Prime Minister understand that he is responsible for Sweden's failed pandemic strategy and for the possible vaccination failure? Does the Prime Minister understand that he is responsible for the closest foreign electricity supply we have in Sweden today? Does the Prime Minister understand that he is responsible for the inhuman, heartbreaking way in which the government treats sick people in this country, as Mission audit showed yesterday? Does the Prime Minister understand that he is responsible for a complete avalanche of gang rapes, killings, stabbings, bombings and so on? Finally, Madam President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: will Stefan Löfven respect the election results in 2022?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-268	Madam President, I would like This was already evident in the question of the possible vaccination failure. You don't know if it's a failure or not, but it has to be portrayed as a failure – the possible failure. We have a pandemic in our country; it has hit Sweden and the whole world. Very few know anything about how this virus acts. We are in the midst of the pandemic, and unfortunately neither we nor a large part of Europe and the world are seeing the end yet. We still don't know exactly how it's going. A year ago, according to many, it was very clear how bad things went in Sweden and how well things went in, for example, the Czech Republic or Portugal. Six months later, another country had been affected. There we are still; we do not know how this ends. Therefore, my response to the corona and the management of the Corona is that the evaluation must take place when this is over. It's not over yet. As far as vaccination is concerned, I firmly believe that the cooperation we have within the framework of the European Union is what has enabled us to begin vaccination at all here and now. Now we are up to over 1.2 million vaccinations. This has its challenges; there is no doubt about it. But to think that all of a sudden there is some other solution or some other shelf to buy from is far too naive. Crime is a very systematic approach. That is why, as I said before, we now have more policemen than ever in Sweden. Another 3,000 are in training to ensure security. This is also why we can see an improvement in Malmö; the shootings have now decreased four years in a row. We're not home because we're not done. But this is the way we have to go, and then we actually have to invest a lot of resources.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-273	Madam President, I would like I noted that the Prime Minister did not answer yes or no to the questions that could have been answered by yes or no, and it was perhaps not entirely unexpected. I also noted that the Prime Minister hung himself up on the concept of a possibility. Let us say, instead, the probable failure, and so we have said. My point here, Madam President, is not really to receive answers from the Prime Minister during the Prime Minister's Question Time, because it is not usually given. My point is to show that the Swedish Prime Minister is completely uninterested in talking about what he is actually responsible for. My point is that the Prime Minister and what his government representatives are now engaged in, with extremely polarising and unworthy rhetoric in the debate, only occurs because it is the only chance Stefan Löfven has to stay in power. I am not going to drop to that level, Madam President. I'm going to talk about real problems for real people in real life.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-277	Madam President, I would like I am happy to talk about jobs and the fact that we have increased employment by 350 000 jobs. Together with Germany, we have the highest employment rate in the EU. If we had an employment rate like the EU average, we would have 450 000 fewer in work. I'd be happy to tell you that we're fixing up the defense. I'd be happy to tell you that we're fixing up the police and the judiciary. I would like to say that we are building much more housing. I am happy to say that pensions are increasing; the income of pensioners has increased by around SEK 2 000 per month on average. I would also like to say that we have removed the unfair taxation of pensioners. I am happy to tell you that we have 100 000 more people employed in Swedish welfare. I would like to say that we have a record addition to health care, to care for the elderly and to school. I'm happy to continue talking politics.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-283	Madam President, I would like It's been a dark year, but the vaccine is the light in the tunnel. This is what enables us to return so slowly to normality. Therefore, a functioning and rapid vaccination process throughout the country is crucial. The regions point out that they are ready. They have announced that they will be able to vaccinate 1.2 million people per week if only the vaccine comes in a steady flow. The problem is that the doses of the vaccine are delayed. There is an imminent risk of a large majority of vaccination doses coming in early summer. The question then is whether there is enough capacity to vaccinate an even greater number of people in a short time. This issue is absolutely central. A clear leadership that is one step ahead is A and O to succeed in repressing the spread of infection and in managing the mutated viruses through an effective detection of infection. It is also important to have a well-thought out plan for how the vaccinations should be carried out. We cannot wait and see, but we must be fully prepared for different scenarios in the future. We have already asked for a plan B and plan C from the government to deal with the situation that may arise when large doses come for a short time or in a situation where unfortunately the vaccination target is not reached. There must be a strategy for how vaccination can be made more effective and how the capacity can be increased once the doses are in place. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: what exactly do the Government's Plan B and Plan C look like in order to guarantee the regions the support they need to be able to vaccinate them over 18 years for a shorter period of time in order to reach the vaccination target? And if the target is not reached, what is the plan to ensure that as many people as possible get the vaccination as quickly as possible, so that we can start opening up our society again?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-289	Madam President, I would like This is exactly the point – that as many people as possible should receive vaccination as quickly as possible. That is why we have agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions; the state, the government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions agree on this objective. According to the information I have received in recent days, Swedish Municipalities and Regions still say that this is possible but that it is getting very tough. Then you get to have both a plan B, a plan C, a plan D and a plan E. The difficulty is that we cannot sit here and decide that we should have si and so much vaccine, but the vaccines are delivered from producing companies. On the same day, we are told both that we can get 10 million more doses at EU level via Pfizer and Bontech and that, unfortunately, Astra Zeneca's deliveries will be reduced. We also have a concern that regions and countries around the world are holding back supplies. It is not a question of direct export bans or export bans, but of what is sometimes referred to as re-priorities in terms of what to export. From EU territory, companies have exported 40 million doses, I think, but from the USA, India and the UK there will be no doses to the EU. That is why I spent the weekend talking, among other things, with the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen and with Mrs Astra Zeneca. I have also spoken to the Prime Minister of Portugal, António Costa, about what we can do to ensure that these flows work. The EU is not a producer or importer of this; we are coordinating. Then we must make flows that are world-wide continue to work, and they are not quite doing so now. We have to make an effort to get the deliveries we are promised and more, and that is done on a daily basis. But we cannot say exactly what deliveries are coming, because that is the responsibility of companies.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-296	Madam President, I would like The reason I'm asking is that there's a big and heavy responsibility on the government to have both a plan A, B and C. As the Prime Minister raised, there are now many clouds of concern, and we cannot fully predict what the deliveries will look like. For this reason, we must do what we can nationally to support the regions in having sufficient capacity once the doses come. Vaccination is a crucial part of defeating the virus, and every day that goes without the vaccine is game with life and health. I assume the government does what you can. But my point is that we must not end up in a situation where Sweden in a short time in May – June receives a very large amount of doses that must be put on the shelf because we do not have enough capacity to use the doses so that people are vaccinated. We must therefore pressurise and safeguard the conditions of the regions.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-302	Madam President, I would like I repeat that the government works with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions in this, and it is the regions that explain how much capacity they have. Yesterday, Lena Hallengren and I were on a virtual visit to Kalmar to see how Kalmar, Oskarshamn and Borgholm work. They said they have the capacity to do this if they get many doses. It can be difficult if they get a lot at the end, but so far they think it will work. It was a bit of fun that they called the retired nurses who come in and vaccinate for perennials, and they stand ready. If it comes too little in quarter 1 and very much should be taken in quarter 2 then it will be difficult, and it is both the regions and we see. But, of course, no one has an ambition other than as many as possible as quickly as possible.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-305	Madam President, I would like Yesterday we were all able to see a very shattering report on health insurance in Mission review. It was about Marie-Louise-Louise Järlesand in Degerfors who for a long time had been seriously ill and suddenly lost her sickness benefit. The background was that the Government has given Försäkringskassan clear instructions to reject more applications for sickness benefit. Of course, everyone wants to reduce ill health in society, and that is the mission of society as a whole, employers and health care. But giving such an instruction to Försäkringskassan can only lead to sick people losing their income, for that is the tool that the Försäkringskassan has. Last year, in the midst of a pandemic, a record number of sickness benefit applications were rejected. That's how Swedish health insurance works. Last autumn, the Left Party succeeded in pushing through a change in legislation. If you go into the Social Democrats Facebook page you can see that the Social Democrats take credit for this and say that more people should be able to keep their sickness benefit after day 180. At the same time, the government gives instructions to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to reject more applications. In other words, sickness benefits should be pushed down and reduced further, in the midst of a pandemic and already with a record number of rejections. With one hand you change the legislation, and with the other hand you instruct the authority to reject more applications. The Prime Minister will be happy to explain to me how this goes together. Tell Marie-Louise-Louise and others why it is so important that more severely ill people should be rejected when they apply for sickness benefit.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-312	Madam President, I would like The Constitution says that a government must not go into the decisions of individual authorities. It is the authority that decides whether or not to reject it, not the government. The government can't go in there and tell the government to do this or that. During the last term of office, however, the government had a report to reduce sickness rates in Sweden because we have significantly increased sickness rates. There is no point in having people walking sick, but the development became unhappy with falling compensation and rejection at 180 days. That is why we also gave the last parliamentary term clear instructions to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that this should not be the case. There must be a much greater responsibility for people to receive both compensation and a way back with effective rehabilitation, and so we held a dialogue with the parties. The House may remember that a minister was strongly questioned because the government and the government felt that the authority did not handle this satisfactorily and that the Director-General of the agency then felt that she did not have the government's trust and resigned. There was a terrible life in this House – even from the Left Party, which questioned how the government could do so. But we wanted to correct a wrong direction. We cannot lie down in individual cases, but we can rule the authorities. We wanted to do that, but among others the Left Party felt it was more important that the leadership of the agency should remain and continue than that we should have made a change. That's too bad.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-318	Madam President, I would like To be honest, I do not really know what the Prime Minister is referring to. What has happened is that we have achieved a change in legislation aimed at allowing more people to retain their sickness benefit during rehabilitation. At the same time, the government is sending signals to its authority to push down sickness benefits. That is what this issue is about. For many Swedes, it is probably hypocritical that the government on the one hand says that health insurance should be more secure, on the other hand the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is pressing to reject more. How does this make sense?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-321	Madam President, I would like We've removed the sickness benefit rate of 9.0. Preparation is also under way to change the regulation letter so that it does not become the type of refusal that Nooshi Dadgostar mentions. We are negotiating this with the other three parties in the cooperation. We will strengthen health insurance so that you have financial security. But I am equally determined that we also need to get a better order for how people get back to work in a dignified way. The most important thing for us must be that people actually come back to work, but it must be done in a dignified way. With a good health insurance, a sickness benefit and rehabilitation that works and preventive work environment work, we get down sickness rates in a dignified way.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-325	Madam President, I would like My question is prompted by yesterday's interview, which Prime Minister Stefan Löfven recently granted to SVT. The question is: Does the Prime Minister think that Sweden's democracy is under threat? In fact, given the enormous weight of the issue, there are many of us who would appreciate a yes or a no.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-328	Madam President, I would like It depends on the country's development. We have a strong democracy at its core. I'm very happy about that. But democracy must be safeguarded. We must protect democracy. We must strengthen democracy. Nothing can be taken for granted. We have seen this in other countries. We see it in the world around us, for example in the European Union, especially in Hungary. The independence of the judiciary is restricted. The independence of the free media is being curtailed. The freedom of the Academy – the freedom of universities and colleges – is restricted. We have seen developments in the United States that are very frightening to me. One of the world's largest democracies is faced with something that is terrible and is still going on. I believe that around the states of the United States there are now about fifty proposals on how to limit people's ability to vote. My point is, take nothing for granted! The answer to the question is that it depends entirely on what development we ourselves choose. I am therefore surprised that the Christian Democrats choose cooperation with a party that does not stand up for this. In their principle program, they write: People's government is probably right. It's folk rule we're supposed to have. It's the people who will rule. Then there are a few sentences further down: the question is just what people it is. Who are the people who are going to rule? They probably say that not everyone in charge today should. Probably some people aren't supposed to be around. I don't know who. That question must be put to the Swedish Democrats. Above all, we are not afraid of public service, which I see as a very strong part of democracy, but we want to restrict it. It has the objective that development must look like Hungary and Poland. Let's watch out.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-332	Madam President, I would like When it was not thought that the level of debate in Sweden could fall lower, Stefan Löfven takes out the shovel and starts digging. In fact, I cannot interpret the recent statements and this interview in any other way. The sum of what is said is that the Prime Minister indicates that democracy would be threatened at a change of government where the Christian Democrats and the Moderates take over government power. Then I wonder: What is the prime minister's justification for saying that? With all due respect to the parties in here, I can say that there are many bad proposals that many parties are pushing. But I am not in fact right to say that a single party is pushing proposals that would restrict freedom of expression or our free media, that it does not stand up for the fundamental principles of the rule of law or that democracy would be threatened. On the contrary, we have dealt with other parties in good parliamentary order. It has served Sweden well and not threatened democracy.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-334	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and the Moderates are democratic parties. I haven't said anything else. But you shouldn't be so naive as to think that a party will sit down and say: You can do whatever you want—we will support everything. It won't happen, Ebba Busch. In a municipality in Skåne where the Swedish Democrats have the power, possibly the municipality of Hörby, they got rid of almost all the committees and introduced a committee. Thus, of course, one could direct the entire municipality's activities. A number of elected representatives are no longer present. This is a restriction on democracy, in my view. If a party acts in this way locally and thinks that Poland and Hungary are shining examples, then I think we should be careful.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-338	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Prime Minister about the core values of democracy and the protection of victims and witnesses. A strong democracy requires several basic elements, of which the rule of law is one. It is about being able to balance and meet legal certainty and legal certainty requirements. It is about crime never paying off and about ensuring that victims and victims get the necessary protection and redress if they still have their rights violated. It is part of the very foundation of the social contract that we feel it. The Swedish people have never declared themselves to be more insecure than today, according to the studies that are being done and have been done over time. We see how serious crime spreads terror in the country. People are being threatened, harassed, blackmailed and murdered further down the age line. Serious crime eats its way into the social body. In this situation, it is very important that a great deal of action is taken. We also need to have a system in which we protect the people who testify, because it is when you witness in court that people can actually be prosecuted at all and then possibly convicted, so that criminals get the judgment they deserve. Today, more than 5,000 cases of legal abuse are reported on an annual basis. This is a sign that our courts are becoming quieter and quieter, that more and more people are afraid to talk, that the democratic cornerstone of the rule of law is being undermined. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: does he share the view that the rule of law is under pressure if witnesses are threatened to the extent that is happening today, and what does he intend to do about it?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-342	Madam President, I would like I will, of course, answer yes to that question. If it is the case that Witnesses are threatened, feel pressured, and do not dare to witness, it is clear that it is a dangerous development. However, I would like to say that we now have about a thousand more criminals, especially from the criminal gangs, in detention centres and prisons. Something has demonstrably happened. The prisons are full. Now we must also work to stop the influx into gang crime. The area that Johan Pehrson is in is important. That's why we're assigning an investigator to look at whether there's a possibility and it's appropriate, for example, to introduce a punitive remedy for the one standing up and testifying – we're talking about Crown Witnesses – and whether you can improve protection. Would it be possible to testify anonymously? There are many who believe that there is a great risk of anonymous witnesses, but we want to look at it, because it can be a way to strengthen the opportunity for more people to have the courage to testify. Then, of course, it is a matter of improving support for witnesses and strengthening the protection of witnesses. That is what needs to be done – a battery of measures. We must ensure that this whole system works, because it is fundamental to the judicial system itself, and not least to put an end to those who commit crimes, especially gang criminals. That is why we have so far increased 50 sentences and introduced 20 new criminal offences, as I said earlier. We train more than twice as many police officers as we did before. This is connected. We are rough-handed here and now against organised crime, and that stops the influx. That's the deal.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-346	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Of course, a great deal of action has been taken during the term of office to strengthen law enforcement authorities. It is an important part of what is known as the January Agreement. We are faced with discussions on our amending budget and our budget, and we will have an autumn budget. Liberals are strong supporters of the fact that there will be billions more then, and we are pushing for this. Today there are queues to our courts. This too is a problem of legal certainty. The fact that many people are currently in our detention centres is due not least to the fact that the French and Belgian police have made great efforts by breaking the code of communication of the serious criminal international gangs. They've been picked up one by one like a rosary. We thank them very much for that. Could the Prime Minister now consider tightening up the penalty for abuse of justice? Can he consider ensuring that we have witness protection extended to other countries? Are there any more concrete suggestions to protect witnesses? It's an emergency.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-349	Madam President, I would like Yes, it was an important effort made by French and Belgian police, which broke the codes. However, even before this happened, we had started a substantial increase in the number of detainees and detainees, not least because we tightened the legislation in such a way that anyone who goes out with a gun in his pocket and does not get out for at least two years. It has made a substantial impact, as well as camera monitoring, the possibility of data reading and so on. The answer is yes. In the investigation, we also want to make an assessment as to whether the scale of penalties for the abuse of a judicial case, perjury or protection of a criminal should be tightened. It's part of that package. As far as possible anonymous witnesses, witness protection and crown witnesses, as I said earlier, it's a package. It shall be reviewed in its entirety.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-352	Madam President, I would like Since 1 January 2000, more than 300 women have been killed in our country by men close to them. They left over 250 children, and 100 children were present at the time of the murders. The women were killed by a man they've loved and lived with. Many more are subjected to abuse, both psychologically and physically. Nevertheless, it will not be the big headlines in the media. It is not that our phones and screens are filled with news flashes, but it is the invisible violence. Far too often we still talk about relationship trouble or family tragedy. At the same time, it is about something quite different. It's about serious crimes. It's about murder, assault, and feminism. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is the government doing to combat men's violence against women in our country? It is one of our truly great societal challenges.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-356	Madam President, I would like I am glad that question comes up. Violence against women, violence in close relationships, violence against children and violence that children become spectators of is a tragedy for those affected by it. It is also something for the whole of society. It's a problem for all of us. That is why, during the last parliamentary term, I worked out a ten-year strategy to combat men's violence against women. It was made under Åsa Regnér's leadership and was developed in 2016. What we do is strengthen the resources of the judiciary. We're tightening up the legislation. This applies, for example, to violations online but also to sexual crimes. We have introduced a whole new sex crime law. It is also about the so-called honour crimes. I have a hard time combining honor and crime, but it's now called that. Then prevention is incredibly important. It is a question of improving the detection of men's violence against women by professionals. That is why we have provided this education for lawyers, physiotherapists, doctors, psychologists and others.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-361	Madam President, I would like Forget the haters! Forget the haters! So Tusse sang in the mellofinal. The words struck my heart and strengthened my conviction that those of us who want democracy must continue to fight for a society in which no voices are silenced. It is a society in which 70% of journalists who are women are considering leaving their jobs. It is a society in which people self-censor themselves in order to avoid racist-tailed hatred in social media. It is a threat to democracy. When people's voices are silenced, democracy is silenced. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that all voices can be heard?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-364	Madam President, I would like We have been working for some years on an action plan called the defence of the free word. It is a comprehensive strategy to combat and prevent threats to journalists, for example, but also elected representatives, artists and other opinion-makers. It's based on three parts. It is first and foremost to increase knowledge about the vulnerability to threats and hatred. It is to offer support to victims, and it is to strengthen the work of the judiciary. The concrete thing that has come out is compensation for the victims. It's something new. We've introduced something called an illegal breach of privacy. It is a new piece of legislation. We have extended the concept of illegal threats to cover more and more perpetrators to be hit by this. It is also about forcing network platforms to remove illegal threats from their platforms. Democracy depends entirely on people having the courage to speak. This applies not least to journalists and elected representatives.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-368	Madam President and the Prime Minister. Despite what the government has done in the area of justice, it is a fact that crime is getting stuck in Sweden. It is also a fact that never before have so many people in our country felt so insecure. We are also seeing developments in which crime is spreading further and further down the age range. Against this background, it is important that police and prosecutors have the right tools. It is about the right tools to prosecute more people, to investigate more crimes, to give more victims redress and to prevent even more people from becoming victims. Now the government has today presented a bill that sets time limits for arrests. It's a bill that a lot of cops have warned about. It's a bill that the Prosecution Authority warns of could have devastating consequences. How can the government present such a bill that will impair the possibilities of investigating serious crime?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-372	Madam President, I would like I can't do that investigation without and before. We are doing everything we can to speed up the whole chain of justice. I think that's important. We have been able to see that the experiments that have been conducted here in Stockholm have been active. We've been able to shorten the time from arrest to sentence and punishment by a lot of time. It needs to be expanded. I cannot answer the question of the precise legislation. Of course, the responsible Government must do so. But it is important for us to constantly extend and strengthen the laws. That is why we have tightened 50 penalties and introduced 20 new penalties. We will continue on that theme. You have to investigate that. During the course of the investigation and consultation, it may be shown whether it is good enough or whether it should be changed. The process will show that.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-376	Madam President, I would like The Agency for Health and Care Analysis has recently presented a report comparing healthcare in Sweden with ten other comparable countries. The result for Sweden is disappointing. Swedish care shows clear shortcomings and performs weak results internationally when it comes to areas such as waiting times, continuity and coordination. Having to wait a long time for care does not just mean stress and anxiety for patients. It may also increase the risk of worsening the medical condition. Long waiting times in healthcare are not a new phenomenon. The current government has soon had two mandates to improve access to healthcare, which it has not been able to cope with. At the same time, we must now shoulder a health debt as a result of the pandemic. Therefore, I would like the Prime Minister to respond if the Government intends to take further action to really address these serious shortcomings.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-379	Madam President, I would like The answer is yes. Since we took office in the last parliamentary term, we have made a substantial contribution to health care and continue to do so. The additional resources that go to the regions are intended to also ensure that the queues are shortened. The picture is right when it comes to the queues. We must attack that. But the medical results in Swedish healthcare are world class. These are very good results. If you have good results, you also want to make sure that people get into healthcare faster. That short queues are an important ingredient. That's why we changed the previous queue system. We must also ensure that the person most in need comes first to care. It wasn't with the previous queue system. That's one way to do it. But the most important thing in my opinion is to ensure that there are even more health professionals in Swedish healthcare. Then we have a much better opportunity to make sure that the queues are short, because you should get care as quickly as possible.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-383	Madam President, I would like My question concerns the current proposal on taxonomy. It is basically a good theory to create common sustainability rules for investment in Europe, but at the same time the Commission's proposal is a disaster for Sweden. For example, hydropower and biofuels, which account for 80 per cent of the energy supply in Sweden, are not classified as sustainable. Forestry is also not classified as sustainable, even though it captures 42 million tonnes of CO2. My question is quite simple: will the government accept a taxonomy that classes hydropower and biopower as not sustainable?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-386	Madam President, I would like No, we believe that Swedish forests and Swedish hydropower are sustainable – and that our forestry is. That is why we are concerned about the proposal that is coming, and that is why we are acting. I myself have spoken to both the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, and the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, the Commission's first Vice-President, Frans Timmermans, and so on. We are several ministers who act, including Jennie Nilsson, who is responsible for forestry issues. We explain that our forestry has a long tradition of taking care of the forest. We must safeguard diversity, yes, but we must also be able to use the forest – not least in view of the forthcoming climate change. We also have a forest that actually grows in length year after year. In Holland, I have been told, there are twelve forests, and everyone has a name. Then there may be another need for forestry, but in Sweden we have forestry. We fight to make sure that the forest is considered sustainable.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-388	Madam President, I would like This week SJ announced that they are pulling their trains into Mälardalen prematurely. The money is over, and SJ has not received any compensation from the regions or government. If one compares the government's rescue efforts for aviation with those for the railways, the government's priority is clear. The flight has received Corona support in seven rounds, and the total amount of the aid is SEK 14.4 billion. The railway, on the other hand, has received SEK 930 million in corona support. So more than ten times more has been given to Corona in support of aviation than to the railways. Does the Prime Minister think it reasonable that the aviation sector has received ten times more aid than the rail sector? If the Prime Minister does not think so, does the Prime Minister intend to return with targeted support to the rail sector? We cannot, of course, be meant to have more trains withdrawn in the future.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-391	Madam President, I would like First of all, I do not think it is expected that the Prime Minister will give answers to state aid in one direction or another during Question Time. However, the question is very relevant. We have for a long time invested heavily in rail transport; the previous infrastructure bill was historically large, and so was rail – both building new rail and strengthening existing rail. The regions have also received substantial supplements during the pandemic. It is the regions that are responsible for public transport, and they are allowed to use this money. This applies not only to the general contribution but also to the public transport contribution. In this situation, the responsible minister will, of course, have to look at exactly what this means and come back to the matter. However, I do not have a concrete proposal for a solution here and now.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-393	Madam President, I would like The country's forest owners are seriously concerned. This concerns property rights, and something that has been added is Minister Bolund's statement that large parts of the privately owned forest should be nationalised. For example, for Jämtland it would be 284 000 hectares. After all, the House understands that this would break a large part of the countryside. This is the spine. What many now wonder is where the government stands. This would also put a great deal of restraint on the parts of the country that were affected, so now we have to sort this out. Where's the government? Will the Prime Minister give the Green Party's dangerous policy in this area a cold hand? That is the question I want answers to.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-395	Madam President, I would like The government is making decisions, and now there has been a report from an investigation showing how it would like to manage biodiversity. We must, of course, prepare that. We shall have forestry where we ensure both that there is biodiversity – it is of great importance to all of us – and that the forest can be used in the climate transition. We have a forestry with 350 000 forest owners, I think it is, who take a very big responsibility for their forest. That is why we agreed in the January agreement on how to deal with this. If forests are to be disposed of for a particular purpose, the owners must be properly compensated. It is not that Swedish forestry is threatened in any way, but we will of course also use the forest in the future. It is an important part of our climate change and an important part of our culture. If we've got the forest, which is such a fantastic natural resource, we're gonna use it, but we're gonna use it smartly.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-398	Madam President and the Prime Minister. Earlier this week SVT reported about Filip, who was forced to keep his sexuality secret, terrified of the family's actions. The family gathered to discuss Filip's fate. He was threatened to be sent abroad to be cured, but if he promised to keep his sexuality secret, the family would pardon him. Filip is far from alone. Today in Sweden, girls and boys are forced to visit priests and imams, or they are sent abroad to be cleansed or cured. Liberals have long fought against honour-related violence and oppression to defend the freedom of every human being. Much more needs to be done. A country that is so forward on other gender issues should also ban conversion therapy and education trips. Honour-related violence and oppression must no longer be accepted.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-401	Madam President, I would like We're on Filip's side. We will never accept oppression, no matter what its designation. As I have said before, I find it extremely difficult to link honour to this type of violence and oppression. People should be free. You're supposed to be able to love whoever you want, dress like you want and meet whoever you want without being oppressed. That is why we must ensure that, for example, we prevent the journeys abroad that are sometimes made in order for minors – children – to be married away or subjected to genital mutilation. We need to be much, much better in our schools to discover and clarify the problems we have in this area. That is a problem, and we will never accept it. The fact that this is discovered is therefore important, and the preventive information and discussion in schools about what is okay and what is not okay is important. Of course, we must also condemn those who subject others to oppression more quickly.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-404	Madam President, I would like My question is similar to the previous questioner. Unfortunately, violence linked to patriarchal structures is everywhere. Women are subjected to violence and oppression in all social classes and in all cultures. The honor-related violence is a special form of structural repression in which entire groups or families exercise strict control over young people's lives, life choices and sexuality. It is almost 20 years since Fadime 中 ahindal spoke here in Parliament about honour crimes and the oppression she was subjected to. Shortly thereafter, she was anointed by her own father. This violence and oppression restricts the lives of thousands of girls and women in Sweden, but it also limits boys and men. We are also very concerned that this violence is increasing during the pandemic, as society is more closed. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: what is the government doing to pay attention to violence and to combat honour-related violence and repression?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-407	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, the government already decided in 2016 on a ten-year strategy to combat men's violence against women, including so-called honour-related violence. We did so for the simple reason that we can never accept the oppression that so many are subjected to. Since September 2019 the police have flagged cases where so-called honor can be a part of crime, and recently it was reported that 1 400 such cases have been identified. It points to the magnitude of this oppression. On 1 July 2020, a special child marriage offence was introduced, a penalty for crimes of honour and also an exit ban, as I mentioned earlier. It shall protect children from being married or subjected to genital mutilation during a journey. Within the framework of the January Agreement, we have also agreed to introduce a special offence of honour.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-409	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the property tax. A functioning housing market is A and O in order to be able to get the first home, to buy your first apartment, to be able to build a house or to move to a smaller dwelling later in life when you need it. This week, Minister Ygeman has been out swinging to reintroduce the property tax and received support from the Prime Minister's party colleagues. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister intends to reintroduce the property tax, which has been tested in the past and is a poorly functioning instrument.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-412	Madam President, I would like The answer is no. In the framework of the January agreement, we have a discussion on a major tax reform, which is, in itself, more challenging than many could imagine. Let's see how far that discussion goes. But that's not part of it. Like the questioner, I think we need to have a real estate market that works. Obviously it doesn't now. One feature of such a property market is that we should make sure to build more. We need to have more access to housing. We are now doing so, including with the support that we are now developing. Then we need to review the entire taxation of real estate – including interest rates, interest rebates and all that. It's part of the whole package. However, there is no concrete proposal to introduce a property tax.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-414	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 2, although we naturally support all of them. As is well known, many municipalities and regions had a depressed economic situation even before the pandemic. This is something that we in the Swedish Democrats have been lifting for a long time. One in three municipalities had a budget deficit for 2019, one in five saw themselves forced to increase the municipal tax for 2020 and eight out of ten municipalities planned savings in the municipalities' major core business such as care for the elderly and school. During 2020, the municipal sector, due to the coronapandemia, received increased state subsidies by SEK 21 billion. However, the need is greater, and the municipalities which, even before the crisis, faced a weakened economic and demographic challenge, are now in danger of raising taxes or cutting down on core business if additional contributions are not received. For this reason, we want to provide additional funding to the municipality and region, in particular to provide the opportunity to employ and improve working conditions in public activities and to ensure that the State assumes its responsibility for the effects of the coronapandemin. These are direct costs incurred by municipalities such as protective equipment, medicines and iva sites, but also a long-term perspective in which municipalities will handle a health debt that will require considerable efforts. The impact of unemployment will also affect municipalities in the form of reduced tax revenues and increased financial assistance. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats proposed in the 2021 budget that the municipal equalisation system should be increased by a total of SEK 30 billion over three years, in order to give the municipal sector reasonable conditions to maintain good welfare and functioning public core activities in parallel with a reasonable tax burden without having to further increase the debt burden. This will also significantly improve the conditions for maintaining emergency preparedness for the future, which in many respects is precisely local responsibility. In the debate that the committee had at the end of last year on the municipal equalisation system, I chose to quote the Bureau of SKR, then SKL, from a debate article from 2019, because the article says most things that need to be said in this discussion: The future challenges of municipalities and regions are great. More than half of the regions and 110 municipalities already expect deficits in this year's results. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has pointed out that in 2026 municipalities and regions would need SEK 90 billion more than today if welfare were to develop in line with the increasing number of older people, children and young people. This is an assessment of Sweden's Municipalities and County Council (SKL) parts. ..................................................... Furthermore, they write, "Don't stomp over government costs at the municipalities." The principle of financing must be respected so that the level that decides on a reform will also pay for it. The state must now stop imposing new tasks on municipalities and regions, which are only partly financed by the state. ..................................................... This says most of the things about the management of the municipalities' situation, and we share the picture that is given. The Swedish Democrats have seen the need for a long time and have repeatedly pointed out the problems of the state moving the bill to the municipalities for things they have not ordered. Therefore, in addition to the additions to the municipal equalisation system, we chose to provide funding in the budget for 2021 in the form of, among other things, regionalisation of property tax, lower employers' contributions and the abolition of legal requirements for mother tongue education, which the combination would strengthen for municipalities and regions by over 60 billion over three years. Madam President, I would like Small companies' conditions are central to their welfare. More and more people choose to start their own business, and that is something that I believe should be encouraged and rewarded by the state, region and municipality. Since four out of five jobs are created by small and medium-sized enterprises, the conditions for starting and expanding activities are central to the municipalities. It is also better than unprofitable subsidised efforts, not only for growth but also for the accessibility of products and services, not least in rural areas. When political decisions have a negative impact on small business, it has a real impact on local government finances. Here I mean that the government fails consistently. Insecureness has become one of the most important issues for small businesses in recent years. The share of entrepreneurs who have been thinking about closing down due to insecurity and crime has increased from 13 to 19 per cent in a few years. This applies to both urban and rural areas. The reason why vandalism, threats, blackmail and, above all, theft have increased is easily linked to a failed migration and integration policy and a lack of customs powers. The figure of 19% of small businesses considering their closure due to increased insecurity should be high in the offices of the Government Office. The Government's work on strengthening the Customs Agency is now being criticised, as the proposal is not expected to affect theft goods that are taken out of the country, but largely only goods that come in. Why is it so hard to do right from the start? Foreign leagues who see Sweden as a sandwich table have long been a problem. It's strange to me. Regulatory simplification needs to be speeded up as slow, bureaucratic regulations often put obstacles in the way of entrepreneurs. Here we believe that the work needs to be intensified in order to facilitate and provide the opportunity for companies to invest and expand. One of our proposals in this work is to strengthen the Council's competence and mandate. The Council should be an independent body that is placed under the Prime Minister's Committee, as we believe it gives the Council greater influence with the possibility to influence as early as possible in the process of developing new rules. We also want to make greater use of sunset clauses to make a mandatory assessment, and in cases where the rules fail to meet the original criteria or purpose, they will be abolished. Last year, Parliament issued an announcement to the government in this area, and we now assume that the government will urgently come back with a proposal on this. Another issue for small businesses is public procurement where Sweden stands out in comparable countries. The fact that a procurement has few bidders is a major problem from a competitive point of view. It undermines trust in the public over time. According to the OECD, Sweden is one of the countries with the highest percentage of procurements with one or two tenderers per procurement. The fact that a few companies can submit tenders is a major problem for the Swedish business community, not least for small businesses that often run a local business. Opening up the possibility for small companies to participate in public procurement could be seen as beneficial for municipalities that have clear environmental objectives, for example. Here, municipalities need help in their work to engage in dialogue with the relevant sectors and to increase the opportunities for small businesses to tender for municipal procurements. What I have mentioned is a few of the many things that the Swedish Democrats see as important for strengthening the municipalities and, by extension, the regions and our country as a whole.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-434	Madam President, I would like After all, this report deals with municipal issues in general, and it spans a very wide range. I will focus my speech on three areas: targeted state subsidies, tax equalisation and a fairer census. I can start by saying that it looks very different around Sweden. Regional and local authorities have different priorities, and there are different majorities. It's actually very good – it creates diversity, which is very good. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying to us in the Center Party that it is out in municipalities and regions that you know best what decisions to make. We believe in the principle of proximity and decentralised governance. For a long time we have seen governments of different colours introducing an increasingly richer variety of targeted state subsidies. This is definitely a threat to local self-government, and it has very many negative effects: it makes it more difficult for smaller municipalities, it increases bureaucracy, it reduces efficiency, it makes local adaptation more difficult, and – perhaps the most important thing – it forces the wrong priorities. It adapts to the targeted state subsidies rather than the long-term needs. The Center Party has perhaps been the main advocate of targeted state subsidies, and now we have a system shift. In the budget proposal for 2020, the government states that a general state grant should be the starting point for the economic governance of the local government sector. I think that's a big change. However, we have a good piece to go before we are in goal. Statskontoret's latest report, which came in February 2020, indicates that there are still 165 targeted state grants. The number decreased by 28 in 2019, but there were 13 new ones. However, I think that we have, in any case, begun the phasing out of targeted state subsidies. We also see that very much of the contributions that will come in the future are general state grants that are distributed according to a distribution key without unnecessary administration. We also see that there is a special investigator working on this issue now, and we will be watching it closely. The result will be in September. Madam President, I would like Municipal issues are very much affected by the tax equalisation system. It's kind of a basic condition for having a level playing field throughout the country, and it's actually no wonder– there are such systems in all developed countries in the world, although sometimes one can't believe it in the debate. As the Center Party sees it, this system is absolutely crucial to maintaining equivalence across the country. However, we see some serious shortcomings in the current system. In fact, much of the tax equalisation today goes to growth municipalities which are basically well placed for a strong economy. We need to do something about that. The Center Party took an initiative and got a united committee with it to review the entire tax equalisation system. We think that is very good – even if you should not tell yourself that it is easy to do. We all know how difficult it is, and we all know that we have quite different starting points in that review. We in the Center Party want to indicate that we assume that there will be a guaranteed level of service throughout the country. At the same time, of course, we need to find designs that benefit and create incentives for entrepreneurship, jobs and growth. In fact, it should pay for municipalities to make reforms that strengthen the economy. That is not always the case today. It is also clear to us that the country's sparsely populated municipalities, which are quite many, have structural conditions that make them more difficult to meet future needs for municipal services. That is why we want to see greater consideration given to sparseness within the framework of the system of equalisation to be created. We can see that coming. The last thing I think is worth highlighting is fair census. It is in practice about the municipalities with a large tourism industry – in Jämtland and Dalarna in the north mainly a winter visiting industry and south-west, in Bohuslän and on Gotland, a summer visiting industry. These municipalities suffer a great deal of strain because they have a large extra population and therefore increased costs. At the moment we have a system which actually stems from the old state era, when the census was made on 1 November. It's kind of out of date today. To take Gotland as an example: We have 60 000 inhabitants. We have 6,000 free-time residences. During the pandemic, we have seen that the permanent population has increased by approximately 6 000. This means that we get an increased load on hospitals and home care with increased staffing costs and other things that we do not get full coverage for. At the same time, we get no share of the tax revenue. It is not timely to have a system based on the census on a date. We hope and believe that a solution will be found to this in future reviews of the tax equalisation system. It is reasonable to find a system of monthly or quarterly censuses that allows for double accounting locations. With that, Madam President, I support reservation number 1.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-451	Madam President, I would like I am a feminist– I believe in equal opportunities and obligations for men and women. I also believe that we can have a labour market where men's and women's jobs are equally valued and where a girl who wants to work as a construction worker is not hindered, which we could read about in the media as late as last week. Precisely because I believe that women and men should have the same rights, I find it strange that proposals for public welfare to be privatised as part of increasing women's entrepreneurship and for a stop to profit-hunting hinder women's entrepreneurship. Women's entrepreneurship cannot be limited to welfare, and welfare cannot be seen as a natural area of female entrepreneurship. Efforts are needed in many different areas, not least to get financiers and lenders to understand that women are as good entrepreneurs as men. Today's industry's review of venture capital investments in 2019 shows, for example, that approximately 1% went to companies with women as founders. That is where the obstacle to women's entrepreneurship lies, not in profit limits in welfare. It is also stated that women make up a large proportion of entrepreneurs in the welfare area and that a stop to the pursuit of profits would hit women hard. But looking at size and turnover, you can see that it is companies with men at the top who have the biggest profits and the biggest profit distributions. Sweden's largest school company, Academedia AB, is almost as large as all other independent schools together and is listed on the stock exchange. The company is run by men, just like the largest private owner. Together, the ten largest health care companies account for 35 per cent of the total turnover of private health care and long-term care. Within the largest health care company Attendo the larger private owners are men. With few exceptions, it is men at the top of the largest profit-making companies in welfare. The pursuit of profits as an incentive in public activities must be stopped, while at the same time making demands on the private actors involved in welfare. By regulating the benefits of welfare, conditions can be created to ensure quality and long-term sustainability. A surplus will remain in the business and will mainly be reinvested. Unfortunately, well-being has become a quasi-market, which in itself is cost-driven because it is someone else who pays, that is, the taxpayer. Tax money should go to what it is intended for, and so profits in welfare should be regulated. Insureing citizens that tax money goes to welfare and that it is mainly reinvested is crucial in order to get away from the problems brought about by the pursuit of profit, such as the exclusion of children, the issuing of certificates of joy and the negative impact on the level of education, working conditions and staffing. The transfer of our joint ownership to private actors does not benefit local residents, equality, equality or welfare. Since the introduction of the possibility for municipalities and regions to more or less donate businesses, the interest in a purchase of welfare activities has ceased. It is clear that profit is the driving force behind the privatisation of welfare activities. The problem of finding the right replacement models shows why welfare should not be a market but a right for people. Today's compensation models favour private welfare companies and often disadvantage public welfare. In healthcare, we see how private welfare companies were in systems to establish themselves where they expect the most profitable to live and become customers. Within the school we see how independent schools choose locations and structures that attract students with good conditions. At the same time, the public-run school stands with the full cost of overcrowding in order to be able to receive newly moved pupils and pupils leaving independent schools and to be able to parry when school groups go bankrupt or just close down. Freestanding schools should be compensated today if local authorities lose out or need to invest in pupils who need extra support. This is a system error that contributes to the impoverishment of the municipal school and the private can pick out profits. Last parliamentary term we had a social democrat who wanted to stop the profits and went to elections to stop the pursuit of profits in health care, education and care. However, the same party is now saying in the report that the government intends to pursue a policy that will not put forward proposals that impose profit restrictions on private operators. So Sweden continues to have unlimited profit withdrawals in welfare – unlimited tax receipts that were intended for pupils, sick people, children and the elderly. It is true that the Left Party shares the committee's view that the motions for even more generous conditions for companies in the welfare sector should be rejected. But we believe that they should be rejected on the grounds that the prize hunt must be stopped. I support all three of our motivational reservations, but I would like to make a special request for reservation 4. Madam President, I would like Some time ago, a unanimous parliament decided to investigate the municipal equalization systems. There have been too many differences in welfare and, above all, many sparsely populated municipalities have a high tax rate without better service or welfare for their inhabitants than those in low-tax municipalities. The conditions for doing well-being differ widely between municipalities, and the conditions must be levelled out so that the whole of Sweden can live. Pending a new system of equalisation, the Left Party of the Budget has proposed that small rural municipalities should receive 1.9 billion this year. For many years welfare has been underfunded. This made the care and care poorly equipped to meet the coronapandemia, which started a year ago. Part-time, hourly and understaffed schedules were some reasons why the infection got into our retirement homes and home care. In the 2010 budget, we proposed 12 billion for the rehabilitation of care for the elderly, care and school, which is needed to safeguard well-being. We did not get this through, but together with other opposition parties we recently pushed through that elderly care will receive a supplement of SEK 4.35 billion this year. It is time to give the staff in care for the elderly the opportunity to do a good job. They need to grow more so that they have time to provide good care. And the precarious hourly jobs must be replaced by permanent jobs so that the security of both the employees and the elderly is increased. Our municipalities and regions need more resources, not more tax cuts.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-469	Madam President, I would like During the covid-19 pandemic, the breaks in welfare have become apparent, not least in the care of the elderly. For too long, elderly care and the working conditions of those who work there have had to stand back in many municipalities. A functioning well-being is at the heart of the strong society. It's about getting care when we need it, being safe that the care works in the autumn of life and that our children get a safe schooling. Since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, we have therefore prioritised and invested in welfare. During the good years, we saved up for worse times while investing 35 billion in welfare. This enabled us to enter this crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977 and with 100,000 more employees in welfare. Thanks to the strong public finances we were able to present a historic budget with investments of SEK 105 billion to build Sweden stronger. Municipalities and regions receive increased general state subsidies by 10 billion, in addition to the 12.5 billion already announced, and a further 4 billion are invested permanently in elderly care. However, in order to improve quality, the conditions of employment must also be improved. Increased quality goes hand in hand with secure employment conditions. That is why we also introduced an older care lift to promote more permanent employment and higher skills for the staff. This shows that there is a difference between who is in charge of a crisis. During the financial crisis, the moderate-led government did not compensate the municipalities for their tax losses. The unemployment fund weakened, and the membership rate was at record low levels when the crisis struck. We'll do different. We have strengthened the unemployment fund, and we are compensating for the municipalities' tax losses three times over. But the question is whether the Moderates have learned from history. In moderate-led municipalities, we now see that one in three cuts or privatises elderly care, in the midst of a pandemic. It doesn't make sense! Money allocated to care for the elderly should go to care for the elderly. Madam President, I would like That is precisely what we are going to talk about here in the debate today: how are we going to meet the challenges of providing people with good care for the elderly, high-quality school and care and with better working conditions? How can we, from a national point of view, provide the conditions for municipalities and regions to fulfil their mission through state subsidies, legislation and other governance? Municipalities and regions are the basis for the decentralised welfare model that Sweden has. Local self-government gives them great freedom to design and manage their activities according to local needs. Even before the pandemic, we saw that the challenges in the municipalities and regions were large and varied. The situation is generally more difficult among the smallest municipalities in terms of population. Many are those who work in welfare who feel that they are not enough and do not have time for the care they want to give. We have prioritised that the whole of Sweden should live and grow. It is about creating a level playing field for all municipalities and regions. All municipalities, from north to south, should be able to have a good welfare. Just over a year ago, the Riksdag decided on a new cost adjustment, and now more attention is being paid to the social development that has taken place in recent years, with an increasing number of older people in the population and an increase in urbanisation. Overall, the levelling-up is strengthened, taking more account of sparsely populated areas and socio-economic factors. Sweden does not benefit from us drifting apart. The redistribution is a step towards ensuring equal welfare throughout our elongated country. It's a question of justice. In carrying out the agreed review of the equalisation system, we need to give priority to more equal conditions throughout the country: from each one according to his ability, to each one as needed. This is the foundation of the Swedish welfare model. Equality in welfare is extremely important. No matter who you are or where you live, you will receive a good health care, a good education and a good care. Madam President, I would like I have a memory picture: I sit as a new municipal politician in a quavy councilroom in Linköping. Invited guests are an organisation called SKL, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. They talk about the big challenge that all municipalities face at some point in the early 2020s. The reason is the positive development of the welfare society – that so many are getting older and living longer – precisely because our society has made it possible. For me as a young person it felt very far away, but I remember thinking how tough it would be for everyone who would then be politicians, and above all it would be tough for society if politicians would not manage to solve the challenge. Now we're there. Then it is only good to put welfare first – to give priority in every budget to investments in school, health care and long-term care. More and more people live longer, and more and more children are born. That's a good thing. This is the result of a long-term welfare policy. But the conditions for meeting this challenge differ greatly between municipalities and regions. To meet this positive but also challenging development, tens of thousands of new employees will need to be employed in health care, care for the elderly and the school. The focus must be on skills provision. When we invest in welfare, there must also be people to hire. Everyone who works in welfare – nurses, personal assistants, child care workers and teachers – needs to become more and have a good working environment where they enjoy and can devote themselves to the right things. Today, 100 000 more people are working in welfare than when the Red Green Government took over in 2014, but even more must be done. We know that the challenges of welfare are great now, but above all in the coming years. Therefore, we must not be fooled into making short-term decisions that may perhaps look good at the moment but which do not help municipalities and regions to deal with the challenges in the long term. Building prosperity strong is like running a marathon, and I know it requires long-termness and perseverance. Madam President, I would like The market is not a recipe for solving the challenges of welfare. Privatisation and deregulation have proven to cost money, increase health inequalities and increase segregation in schools. We Social Democrats want to tackle the degenerative aspects of welfare that are now increasingly evident. It is no secret that we have for a long time been proposing restrictions on profits in the areas financed by us jointly through the tax bill. But we have to be realists. The Swedish Parliament does not have a majority in favour of a profit limit, and this is where the decision on profit limitation must be made. Therefore, we have also agreed that controls and focus on quality in welfare can be one way. Risk of detection is an important instrument. We have a responsibility for the quality of the public service, regardless of who will carry it out. The state, regions and municipalities must together take responsibility for managing needs, quality and the expansion of the places required – not the market. It is the need for care for the sick and the young people's need for a good school that will govern. Madam President, I would like When the pandemic is over, we should not go back to the situation we had before. We will build society stronger, and we will do so by working Sweden out of the crisis. We do this through public investment in jobs and climate change and, of course, by investing in welfare, by securing better employment conditions, by creating more equal conditions for the entire local government sector and by putting welfare first. Finally, I would like to call for the motion to be rejected and for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-490	Madam President, I would like Each year the public sector procures goods and services for over SEK 700 billion. This corresponds to one sixth of Sweden's GDP. More than 18 000 public procurements are announced each year. Against this background, I believe that public procurement should have a much greater place in the Swedish debate. The way procurements are designed and implemented has a major impact on private business, as a large part of their revenue comes from business with municipalities, regions and states. Rightly, tax money is used well while the public contributes to a thriving private business. This also creates jobs and growth in other parts of the economy. Good public procurement creates mutual benefit while companies can step into global competition with functioning business models for goods and services. The public should receive as much as possible for tax money, with good quality. We will fight corruption and negligence. The Swedish Parliament has a great responsibility for ensuring that citizens' money comes to the greatest possible benefit. We Moderates want to commission the Procurement Authority to disseminate knowledge about the possibility of including life cycle analysis as a factor in public procurement. If we make better demands in public procurement, public consumption can also make a real contribution to climate change. Ultimately, climate-smart consumption is based on actual emissions throughout the chain. Sweden ranks as one of the world's most innovative and competitive economies. For a small trade-dependent country with long distances on the edge of Europe, a good business and innovation climate remains crucial. It is through trade that we have become one of the richest countries in the world, and it is through continued trade with others that we can continue to be one of the richest countries in the world. We Moderates want more innovation and functional procurement in public services to continue to support the development that has made Sweden a rich country. Open procurement documents that demand function create creativity. By describing the function a product or service should have, you can get companies to think new. In this way, a good innovation climate can be created throughout the private sector. If we get better at purchasing function, taxpayers can get a lot more for their money. We can also obtain exports of this type of goods and services. It creates jobs and further prosperity in our country. Public procurement is a large part of the Swedish economy. How we design procurement documents affects Swedish companies to a large extent. One area that needs to be significantly improved is the procurement of food in the public sector. Swedish farmers are subject to the EU's toughest environmental requirements and toughest animal protection. This is basically good but makes Swedish food more expensive to produce. It is a result of decisions that we have taken here in the Swedish Parliament. The problem is that the same politicians who have made decisions about the tougher environmental requirements and the tougher animal protection then opt out of Swedish food because it has become far too expensive to produce. Instead, municipalities, regions and states buy food produced in other countries with lower environmental standards and lower animal welfare standards. This is completely unreasonable. We should protect Swedish food production and the demands we place on Swedish farmers. The public sector should not be allowed to procure food produced with lower requirements than the Swedish legislation allows. Madam President, I would like In the light of these considerations, I request the approval of reservation 1.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-499	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, and I call for the approval of reservation 8. Public procurement has a huge annual turnover. In 2018, the amount was SEK 782 billion, which was good 18 per cent of Sweden's bnp. There are many aspects that need to be raised in public procurement, but I will just like last year raise animal husbandry and the fact that we in Sweden encourage slaughter without stunning, while in Sweden it has been forbidden with this type of animal cruelty since 1937– 1937! And here I am. 3 million meals are served in the public sector every day. There will be large amounts of food from animals every year. Every year, several members from several parties exercise that imports of meat from animals slaughtered without stunning must be stopped. It is shameful that, year after year, we need to repeat this appeal to stop Sweden's contribution to upholding this hideous way of treating other beings. It is shameful that Swedish tax funds are used to promote slaughter without stunning. This is actually what happens when, year after year, we ignore a legislative change that stops the import of meat from animals slaughtered without stunning. The government's response to the motions on these terrible abuses is that it is already possible to choose in procurement to require animals to be slaughtered in accordance with Swedish laws. Here purchasers answer that it is very complicated and uncertain how to do the right thing in order not to break rules. Often it is about the procurement of complex foods and several steps. The government's answer last year was that there's an investigation going on. Of course, I was already hoping that we would see a stop in 2020, but unfortunately we seem to be stomping in the same place as a year ago. I hope that the answer today will be different, namely that in the very near future we will see a proposal for a ban. A Swedish veterinarian with great insight into undecided slaughter summarizes the approach in the following way: and In all other contexts, as a veterinarian, I would immediately be removed from my licence if I did something similar. ..................................................... A majority of the meat we import comes from animals slaughtered without stunning. It is true that slaughter without stunning is prohibited in the EU, but the exception is if slaughter is for religious reasons. As a result, we have an enormous overproduction of this type of slaughter in terms of the number of religious people who demand this animal cruelty in order for the meat to be considered edible. Every year several hundred million animals are slaughtered without stunning, and that is only in the EU. For those who do not know how this slaughter is done, I can briefly explain how the slaughter of beef is done. You put the animal in a big barrel. Then the animal is fixed so that it cannot move. You also fix your head. Then the barrel is rotated 180 degrees so that the animal lies upside down and its neck is exposed. The stress charge is huge for the animal when it is upside down while it is completely fixed. Then the killing itself takes place by the butcher sawing up his neck. The amount of blood that sprays is indescribable. There's blood everywhere, and the animal's still conscious. If you watch movies of this type of slaughter, you can clearly see how the animals try to scream with fear and pain. Other films show how some animals manage to stand up when they are knocked out of the barrel. They stagger forward with huge openings in their throats. You can see how they try to breathe through slit throats. Madam President, I would like It would surely have been easier to ban imports if meat from unneeded animals were not a requirement in Judaism and Islam. But it cannot be our job to protect those who practice or demand animal cruelty, even if it is done because of a religion. Can we practice Christianity in Sweden? I think most people answer yes to that question. But if you read the Old and New Testament you will find many rules that are not allowed to exercise in Sweden. The list is long. For example, the Bible's view of the position of women is usually not compatible with Swedish law. The Bible's view of homosexuality is something that we in Sweden have thankfully left behind. In Sweden, it is obvious that Swedish law applies to the decrees of the Bible. I don't think many Swedes think that to be a good Christian, you have to follow the texts of the Bible literally. Religion, too, needs to be updated and up-to-date according to how societies develop and the progress we make. A religion should never be allowed to be a cover for oppression, violence, or animal cruelty. Madam President, I would like Is unjudged slaughter humane? Most people say no. You do not need to be a veterinarian or a scientist to understand this, especially if you are able to watch the videos available on Youtube. The animals are concerned with distress, pain and suffering – indescribable suffering. Sawing movements are permitted with the knife in connection with the slaughter. How many moves you use with the knife affects the sensation of pain for the animal. One study showed 1 - 60 moves per animal, fewer for small animals and more for larger animals like cattle. The animals do not lose consciousness directly. Several studies show that time varies. Skillful and precise and with a very well-cut knife it takes from 5 seconds to a minute and a half. Unfortunately, there are several studies that show much longer than that. The veterinary profession, brain physiologists and animal organizations agree that large animals that are slaughtered without first being stunned are subjected to great suffering and distress. Let us put an end once and for all to the use of Swedish tax funds to promote this outdated cruelty to animals. We can do better in 2021. Let us stop something that has been banned in Sweden since 1937. More and more EU countries have opened their eyes and we see a more sustainable approach to slaughter. On 17 December last year, the European Court of Justice welcomed the fact that, according to the EU, it is entirely legal for the Member States to ban the slaughter of animals without stunning. It shows that more people have had enough of this cruel cruelty to animals. Hopefully, this will also lead the government to present a sharp proposal in the near future that, in public procurement, we ban the import of meat from animals slaughtered without stunning. I look forward to the fact that no Members need to exercise this again this autumn and that we are really taking a step towards more sustainable animal husbandry that also lives up to our long-existing Swedish laws. Madam President, I would like During the time that I have been standing here in the pulpit, several thousand animals in the EU have had their throats cut without stunning, and this is due, among other things, to the Swedish public procurement and to our tax money.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-521	Madam President, I would like Public procurement may not be today's kiosk roller. But the fact is that it is a very important issue that affects the everyday life of many people in Sweden. School materials that children use are usually procured e. Food at retirement homes is usually procured. And who runs the bus service is usually procured. We charge taxes from companies and workers to finance welfare. Then, of course, it is necessary to use the money as efficiently as possible. One way to succeed is of course to carry out procurements. That is why it is also a big issue. The scope of public procurement in Sweden is almost 800 billion SEK a year. Thus, it is almost 20 percent of our gross domestic product of SEK 4,883 billion. So it is a big question. In fact, I, who have worked with procurement as a municipal councillor, are very humble about this. I know how difficult it is for all officials working on these issues in municipalities and regions on a daily basis. We have many difficult rules. We have complicated as much as we can, both in this House and in the European Union. And we're making quite a few big changes. It is particularly difficult for the smaller municipalities to cope with this. The municipal council also sees disadvantages in the procurement system, although much is good. It is actually quite expensive to produce procurement documents. The processes are very complicated. They very often lead to appeals, for example in construction projects, which lead to delays and actually costs. Sometimes it immediately slows down development. In some cases it is also very difficult to make political choices if you put efficiency into favouring local development. So it's hard. In some other cases, it creates political struggle that may not be a good thing, namely whether to have a public or private performer. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, there are some basic principles of procurement. All public procurement must be characterised by equal and fair conditions. It's a base. It must apply to all companies of any size. But it must also be transparency and transparency as a fundamental principle for combating corruption. Simplification of rules is a fundamental prerequisite for a properly functioning procurement framework. So we want the procurements below the EU thresholds – with direct procurement – to be reviewed. At the same time, we think it is high time to review and evaluate the procurement legislation that came about a few years ago. Madam President, I would like There are, as you know, different approaches to procurement and how they take place in municipalities and regions. There are some who see procurement as a way to focus entirely on improving efficiency and making the best use of tax revenue. There are others who see the Act on Public Procurement and Procurement as a way to change society and influence social development. There is a third group that wants a broader public performance by creating diversity among performers and organisations and thus also a diversity of employers. I can say that the Center Party likes all these three views. On the other hand, there needs to be a balance between viewpoints; one must not stare blindly at any of them. Madam President, I would like Public procurement can, properly used, be a very powerful tool to achieve, for example, lower climate emissions and less toxins in our everyday lives. We can move towards circular systems in the economy. But there are also clear potentials for improvement. The most obvious has already been mentioned in the debate, namely food procurement. I think it is a bit shameful that we still have a double standard today and do not make the same demands on public procurement as we do on Swedish agricultural production. So we do not comply with the tough environmental and animal welfare legislation when we procure. That is not a reasonable principle, and we really need to change this. If we are to get there that we make the same demands on procurement as we do on food production, it would be an important part of the food strategy. I think one can make a comparison and say that during the pandemic Swedish meat has benefited quite a lot thanks to the consumer shopping directly, and not the restaurant. This shows precisely that the consumer has the power, and that a clear label that allows one to choose makes the Swedish-produced one better. If we were to have a public procurement with only Swedish food, it would be a powerful instrument for implementing the food strategy and increasing production in this country. It would be good for everything, and I think it is one of the strongest instruments we can use. We really need to get this in place. Another improvement we see is that there are measures to comply with the Paris Agreement and to achieve a net zero emission by 2045, which is not in place. The directive on European legislation came back in 2012, and that is what we are now creating the law about. We want to introduce a minimum floor for environmental and climate action that corresponds to the basic level of the Procurement Authority's requirements and that it should be included in all government procurement. Madam President, I would like With this, I am in favour of the Center Party in favour of reservation 9.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-535	Madam President, I would like First of all, perhaps we should note in this speaker's chair, given the previous speeches here, that the slaughter of animals without stunning is not permitted in Sweden. I would also like to begin by stating that we are debating the law on public procurement. It is a piece of legislation that has improved during the last parliamentary term but which could have been so much better if the bourgeois parties had not, together with the Swedish Democrats, rejected demands for decent working conditions below the thresholds. When the Swedish Democrats and the other right-wing parties come together, this often happens at the expense of workers' working conditions and conditions. That is what their common interests look like on this issue. There is a study that IVL, the Swedish Environmental Institute, has done. They have looked at the obstacles and opportunities to create a good and safe working environment for entrepreneurs. This is a study that shows that common causes of accidents are lack of knowledge about the working environment. It is also about the risks that exist in the workplace. This can be anything from the fact that the work culture differs between the client and the entrepreneur, to the fact that the division of responsibilities can be unclear. This may involve a lack of communication as it will often cross several stages before the person concerned, i.e. the person who will eventually carry out the tasks, is reached by the information. The responsibility for the right knowledge lies with the employer who controls the work, which is often the entrepreneurs. There is, of course, a great variety, and the prerequisites are different in terms of knowledge. Larger entrepreneurs often have better knowledge of the work environment and also the resources to apply it. In smaller companies, managers often do not have such good occupational health and safety knowledge, where work environment work can suffer. Then it is common that the necessary routines are lacking. Risks are not detected and prevented, says the study. In order to prevent occupational injuries, it is important to make demands on the contractor's work environment in connection with the actual procurement process. Monitoring and monitoring are, of course, also important in order to ensure that the rules and procedures that have actually been laid down in the workplace are effectively complied with. Long contracts with few entrepreneurs increase the opportunities to develop good common practices for work environment and safety, says the study. It is also stated, as we have exercised, that the entrepreneurial chains should be restricted, that is to say that the entrepreneur should hire subcontractors who, in turn, hire sub-contractors. It's causing a lot of trouble. We have seen time and again that it leads to workplace accidents and to people actually dying at work. If you are serious about a zero vision of workplace accidents, you should also have a requirement to limit the number of subcontractors in these chains. So that is what we have been exercising on, and I therefore call for reservation 15 to be approved. We have also exercised that it is possible to impose requirements in the Public Procurement Act for companies registered in tax havens to be excluded from the procurement, partly because it is tax that pays the procured business and partly because it represents unfair competition. Unfortunately, the interest from other parties is not very great either to limit the number of subcontractors in these chains or to look at how to exclude companies registered in tax havens. Before I finish, I would just like to say that the study states this: the more people involved, the greater the risk that safety is lacking.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-547	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the FiU34 report of the Committee on Finance, a motion for a resolution on public procurement. As several speakers before me have said, the large sums that Sweden spends on public procurement – about SEK 800 billion annually. If you use this money right, they can do great community benefit. In addition to contributing to the efficient use of public resources, public procurement can be used as a tool to achieve social policy objectives such as promoting human health, the right conditions in the labour market, good animal care, a better environment and innovation. For us social democrats, it is important that there is a governance and an organisation of purchasing work that helps to get as much benefit from this money as possible. During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led government took many important steps in public procurement. It set up the Procurement Authority and decided on a national procurement strategy. Approximately nine months ago, on 1 July 2020, the new Act on Procurement Statistics came into force. The contracting authority has been given the mandate and this means that they have the main responsibility for collecting national statistics in the field of procurement. They shall operate a public national database to be made available to the public and to all those involved in procurement issues. Thanks to the new legislation, the introduction of the Procurement Authority and their efforts to inform and provide support and guidance as well as the work on the procurement strategy, more authorities and other contracting activities have gained increased knowledge of both procurement and how to procure more strategically. The Government has also recently commissioned the Procurement Authority to develop a tool to monitor the development of appropriate purchasing organisations and to organise and implement targeted actions for the management of contracting authorities and entities. The contracting authority shall monitor and evaluate the tool and impact of the actions carried out and submit proposals for a multi-annual plan for how further work can support the establishment of appropriate purchasing organisations. The purpose of the efforts is to disseminate knowledge, to provide insights into the possibilities of a strategic approach and an appropriate purchasing organisation and to clarify the benefits of such an approach. The assignment will be reported to the Government in February 2022. Interest in social sustainability and in using procurement as a tool to achieve societal goals has steadily increased. It can also be seen that even small authorities with relatively limited procurement can make a big difference and lead by example. In December 2019, a report was presented on the concept of well-being. The investigation has been out for a referral, and the responsible minister has stated that society needs to be much better at taking advantage of the power of the idea-based sector. The Government has announced a bill to the Riksdag on idea-based actors in welfare during 2021. The procurement authority has also been tasked with having a special focus on support in 2021 to facilitate participation in public procurement, for example by idea-based organisations. Madam President, I would like Annually, large quantities of food are purchased for public purposes. This means that municipalities, regions and government authorities have a great responsibility to impose requirements on animal welfare and food production. On the Swedish Procurement Authority's website there are a variety of suggestions for sustainability criteria that can be used in the design of a procurement when purchasing with a focus on environmental and social sustainability. Among other things, there is an area that deals with food and meal services. In the procurement legislation, it is possible for public procurement to set animal welfare requirements in line with Swedish legislation. One of them is a sustainability criterion for the method of slaughter that ensures that procured meat products must come from animals that have been completely stunned when bleeding has taken place and completely unconscious until death occurs, regardless of the method of stunning. Criteria for complete stunning during bleeding in accordance with current rules in Sweden and the EU are available for all species. Another example, Madam President, is the responsible use of antibiotics. We Social Democrats want it to be mandatory for all procurements of animal foodstuffs to require that production has taken place with high standards of animal welfare and that requirements should be made for the low use of antibiotics. This is good for us consumers but also for Swedish agriculture and for food production. The high demands on the environment and health that we have in Sweden and that the Swedish farmers live up to should not be a competitive disadvantage to those foreign producers who do not reach the same level. Another criterion is the right to make demands in the field of labour law. During the previous parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led government submitted a proposal to Parliament to be able to demand collective agreements in public procurement. Unfortunately, as Ulla Andersson said earlier, there was no majority in this House for this proposal. About this time last year, there was a vote on the proposal to extend access rights to regional safety representatives. The proposals were to give them the right to visit workplaces that do not have union members. This, too, was voted down by a bourgeois majority in this House. I find that regrettable. However, procurement may require labour law conditions based on collective agreements, which are in accordance with the ILO core conventions and sustainable supply chains. These include the labour law in force in the country where the work is carried out, including provisions on pay, working time, leave and work environment, and ensuring that the conditions are met by the contractors engaged. For us social democrats, order and order on the Swedish labour market are self-evident. This is also why, during the last term of office, the government has taken a number of measures to combat labour crime. Eight authorities, including the police and the Swedish Tax Agency, have been given a government mandate to work together with controls against unhealthy competition. Lex Laval has been torn up. New rules on posting have been in force since 30 July 2020. This means equal pay for equal work for everyone who works in Sweden. Work environment policy has been strengthened by more than 100 million annually. More than 150 new inspectors have been hired and the number of inspections has increased sharply. Regional safety ombudsmen's activities, joint training efforts, increased resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency, increased workplace controls and entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims are important measures for people to feel safe in their workplaces. The procurement process is an important instrument for achieving social policy objectives, and the Government has announced further proposals in this area. Three proposals have been announced in 2021. They are about a simplified procurement framework, idea-based actors in welfare and a more effective review of public procurement. We will continue the debate on public procurement in this House in the future. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-568	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Transport Committee's report on Road safety. This is a report with 165 requests for exercise relating to road safety, timing, road design, speed limits, alcohol locks in vehicles, reduced urban base speed, driver training, mopeds, A-tractors and traffic medicine assessments, to mention a few themes from this report. What Sweden is perhaps best known for in terms of the road safety work we carry out is the so-called zero vision, which Parliament decided on autumn 1997. The purpose of the zero vision is that no one should be killed or seriously injured as a result of road traffic accidents in Sweden. We can see that we have not achieved the goal of zero vision, but at least it is progressing. Fewer and fewer people are killed in road traffic in Sweden. Last year, 2020, 190 people died in road traffic accidents in Sweden. There were 31 persons fewer than in the previous year, when 221 persons were killed in road traffic. Last year's figure was the lowest since official statistics in this area were started in the early 1930s, so it was positive. Of course, much more needs to be done. One area that is crucial to road safety is speed, simply how fast we drive on our roads. We know that a collision at 90 kilometres per hour compared to 80 kilometres per hour increases the risk of dying by 40 percent. We also know that driving too fast in areas where many people live, in our cities and in urban areas, increases the risk of accidents and deaths. I'm going to talk a little bit about what's called base speed in densely populated areas. We in the Left Party have a reservation on this, reservation 9, to which I hereby request approval. Today we have a general base speed of 50 kilometres per hour in densely populated areas, which is regulated by the Traffic Regulation. While municipalities can take their own initiative and sign up for certain streets, 50 kilometres per hour still sets a level for what applies in our cities. The Left Party believes that it would be very positive to have a general reduction in this base speed, at least down to 40 kilometres per hour instead of 50 kilometres per hour. This would increase the safety of our cities and could also contribute to reducing emissions and improving the urban environment. Madam President, I would like Reduced base speed in densely populated areas has been investigated several times. Most recently by Trafikanalys, which presented its report in 2017. Traffic analysis states in its report that if the speed of the boat is reduced to 40 kilometres per hour, somewhere between 3 and 17 fewer deaths would occur and many more would not be injured in traffic. Similar conclusions have been reached within the framework of its work together with 13 other authorities with an action plan for increased road safety. They, too, suggested lowering the speed of the bath to 40 kilometers per hour. The lower base rate in cities was also the conclusion reached by the so-called Stockholm Conference on Road Safety a little over a year ago, in February 2020. Lowering the base rate in cities is not just about road safety and avoiding deaths and accidents. It is about much more, for example the possibility of building sustainable, pleasant and environmentally friendly cities. With reduced base speed, it will be easier to use walking and cycling to get around our cities. With reduced base speed, more people would likely choose to walk and ride as they would experience the street environment as safer and safer if the cars were to stay at lower speeds. Madam President, I would like I note that very interesting things are happening around Europe in the field of basic speed. I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to do a review on my behalf. The report is called Lower Base Speed in urban areas, and I will publish it later this evening on my website jensholm.se. Then anyone who wants to take part of it can. RUT notes that several cities in Europe have slowed down their speed. In Paris, for example, it has been lowered to 30 kilometres per hour – plus massive efforts have been made to convert spaces that were previously dedicated to cars to pedestrian and cycle paths. In Brussels, a general speed of 30 kilometres per hour was decided in January of this year, except on certain main roads. Similar reductions in ba speed have been made in Milan and Bilbao and in Grenoble, Lille and Nantes in France, to name a few. In Spain, an interesting process is under way that aims to slow down the speed of all the cities in the country. I believe that there is a political responsibility to demand here. It is not just hoping that our municipalities will slow down the pace of the general economy. After all, we all seem to agree that it is positive for both safety and environment at a reduced base speed. Why not follow the Stockholm Declaration on road safety from last year and the studies that propose a general reduced base speed down to 40 kilometres per hour as standard in our cities instead of 50 kilometres per hour? At least that is what we in the Left Party are proposing in our reservation, so I ask again for the approval of reservation number 9. Madam President, I would like Alcohol is a major obstacle to safer traffic on our roads. Around 25% of all road traffic deaths are linked to alcohol intake. Approximately 15 000 trips per day are made with people who are under the influence of alcohol. It is not okay to expose yourself and especially other road users to the high risk of driving under the influence of alcohol. Fortunately, technology has moved forward. I'm thinking of alcolocks as standard in our cars. The alcohol locks are now cheaper to manufacture and easier to put in the cars. The Left Party, together with the Christian Democrats, therefore believes that at least an investigation should be made into the possibility of having alcohol locks as standard on all new cars in Sweden. Anyone who wants to vote for that reservation should vote for reservation number 14. Madam President, I would like There are many other interesting and important things in this report. I do not have time to go into that, but other Members will certainly touch on these issues. I hope I get a chance to debate it a little bit then.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-589	Madam President, I would like Road safety is an area that engages. As Jens Holm said, many members write motions during the general exercise period, and everywhere people engage widely to increase road safety in Sweden. It is also an area that unites. Everyone in this House agrees on the importance of increasing road safety in Sweden. It is a consensus that has led to very good results, including the well-known and ambitious zero vision. It is a unity that benefits Sweden. Road accidents affect many more than those affected and often have consequences for entire communities. It is therefore important that we respect the responsibility that comes with this kind of debate. I support all the Moderate reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 8 on adapted speed limits. In Sweden, we have long prioritised road safety, which has made us one of the most road safety countries in the world. However, this has not always been the case. Before the three-point belt was invented, we saw a rapidly increasing number of road deaths and serious injuries as a result of more people being able to afford a car and increasing the distance between work and housing. Many actors were involved in the development of the seatbelt, which has probably saved millions of people worldwide. Today, cars are equipped with lots of new technology, but no single technology can be considered as revolutionary for road safety as the three-point belt. Zero vision is well known and something we all sign up for. It is an important basis for our work on road safety. No one should die or be seriously injured in traffic. The Coronapandemia has been evident from many different aspects. Most of all, it has been felt by those who have lost a close friend or family member or who have seen their life's work go down. The pandemic has brought about many changes in our lives, some perhaps more noticeable than others. In March, the Police Authority decided to pause routine sobriety checks to protect its employees from covid-19. Controls were still carried out but only if there was a suspicion of drunk driving or if a tip was received. One effect of this was that the statistics showed a reduction in registered drunk driving in Sweden. The police warned, however, that much pointed to the opposite. A general knowledge of the limited controls is believed to have spread, which may have led to more – not at all fewer – choosing to get behind the wheel after consuming alcoholic beverages. The risks of action persisted but during this period without the risk of being caught. The pandemic is not over yet, but we have learned to live with it for the moment. The police resumed routine checks in a way that both ensured employee health and contributed to road safety. Regardless of how it feels at the moment, the pandemic also has an end, and hopefully life can return to normal in the near future. However, the pandemic has also awakened many people that the level of preparedness must be significantly increased, as for me too. When this crisis is over, we must be ready for the next one. One might think that preparations for crisis have nothing to do with today's topic of debate, but what I am trying to highlight is that when we prepare for crisis, we must not forget about road safety. Madam President, I would like In the debate, the car tends to be seen as a problem. I would like to emphasise that this is a dangerous way to go. The truth is that Sweden consists of a lot more than big cities with subways and trams. In these places it is not possible to get around in any other way than with the car. For many, it is a symbol of freedom that means the difference between active choices and passive dependence. If we are serious about living and living throughout Sweden, we must therefore be able to support it in this debate as well. Transport is a very basic and often overlooked social need. In this context, the importance of the right speed on our roads is particularly great. Speed limits fulfil a very important function, but lowering speed is not always right. If the decline is due to the condition of the road or delayed maintenance, perhaps there should be a discussion on how to rebuild the road. That is why we want to see a review of all the routes in order to ensure that the right adjustments are made. Madam President, I would like The driving licence is for many a key to freedom. It is often a prerequisite for young people, not least, to get their first job and to know what adult life has to offer. As a driver, one has a great responsibility, since one careless act can affect so many more than one. It is important that Swedish drivers are well educated, but we note that the queues for traffic schools and driving are too long. In this context, we believe, among other things, that there is a need for an analysis of the whole training of driving licences. I would also like to emphasise that illegal driving schools are a growing problem in Sweden. In order to stop this development, we see that dual command in private cars should be linked to the condition of mentoring during practice driving. Today's EU legislation means that every level of motorcycle driving linked to cubics requires a new driving licence and a new driving licence. This is an unreasonable model which could be equated with the fact that a car driver would be forced to take a new driving test when he changes to a larger car, for example. Sweden should therefore work actively within the EU to simplify the licence in this part. Madam President, I would like We can see that the problem of counterfeit and invalid driving licences is growing. At present it is basically risk-free for drivers from countries who do not have a well-functioning driving licence register to drive a car in Sweden without a driving licence. Sweden needs more police officers on the road to prosecute this crime. It is also likely that more stringent legislation and sanctions will be needed with the requirement to present a valid driving licence. According to the judicial system, it is often not possible to prove that individuals lack a driving licence, and since there is no requirement for people who are not registered in the country to hold a Swedish driving licence, they cannot be sentenced for illegal driving either. Apart from the fact that this could endanger the lives of both the driver and the environment, we would point out that it sends a dangerous signal that the law does not apply to everyone. Here we see the need for a proper review of existing legislation. Madam President, I would like Who you have as a doctor or where in Sweden you live should not decide whether you can keep your driving licence or not. Sometimes there may be reason to make a road-medical assessment of the suitability of driving licence holders. It is never a simple matter to make such a decision. As I began my speech, the driving licence for many is a key to freedom and mobility. But I have also pointed out the responsibility of driving, and that responsibility does not end in one's own health. It has come to light that doctors make various road - medicine assessments, which have led to people being allowed to drive even though they may not be allowed to drive for medical reasons. Today there are no national guidelines on how the assessments are to be carried out, and the centres are testing in very different ways. This means that where the person lives determines how the assessment is done. We do not think this is a routine that increases road safety. Therefore, we see a need for an equivalent, nationwide competence in road medicine with clear guidelines for assessments, both to ensure that the assessor and to ensure that drivers comply with current traffic medicine safety requirements.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-615	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Helena Antoni said in her speech. We agree touchingly on the zero vision and the importance of strengthening safety on our roads. What I do not agree with her, however, is reservation 8 to which Mr Antoni referred. Among other things, it is proposed to increase the speed limit to 130 kilometres per hour in Sweden. I understand that the Moderates think that this is a given that road safety can be guaranteed. How to do that I do not really know, because we know that at higher speeds also increases the risk of accidents. What I think you are completely missing in the reservation is the environmental impact of increased speeds. We know that if you travel faster with a fossil driven car, emissions increase significantly, as fuel consumption increases. If you increase the speed from 110 kilometres per hour to 130 kilometres per hour as you propose, I would say that emissions increase by about 20% to 25%. If all Swedes only kept to the speed limit, emissions from our cars would be reduced by 700 000 tonnes each year. It is therefore incredibly large emissions caused by too high speeds. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask Helena Antoni how you thought from a climate perspective when you propose an increase to 130 kilometres per hour?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-619	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! I note that Jens Holm does not really discuss the problem of being able to live and live throughout Sweden. There we see that efficient transport is extremely important. The environmental impact is, of course, also something that we need to take into account, but this proposal basically means that we want to see a review of all Sweden's roads and see what we can do to both raise and lower speeds according to what suits best on different routes. That is what the proposal is fundamentally about.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-621	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to ask Helena Antoni if she is not behind what is on page 143 in reservation number 8 from the Moderates among others. You write that the standard for new construction of motorways is adapted for 130 km/h. Before that, you are arguing that in other countries you can drive 130 kilometres an hour. We know that increased speeds lead to increased emissions. Does Antoni not support the proposal of 130 kilometres an hour? How do you view the environmental and climate aspects of the whole thing? ( First VICE PRESIDENT: I would remind you that we talk through the President and do not use you or you. )
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-624	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support what we have written in our motion, but just as Jens Holm mentioned here, Madam President, there is a reason why it must be possible to live and live throughout the country. We need to look at how we can make transport even more efficient. On some routes it may be necessary to increase speeds and on other routes reduce speeds, just as Jens Holm lifted up in his speech. We would like to see a review of the whole so that the Swedish road network is as effective as possible.
i-R7HRFDXgFfh3ko2A5XoxEB	Madam President, I would like We will discuss road safety and the Transport Committee's report number 6. I shall begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 15. What is road safety? Is it to mount automatic speed cameras along our roads, or is it much more complicated than that? For me who have devoted almost all my adult life to road safety, this issue is important! Everyone who is in traffic should of course feel that the traffic environment is safe. It is therefore also important that we all comply with the applicable traffic rules. It is equally important that the roads are maintained, both summer and winter. Traffic has increased, and the traffic environment is becoming increasingly complex where many vehicles are to co-operate on a relatively limited area. Sometimes a driver falls into attention, and then the accident can quickly be there. Madam President, I would like One of the worst working weeks I have experienced occurred almost 20 years ago. In one week, seven people were killed in traffic in Skaraborg alone. In all of these accidents, I would investigate the cause. One is humbled by such a difficult task, and one is touched in a way that cannot be described with words. Each of these victims has a large circle of people around them — parents, children, siblings, relatives, and friends. Every death in traffic affects many people, not least those who have to act at the scene of the accident and in the investigation that follows. Road safety is therefore of concern to all of us. For each of us in this House, it is important that we act to increase safety on our roads. That is our duty to the motorists. Madam President, I would like On February 6, a group was created on Facebook after an accident that cost a professional driver his life. Today, the group has more than 2,400 members. The purpose of the group is to demonstrate how poor maintenance is on our winter roads. In debates in this House, we are often told that there are no budgetary restrictions on winter road maintenance. But, Madam President, how is it that the roads look like they do during the winter? The country's professional driver has an important message for us politicians – winter road maintenance is not working! They know - for they travel on the roads daily, every day of the year. They put their lives at risk, literally, for our society to function. Madam President, I would like Professionals make sure that the country's industries work, that food production works, that health care works, that we have food on the table and clothes on the body. In short, professional drivers make sure that our society works! Is it not a reasonable requirement, then, that the driver can do his job in a traffic environment that works, summer or winter? Road maintenance is currently severely behind schedule, and funding needs to be increased in order to stop the decline of the Swedish road network. Road safety must start at primary school. Getting knowledge of how to behave, walk and ride in traffic at an early age is a good basis for developing into a safe user. We Swedish democrats believe that children benefit from this knowledge later in life when it is time for moped, motorcycle and car. In addition, some of the children will become professional drivers and have the way as a workplace. It is therefore important that education to a good user starts at an early age. Madam President, I would like Alcohol and drugs are a growing problem in traffic. According to the research, every 500 cars have an impacted driver behind the wheel. It is a frightening figure that should be considered. We know that the risks increase significantly with affected drivers, and statistics also show that alcohol or drugs occur in too many accidents. The Swedish Democrats believe that drug and alcohol controls must be significantly increased. Alcohol and drug-affected drivers have to get off our roads. Madam President, I would like Work carried out on the road or near the road is fraught with great risks as many motorists do not respect signs and warning lights to the extent that would be desirable. Each year, several people are killed or injured when doing work on or near the road. So-called TMA vehicles are used as protection for various work on the road. You have surely seen these vehicles with their large airbags, flash lights and warning signs. These vehicles have the task of drawing the attention of other road users to an ongoing work with their presence and equipment. Despite both signs and warning lights, these TMA vehicles are hit by a car, and these collisions are increasing in frequency. The situation is not acceptable, and I often talk to people who experience insecurity while working on the road. This development must be reversed, and for us Swedish democrats it is a priority. Madam President, I would like Sometimes regulations are so designed that they simply create violations of the law. Let me give you an example. A few years ago, an EU provision on lighted daytime running lights, known as DRL lights, was introduced. In connection with that function, the rear position lamp of the vehicle is not required to be lit during daytime. This change is contrary to previous national provisions, where there was a requirement that lamps and headlamps prescribed for the vehicle should always be lit during travel. In today's cars there is often a function where the rear position lamps are lit at dusk. Most road users are likely to use this function as more and more cars in traffic are being driven with darkened rear position lamps. What happens when you connect to a trailer to the car? There is a requirement for rear and side lamps to be lit on the connected trailer even during the daytime. Here's what the Traffic Regulation says, Chapter 3. Section 68: When travelling by road with a vehicle, lamps and headlamps prescribed for the vehicle shall be switched on. If the prescribed daytime running lamps are used – i.e. the DRL lamps – a car during daylight, lamps need not be switched on at the rear or side of the vehicle. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like So it is the car that is the exception of the requirement for lights on the rear and the sides, not the trailer! It should be noted that this requirement of the Traffic Regulation is not widely known to road users. Legislative drafting has put many road users in a position where they risk a fine because they believe that the vehicle system automatically lights the necessary lighting, regardless of whether there is a trailer connected or not. For road users and road safety, it would be better to always require light bulbs when travelling on the road. With a return to the previous lighting requirements, safety would be maintained, and we would avoid a situation where drivers risk fines for not knowing the legal blunders included in the Traffic Regulation. Madam President, I would like Road safety concerns us all, and we in the Swedish Parliament have the tools to increase safety on our roads. Let us jointly increase the security of the country's motorists!
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-645	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the road safety report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. It is an important report that affects us all, no matter where in the country we live. From across the country, I would like to start by talking about wildlife accidents and fences. We see that the number of wildlife accidents has increased every year over the past 10 to 15 years. Incidents of cloven-hoofed game – not least deer, wild boar and elk – have increased dramatically. Developments are worrying and unacceptable. The number of wildlife accidents has increased by 50 per cent in ten years and by 100 per cent since 2003. The accidents cause great suffering for both humans and animals and also lead to social costs that according to the National Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI, amount to 3 – 4 billion annually. This negative trend places greater demands on road safety planning of the road network and the rest of the infrastructure so that the game is kept off the roads. The Center Party believes that this problem should ultimately be addressed within the framework of a review of game management, but that in the short term the Finnish Transport Administration must take greater account of the general danger posed by wild game on our roads and also on our railways. The Finnish Transport Administration has not given priority to these accidents as they rarely occur with fatal outcomes. The work on zero vision – which is very important – focuses on reducing the number of fatal accidents, which means that wildlife accidents do not receive sufficient attention. The Center Party believes that these issues must now be put on the agenda and that we need to work on several fronts in order to push back these calamities. The number of wildlife accidents must be reduced by a more forward-looking traffic planning by the Finnish Transport Agency for wildlife-proof transitions and other measures. Madam President, I would like We note that there are large individual variations within the group affected by loss of visual field. The Center Party's position is that those who are still able to drive in a safe way should be given the opportunity to do so. To remedy the current situation, an investigation is required to examine how a new driving test system on the road can be introduced. Issues that would need to be investigated include what should be included in the test and who has the competence to assess the test results. In addition, the need for changes to the driving licence law and the driving licence regulation would need to be clarified – including the possibility for persons with identified visual field defects to perform driving tests in a real traffic environment, similar to those carried out in cognitive assessments of dementia or stroke, before any withdrawal of the driving licence. The Center Party believes that it is therefore reasonable to ask the Swedish Transport Agency to ensure in a first step that the possibility of using the simulator at the National Road and Transport Institute, VTI, is reintroduced in order to assess the driving ability of persons who have had their driving licence withdrawn due to loss of visual field. In addition, an investigation must be carried out as a matter of urgency to examine how a new road test system for persons with visual field defects can be introduced. The project Chances for exemption courted the Transport Committee on this particular issue in 2020. At that time, an announcement was sent to the government by the committee to deal with the matter. But nothing has happened. That is totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like The importance of visual acuity for road safety is great. Visual impairment can be a common problem in a large part of the population, and it can have a negative impact on road safety. Having a satisfactory view, whatever the level of competence, is a matter of course for maintaining good road safety. It is important to stress strongly that safe traffic behaviour is based on a good overview of the traffic environment. In 2009, the EU common vision requirements for driving licences were tightened, which now have a light vehicle level and a higher one for the higher driving licences. In Sweden, drivers of heavier vehicles must check their vision as one of several health aspects every five years after they have reached the age of 45. There are currently no equivalent requirements for private individuals. Once the licence has been issued, no more vision checks are required under the current regulations to keep the licence. It is a discrepancy between different permissions that is very illogical. We believe that consideration should be given to examining the need for and reasonableness of mandatory visual tests for individuals in connection with the renewal of driving licences after the driver has reached the age of scientific evidence that his vision is gradually deteriorating. In the committee's earlier discussion of the issue of eye checks, various proposals have been dismissed, taking into account, among other things, uncertainty about the costs of health checks. Here it is important to stress that these health checks should not be confused with eye checks. In our opinion, having visual checks on an optician every ten years, and in a system that already exists for those who are professional drivers, would entail very marginal costs. In the committee's discussion of the matter, reference has also been made to the Transport Agency's review of vision a few years ago. We note here that, despite the reference made by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it has not been included in the mandate to investigate the need for periodic visual checks for the lower competences. Against this background, we believe that the need to introduce regular mandatory eye checks for individuals after a certain age needs to be investigated from a road safety perspective. To conclude, Madam President, I therefore support the Center Party's reservation number 5.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-664	Madam President, I would like At the moment we are seeing a downward trend in the number of people killed in traffic. In 2016, 270 people died. Except for 2018, which was a dark year when 324 people died, the trend has been positive. According to the figures reported by the Swedish Transport Agency on its website, 190 people died in 2020. Even if every unaccounted for is too much, it is a good thing that we have a downward trend. There are a few factors that contribute to this development. One is that vehicle manufacturers have developed increasingly safer cars, which react before we as drivers have time to react. New vehicles with new safety solutions contribute to increased road safety. Another factor is the recurrent work carried out by the Finnish Transport Administration, other authorities and civil society in order to create safer roads through, among other things, education, central railings, wildlife fences and better roads. Madam President, I would like Although developments are moving in the right direction, accidents leading to deaths and serious injuries often affect motorcyclists. One reason is the railings with wire. Motorcyclists get stuck in these railings, leading to greater and more serious personal injuries. Between 2005 and 2017, an average of 40 motorcyclists per year died in traffic. Approximately one in ten motorcyclist killed in traffic was killed as a result of collision with cable rails. We would like to stress the importance of increasing the safety of our motorcyclists. If we are to achieve zero vision, we need a review of railings on Swedish roads. We believe that Trafikverket will develop an action plan to eventually replace cable railings with modern versions of traditional road railings. Madam President, I would like If we are to achieve the zero vision, it is important that there is a popular basis for the measures that are being implemented. Today, road keepers are slowing down roads in urban and rural areas. This may be justified in individual cases, for example at schools or in other areas that need calmer traffic. But when roads are narrowed and speeded down, where citizens feel that this is unjustified, they create a situation where road users risk losing respect for traffic laws. There is also a tendency for speed reductions to be made instead of road investments. The Finnish Transport Agency is clear about the great need for reinvestment and maintenance on our roads. Speed reductions must not be an alternative to better roads. We believe that it is wrong to reduce the speed of individual roads on the basis of general principles. Speed limits should be adjusted according to traffic volume and road standard. It is bad when speed reductions are used as a way out because the government does not provide the Finnish Transport Administration with the resources needed to maintain our roads. We also believe that more work should be done on digital speed signs that detect traffic frequency, road conditions and time of day. Furthermore, we believe that we should increase the speed to 130 kilometres per hour on several of our motorways. Madam President, I would like In order to improve road safety, it is important that we continue the preventive work on zero tolerance of alcohol and drugs in traffic. According to the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, 26 600 drunk driving offences were reported in 2019, which was an increase of 3 per cent compared to 2018. The number of reported drug-driving offences has also increased by 2 per cent to a total of around 14 600. We note that the statistics show that the number of reported cases of drug-driving has been increasing since 2010. The Finnish Transport Administration's statistics on fatal accidents in 2019 show that 53 people were killed in alcohol or drug-related traffic accidents. This represents 24% of all road deaths that year. Against this background, it is important to continue the preventive work on zero tolerance of alcohol and drugs in traffic and to ensure that the Police and Coast Guard are given sufficient resources for sobriety checks and the possibility to prosecute infringements. We also maintain that it is important to place automated alcoboms in more strategic locations, for example in our ports. For most, it is obvious not to combine alcohol and drugs with driving. Yet we can see that in Sweden at least 15 000 journeys are made every day with drivers who are so affected that they would be convicted of drunk driving if they were discovered. The Finnish Transport Agency's in-depth studies of fatal accidents show that 23 percent of those who die do so in alcohol-related accidents. Today, a person who has received or is at risk of having his driving licence withdrawn because of driving under the influence of a drunk driver has the opportunity to continue driving with an alcohol lock installed in the car. If we introduced alcohol locks as standard for all new passenger cars, many lives would probably be saved. We therefore believe that alcohol locks or any other technology that prevents drunk driving as a mandatory in all new cars should be investigated. Madam President, I would like B driver's license is often a requirement to get a job. Today's regulations make it difficult for those who try to take a B card. An approved proficiency or driving test is currently valid for two to four months depending on when the test has been carried out. Both tests must be approved within the period of validity; otherwise a new fee will have to be paid and both tests will be repeated. We believe that the system should be more flexible. As a result of covid, the Swedish Transport Agency has decided to temporarily extend the validity of an approved proficiency or driving test to six months. We believe that this should be permanent. Unfortunately, we know that there are illegal driving schools that deceive those who wish to take a driving licence. Some people have put in systems to abuse the possibility of private supervision of driving students by conducting illegal driving school activities against payment. In order to combat illegal driving school activities, we believe that the number of pupils who can be supervised by a private individual can be reduced from fifteen to five. In order to make it even more difficult for illegal driving schools, we propose introducing a specific colour for registration plates for registered traffic school cars, which makes it easier for customers to see which are serious and also facilitates police controls on illegal driving schools. During 2019, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to propose measures against fraud in driving tests and illegal training activities. We believe that far too little has been done to tackle these problems. That is why we believe that there is still a great need to carry out a complete review of driving licence training by setting up a parliamentary inquiry. Madam President, I would like The A tractor is an important means of transport for many young people, not least in rural areas. The A tractor promotes an engine interest, and it can be noted that more and more young women are starting to drive these vehicles. According to current regulations, an A tractor must be designed for a speed of not more than 30 kilometres per hour, and an A tractor may be driven with an AM driving licence, which also applies to mopeds. The training consists of theory and practical parts. A-tractors often have dual gearboxes with speed controller. This means that the A tractor gets a speed of 4,000 – 5,000 at a speed of 30 km/h. The high speeds result in gearboxes and other breakdowns. Furthermore, the long queues that arise result in those who own A-tractors being tempted to trim them. One way to deal with these problems may be to raise the maximum speed of the A tractor to 50 kilometres per hour. In this way we reduce the temptation to illegally trim A-tractors. Madam President, I would like Visual impairment is a common problem. Satisfactory views are a matter of course for maintaining good road safety. In 2009, the EU strengthened its vision requirements. In Sweden, drivers of heavier vehicles must undergo visual checks at regular intervals. There is a difference between private motorists and professional motorists. We would like to see a change in this so that visual checks are carried out by other road users too, as it is important to have good eyesight in traffic. Last but not least, I would like to point out that we believe that more traffic police and more vehicle controls are needed to increase traffic safety. We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 8.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-689	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson said in his speech that the Christian Democrats want to raise the highest speed on our motorways to 130 kilometres an hour. This is exactly what is in the reservation that KD has together with M and SD, reservation number 8 that Jacobsson claimed to approve. As in my previous shift with the Moderates, I would like to ask the Christian Democrats how you think from an environmental and climate perspective. We know that increased speeds lead to increased fuel consumption and that increased fuel consumption leads to increased emissions. If you go on your line and speed up from 110 to 130 kilometres per hour, for example, emissions will increase by about 20 – 25% – this at a time when we need to reduce emissions from road transport, not take measures that increase emissions. What were you thinking there, Magnus Jacobsson?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-691	Madam President, I would like You can imagine a hot summer day. It's starting to suffer for night. You get in the car and are on your way home from a meeting in Gothenburg or somewhere else. You sit back, you put on some good music and you drive. This, Madam President, is for many of us in Sweden a form of freedom. It is a freedom that has enabled us to expand our labour market regions and that allows us to drive our children to the activities they are going to and that we have come to know people far beyond our old parishes. Madam President, I would like Environment is an important issue. But social freedom is also an important issue. Respect for the law by citizens is an important issue. As far as the environmental aspect is concerned, I am absolutely convinced that in the same way that the car was once a freedom machine, a revolution that brought people closer together, new technology, new vehicles and new variants of fuels will lead to the problems raised by the Left Party and Jens Holm becoming smaller. For me and for the Christian Democrats, it is not the car that is the problem. It's not freedom that's the problem-- it's the fuel that's the problem. In our exercise we have put forward several proposals to increase electrification and look at how to work with hydrogen and electric roads. For us, freedom and the environment are something that will go hand in hand. Welcome to join us on the journey!
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-697	Madam President, I would like I wonder what happened to the Christian Democrats' idea of stewardship, which talks about social freedom and obviously wants you to push down the accelerator and drive as fast as you want. I'm talking about social justice. I have met people in Bangladesh who have had to leave houses and homes because of sea level rise and extreme weather, which has been caused by our emissions, Magnus Jacobsson. We need to reduce emissions from road transport, not increase them. Madam President, I would like I don't think Magnus Jacobsson answered my question. The Christian Democrats here, together with the SD and the Moderates, are putting forward proposals that increase emissions, not reduce them, and they are just talking about freedom. I agree that it may be a freedom thing to drive a car by yourself on a highway, but we have to stay within reasonable limits, don't we? If a measure leads to a 25% increase in emissions, it simply costs too much. Then we may have to maintain current speed limits and not raise them to 130 kilometres per hour. Again, I want to hear from Magnus Jacobsson : How did the Christian Democrats think here, from an environmental and climate perspective and from what I still thought was a Christian Democratic thought, namely that we should care for this planet and not cause it and people on other parts of the globe increased problems through our emissions? Emissions increase by 20 – 25 percent with KD's proposal. What were you thinking there?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-703	Madam President, I would like I am not sure that Mr Holm heard what I said. For us, there is a value in freedom. There is value in respecting law. There is a value in citizens being able to move whether they live in the city or in the country. But there are also policies aimed at improving the environment. Member Jens Holm knows that in our motion we Christian Democrats are behind bonuses, for example – malus, although we do not want to change those rules now but are satisfied with the rules that have been. We see a shift to more electric vehicles and flex vehicles. In our exercise, we have also been clear about investments in electrical solutions. We see that electrification can contribute to a much better environment. We are in favour of mixing in more environmentally friendly fuels and more biofuels. In the area by area, we point to how to improve environmental performance. But we do not believe, Madam President, in this grey-bag shirt and the almost medieval whipping for a good environmental policy. We believe in the honest old Swedish model where we have a vision and set a goal, and then we interact with business and politics. Nor have we argued for total free speed. We have argued that the speed should not be reduced up in Norrland, where the roads can withstand 90 kilometres an hour. That's where the reduction is just about not having done the maintenance. We argue that you can raise to 130. If the fuel is unchanged, it is correct that there may be an environmental impact, but now we believe that the industry is actually changing. Welcome to the trip!
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-710	Madam President, I would like We Liberals support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 29, which deals with road medicine investigations. The number of people killed and injured in traffic must continue to decrease. The main causes of accidents are too high speed, alcohol and other drugs as well as fatigue and other inattentiveness. The human factor is responsible for about 90% of all accidents. Let me take an illustrative example by referring to an article in yesterday's industry. It addresses the development of self-driving cars and the opportunities offered by technological developments. The American company Waymo, which develops self-driving cars, has reconstructed the fatal traffic accidents that have occurred in the American city of Phoenix in the last ten years. Waymo had the car run like a robot instead of a human driver, that is, like a self-driving car. The results show that 92 percent of fatal accidents could have been avoided if the car had driven itself instead of being driven by a human. If the 92 per cent were converted into Sweden's fatal accidents in 2019, this would mean that instead of 221 deaths we would have had 18 deaths in traffic. It's an amazing decrease! It is a hypothetical reasoning, but it highlights the potential of technology. I refer to this example to show that the self-driving technology is moving towards an increased degree of maturity and provides opportunities to radically reduce the number of road accidents on our roads. The safety of our transport system is a top priority for us liberals. If you do not feel safe, you avoid travelling, and thus hinder the individual's freedom. Sweden is the best in the class globally when it comes to road safety. Madam President, I would like We in Sweden should be proud of what we have achieved, but we must continue. The development of self-driving cars started because there was a need to increase road safety and reduce accidents. In light of the rapid development in this area and the great potential, Sweden needs to develop an action plan for how the self-driving technology should be introduced in Sweden. The technology's coming. Let us be prepared and be the best in the world to use this technology to increase road safety! Hand in hand with new technologies for improving road safety, the basic maintenance of our roads must also be increased. We want to see increased maintenance throughout the country, not least in the less trafficked road network. Road safety should not depend on where you live. Road markings, for example, have a decisive impact on road safety. The Liberals have received support in a previous report for a review of the standard on road markings in our country, both for today's drivers and for future self-driving cars, which depend on road markings. Road safety shall continue to be a priority for road maintenance. The risk of accidents increases with higher vehicle speed. Greenhouse gas emissions and noise also have the same connection. In addition to personal suffering, the environment is deteriorating, and society's costs are increasing. I would like the government to investigate how the state authorities can, in the procurement of transport services, impose requirements for sustainable speeds, i.e. for those who supply transport services to keep speed. We want to see the traffic police in the country relieved of their duties so that they can focus on the important traffic control work. This is important in order to reduce the speed of our roads. We also want work on alco-boms in our ports to continue. Liberals believe in the potential of technology to increase road safety. We welcome the fact that more and more cars are connected and can share their road safety data, for example, to identify ice spots or other cars in case of cloud vision. Collaboration between different actors to make better use of the information in today's cars in order to improve the traffic environment should be encouraged. The same applies to the possibility of sharing data, so that research and development based on accident data is facilitated, of course, with regard to personal integrity. The increase in the share of vulnerable road users in accidents is a worrying trend, not least the proportion of cyclists. Liberals want to see a review of cyclists' traffic environments and strong measures to make these environments safe for traffic. The number of moped cars has increased sharply over the last two years. It requires the same driving licence as an EU moped, as the moped has 45 kilometres per hour at maximum speed. The Swedish Transport Administration has now sounded the alarm about the poor road safety in moped cars. We Liberals are in favour of new technologies, while at the same time we believe that new types of vehicles need to be evaluated after some time, not least in terms of road safety. A moped car has completely different road characteristics than a moped, and yet the driving licence is taken through training and driving on a regular moped. We therefore believe that the responsible authority must be given the task of evaluating the new vehicles, including accident statistics, road safety and use. Madam President, I would like We can all suffer from diseases that can affect our driving ability. Therefore, it is important that there is a uniform way of testing whether a disease or impaired vision really affects the driving ability itself. It is the doctor's responsibility to assess a patient's medical fitness to keep his driving licence. This is based on a traffic medicine study. Today it is carried out with different skills, and waiting times are often as long as six to ten months. In addition, there is a lack of uniform national rules on how the assessment is to be carried out. As a result, the various traffic - medicine centres in the country test in different ways, and as a result, it is where in the country the person lives that determines how the assessment is done. That must not be the case. There is also currently a lack of follow-up of driving ability assessments to see if the desired result is achieved. A comprehensive picture is needed to show whether those who pass the tests can keep the driving licence and then manage in traffic, to know if they have the right methods. The Liberals therefore believe that the responsible authority should be given the task of ensuring that traffic medicine assessments are made without delay, with high competence and in the same way throughout the country. There is also a need to develop coherent national guidelines on how to assess the ability of a patient to drive. We also believe that the need for mandatory visual tests for individuals in connection with renewal of driving licences after a certain age should be investigated. Today, professional drivers are going to test themselves every five years – is there a need for a similar measure for private motorists? Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention the announcement that the Liberals initiated last year. Now it has been almost a year, but we still do not see any action. It's about the people who test their eyesight. If it turns out that they have visual defects, they must be given an honest chance to show whether their driving ability is really affected by the visual defect. They do not today, but the licence will be revoked immediately if they fail the visual test. This is not reasonable, we think. It affects 1 000 people each year, but research clearly shows that half can still drive safely. The announcement opens up the possibility for people with visual defects to have their driving skills assessed and possibly to get their driving licence back. We want you to be able to re-test yourself in the VTI driving simulator while waiting for methods for driving tests on the road to be developed. We therefore wonder why it has not already been opened up to this, as the VTI simulator has been used in the past with good results. It is unacceptable that things are going so slowly. In view of this, I support my reservation No 29.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-728	Madam President, I would like As everyone in this Chamber knows, we are discussing road safety and the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism No. 6. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. Road safety is an issue that involves, not least the members of Parliament. In total, there are 160 claims in this area, which speaks for itself. Both Members and, of course, political parties but also civil society and the idea-based sector are very committed. Organisations such as MHF, the National Association M Sweden, NTF and many others should have a great credit for the important work they do, also outside the framework of politics. Madam President, I would like Road safety cannot be discussed without mentioning the zero vision. For us Social Democrats, it is an incredibly important part. It was a Social Democratic government that initiated the zero vision in 1996, and we updated it in 2016, i.e. just in time for the 20th anniversary. Last year we also set new milestones for the zero vision, which is about halving the number of fatalities in traffic in stages. It is clear that every loss of traffic is one too many, but objectives are needed to be able to work systematically on these kinds of issues. The whole work on zero vision would never have been possible if it had not been done in broad collaboration between civil society and the non-profit sector, but also with all the authorities involved. Madam President, I would like I think that we in Sweden should stretch our backs when it comes to road safety. We're gonna stretch our backs real good. Last year, just before the outbreak of the pandemic, which is perhaps wrong to say, and before we stopped travelling and meeting people as we did earlier, the third global ministerial conference on road safety was held here in Stockholm. It resulted in the Stockholm Declaration, which states that together, globally, we will reduce road deaths by 50 percent, partly by introducing speed limits to 30 kilometres per hour on routes exposed to special risks, both the risk of mortality and the risk of seriously harming people. The declaration was the basis for the resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly in August, i.e. last autumn. In other words, Sweden's strenuous work is changing the world globally. We'll be very proud of that. Much has been said here in the debate today. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight a few questions, in particular perhaps the question of safety on our roads. It should be safe to move in traffic, both for road users and for those who have the road as their place of work. In the summer of 2019, the Service and Communications Union produced a report entitled "Dangerous for Life". It shows that 91 percent of all road workers in Sweden are concerned about their safety at work. It speaks for itself a little. But that figure has more than doubled in ten years. When the same question was asked ten years earlier, not even half of them were concerned about their safety. These are signs of concern that we must take seriously. Some things have happened. I'm pretty proud of that. The government has developed a new work environment strategy that also points out a zero vision of fatal accidents at work. The prevention of workplace accidents is also identified as one of the most priority areas. The Swedish Transport Agency also reported on the mission they received in 2019 regarding safety-enhancing measures when working on and on the road. It was reported last autumn and is now out for a referral. There are also a lot of interesting suggestions here for how we can increase the safety of those who work on the road. We need to follow this closely. There are things to do. We need to take these proposals seriously and also make sure that it is actually safer to work on the roads, because no one should have to die at work. There's a lot going on. I have also noted that my colleagues have found it difficult to keep up the speaking time. There's so much you'd like to talk about. But I'm still gonna try to round it off. It's easy to be impatient. I think that from time to time we all feel that we would like it to go faster. But we also need to do things in a good and correct way. However, a great deal has happened in recent years. We have introduced the milestone for the zero vision, as I mentioned earlier. We have ensured that requirements for winter tyres are imposed on all axles of heavy-duty vehicles. This is very important for road safety. We have set aside resources to ensure that both citizens and road users are informed about road safety. Very much is about behavioural changes and that we follow the rules and laws that apply in traffic. We have also introduced a ban on mobile use in traffic. Of course, it's very important. I think we've all seen a car swabbling along the road or a walk that's getting run over because a motorist is texting and driving at the same time. So this is a very important part. It is also a question of making people aware that this ban exists and that it is also being complied with. The task that I mentioned about road work concerns both road workers and road users in general. Finally, we should be proud of Sweden. Many people are involved in road safety issues. They are individuals such as parents and school staff, non-profit organisations, companies and not least the automotive industry. But it is also authorities and politicians. Last year 190 people died in traffic, and that is 190 people too many. I am very pleased that we agree that there are 190 people too many. I believe that we must continue to ensure that the infrastructure is adapted and that we continue to take steps to ensure that no one perishes or is harmed in the transport system. Nothing else could be the target.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-744	Madam President, I would like I reacted to three things in Mr Teres Lindberg's speech. The first is the insecurity of road work. I have raised this issue with the Minister for Infrastructure on a number of occasions. We have also written about this in our motions this year and last year. But there is a tremendous inertia in hearing that those who work on the road should also be safe and come home to their families at night. It is road workers, towers, police officers and rescue services who feel that the situation is such that they are exposed to great dangers. Teres Lindberg also mentioned safety on the roads. Safety is also to be able to keep your heavy vehicle on the road when it is winter before. I mentioned in my speech the group of more than 2,400 members who feel that the road is more or less like a skating track. There are many of us who have experienced when the vehicle stops driving when you stand on a hill. Then it suddenly carries off backwards. If you sit in a vehicle with 60 tons and you don't have a stronghold, it's a horror experience that can't be described. This is also something that has been raised. Reasonable maintenance on the roads must be ensured so that this situation does not arise. But now we have a situation where it is more or less a skating track. Then there was this with winter tires on heavy vehicles. It is great that there have been demands on it. But who will check that it is also being observed? It is not enough to create legislation. It must also have consequences if you drive without winter tires.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-747	Madam President, I would like Mr Morell asked many questions. When it comes to road insecurity, it is nice that the Swedish Democrats often highlight these issues in the Parliament's pulpit. I really think they're important. But I am a little concerned that you are saying one thing but acting in a different way. Your track record of insecure roadwork or job insecurity in general is that you are acting in the opposite direction. You are proposing yourself or together with other reductions for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which is nevertheless a very important body to ensure that we get safer workplaces in Sweden. When we stood here last year, you had just voted down the government's proposal to strengthen the ability of regional safety representatives to actually take action when there are unsafe workplaces. I am therefore extremely concerned about the populist approach that you have. You say that these are incredibly important issues and that you think the government is doing far too little. However, when and when the government makes proposals, you are voting against. I'm very concerned about that. As far as winter is concerned, it is clear that we, like you or everyone here, want us to make sure that we have good roads and that the roads keep and thus have a good base and are simply runable. The requirement for winter tyres on all axles also helps us to get safer situations for drivers.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-752	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Teres Lindberg for his reply. If we try to find out who can do what out on the road, it is so that when someone violates the legislation out on the road, only the Police Authority can stop and prosecute. It has nothing to do with the union's ability to do. If someone drives in a way that puts others at risk – if we now stick to roadwork or a rescue operation in the event of a traffic accident – by both speeding and driving so that rescue workers or road workers are otherwise put at risk, there is only one authority that can do something about it, and that is the Police Authority. The police authority is the authority that can do something about it through the legislation. We have to be clear about that. As long as we have the order that it is the Police Authority that has that power, that is also where we must find the solution. Then we must get more policemen out on the road, and we must have legislation that clearly marks against those who put other people at risk. You have to say, this is not good enough, but now you are going to have to pay a sum of money for the next time so that this does not happen again. We're gonna talk about winter road maintenance, too. The group of 2 400 drivers is a professional driver who lives on the road every day, and several of them follow the debate today. They feel that winter road maintenance has become so bad that it is rather a product that creates ice shakes. You put out a brine that thaws a little bit, and then it refreezes. Then you get a clean ice instead. It doesn't matter how good a tire you have; when you get on a hill and get stuck and the heat from the wheels makes the ice melt to water, you can go backwards.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-756	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the winter road team. Of course, we fully agree that this must work. But there is also a lack of maintenance from the beginning. During this period of government, we have increased the national plan by 100 billion. That is an extreme amount of money, and we have added it to focus also on the lack of maintenance we have had on both railways and roads. We really need to continue working on this, and I take these issues very seriously. When we come to the issue of road work, Madam President, I still have to question the view of Mr Morell on how the labour market works. In fact, safety representatives have a huge influence over precarious workplaces. If a workplace is not safe, a safety representative has the right to close it. We wanted to strengthen this possibility and strengthen the right of regional safety representatives to carry out these controls. But you were against it, Thomas Morell. We have also allocated and increased resources to the police during our term of office for checks both by road and in general. It is clear that resources must be made available; the police must be able to carry out the checks necessary for us to have safe roads and secure workplaces. Again, I am concerned about the Swedish democrats' approach to these issues. You say one thing, but you're acting the opposite. When you have the opportunity to vote in favour of proposals that could actually increase safety along the way, you are voting against. And then you stand here and say that the government does too little. I am incredibly sorry about this. I think it is boring and not really worthy of a party in the Swedish parliament to have the populist image.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-761	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I have the greatest respect for Mr Teres Lindberg. I share much of what was said in the speaker's chair, and it is also my experience in relation to our committee and this type of issue that we are often very close. But there are two issues where I am still a little surprised that we do not come all the way, reach all the way through and find each other there too. Of course, we will not find each other tonight, and we will vote differently when the vote takes place. I still wish we could find each other next year. The first issue is the question of good health and the need for mandatory synthesis. This has been highlighted on several occasions. However, we have not really got an investigation that has looked at this very point, but we have talked more about general health checks. In the field of professional traffic, this is a regulatory framework. If I remember correctly, it is after 45 years of age that you test your vision every five years. Something like that would be good. I can only look at myself, who is 53 years old and has had to start looking at my own eyes out of pure self-preservation. I think that, in the long term, we should be able to find a consensus at least on examining the issue. The second issue is legal certainty when driving licences are withdrawn. It is there today that the treating doctor should look at this, which means that it can be very different across the country. Here too, I think we should be able to find a common understanding of uniform assessments and rules and some form of much clearer national guidelines. My question is whether there can be a possibility that we will eventually find a consensus on these two issues. That would be good for road safety.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-767	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Magnus Jacobsson! I think we basically have a consensus here. As far as eye checks are concerned, I can say that I myself am nearsighted. I have one of those markings in my driver's license that says I have to wear glasses to drive a vehicle. That's perfectly reasonable, because I don't see very well otherwise. I have also been involved in the test drive with visual impairment but still within the framework of how bad you get to see, and it is clear that you get a little scared of what is allowed within the limits that exist today. The Swedish Transport Agency is currently reviewing the medical regulations that exist, and it is intended that this will enter into force by 2022. I think that's the way we have to go. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that will ensure that this is complied with and that it works in a good way. I would like to say to Mr Jacobsson that we simply have to give up and wait for what the Swedish Transport Agency comes up with because they have this issue under a lup. It is our job to follow it carefully. However, I do not believe that this is a matter of legislation, but this is a matter for traffic regulations. Then it is on that path that it needs to be dealt with. I hope that both we and the Christian Democrats will continue to play their part on these issues, because this is very important. Let's see if I can answer the question about the field of vision scans. I know there are many who are concerned, worried and, in fact, sad that they have had their driving licences withdrawn or may not get a licence because they have defects in their vision. But I think I can stay there, because my speaking time is up.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-772	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that both myself and Mr Lindberg have our glasses for show and to look good. The question remains. We have received some information from the committee indicating that it may not go as quickly as we wish. I do not intend to stand here and argue in a way that is confrontatory, because I simply do not believe that it serves the cause. However, these two issues – to get some kind of mandatory synthesis and to find a more uniform process in terms of getting a driving licence withdrawn – I would like the government parties to bring with them and perhaps in the long run we will find a consensus there too, whether we will walk by law or regulation. The important thing is that we get a better order. After all, it is quite important to have good eyesight when driving in front of a vehicle in traffic.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-775	Madam President, I would like I'll pick up where I finished last time. This is about visual field defects. I am well aware that many people are saddened and upset. At the same time, however, there is a standard order in which these issues are dealt with. Today, a doctor is obliged to report if a patient is suspected of having problems driving a vehicle. However, when it comes to ensuring that a driving licence is withdrawn, not just any doctor can do so, but it must be an expert in this area. I find it hard to see that this could happen in a different way. I do not think that we should decide politically who sees well and who does not see well, but it must be medical experts who make these assessments. Turning back to the issue of sight tests, I think I know that we will all be following this issue very carefully in the Committee on Transport. This also applies to how the medical regulations that the Finnish Transport Administration will come up with in 2022 will look like. I think that is important; I think it is very important that we follow this on the political side. After all, it is absolutely crucial for people to see when they are behind the wheel in order for us to maintain road safety and, ultimately, for us to be able to reach the zero vision that no one should be injured in traffic. This is an important work that we need to do together in the future too.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-778	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a successful road safety work from an international perspective with zero vision as a guiding principle. Zero vision means that no person should be killed or seriously injured in traffic. Yet about 200 people are killed per year, and thousands are injured. Behind the figures are people, from small children to old people. Everyone is someone's relative — someone's mother, father, children, friend, sister, or brother. In 2009, Parliament set a milestone target for a halving of the number of fatalities between 2007 and 2020, which meant a maximum of 220 fatalities in traffic. That was an objective achieved; according to preliminary figures, only 190 people were killed in traffic last year. Still, there are 190 people — 150 men and 40 women. Work continues. Last February, the government decided on a new milestone to speed up work on the zero vision. The stage target is to halve the number of fatalities caused by road, maritime and air traffic accidents compared to the annual average number of fatalities in traffic during the period 2017– 2019. The number of fatalities in rail traffic will also be halved, and the number of serious injuries in all modes will be reduced by at least 25 per cent. The target should be met by 2030. As a result, all four modes of transport are now covered by the target, which is now also timed. The stage target means that no more than 133 people will die in road traffic by 2030. An important measure that saves lives is reduced speeds. Here our opinion stands in stark contrast to that of the Moderates. Above all, it is important to reduce the base speed in urban areas, where there are many vulnerable road users. Traffic analysis had in 2016 and 2017 a government mission where they analysed reduced base speed. They estimated that at a base speed reduced to 40 kilometers per hour, life saved by 3 to 17 per year would be saved. According to Trafikverket, about 35 percent of the 50 roads have now been reduced to 40 roads. However, the question is whether it is enough to lower to 40 kilometres per hour. In total, about two thirds of motorists maintain signposted speed, but on 40 and 50 routes speed compliance is lower than that. According to NTF, on distances of 40 kilometers per hour, almost every other car drives faster than the signposted speed. The UN Global Ministerial Conference in Stockholm, mentioned earlier, called on the UN Member States to limit the speed to 30 kilometres per hour in areas where there is a high risk of death and serious injuries in traffic. It is a call that obliges. If we were to lower the speed of the bae in urban areas from 50 kilometers per hour to 30 kilometers per hour, the risk of dying for the one hit by a car would be greatly reduced. The risk of dying when hit by a 50 - mile - an - hour car is high, but most of the people who get hit by a 30 - mile - an - hour car survive. Of course, this is absolutely most important for vulnerable road users. I would like to apostrophe my committee colleague from the Swedish Democrats, who said that we have an obligation to the motorists to take action. I say that we have an obligation towards the unprotected road users to take action. If speeds are lowered in urban areas, a more attractive and safer traffic environment will also be created for cyclists and pedestrians, which will allow us to have increased travel with these modes of transport. This would benefit both the environment and the climate and public health. However, there are more roads where adjustments to the speed limits to the design of the roads, with re-signing and renovation, save lives. According to the Finnish Transport Administration's estimates, approximately 16 lives per year can be saved between 2014 and 2025. Seven lives can be saved by re-signing existing roads from 90 to 80 kilometres per hour, as collision violence varies at different speeds. A 50 - mile - an - hour [80 km] collision, rather than an hour [90 km], is a 40 - percent lower risk of extinction; it is not insignificant. The Finnish Transport Agency estimates that lowering the average speed by 1 kilometer per hour on the entire road network would save about 20 lives per year. There are also other positive consequences of speed reductions. Emissions of climate-related greenhouse gases are decreasing. The Finnish Transport Agency states that when the speed adjustments that are now taking place are completed by 2025, the effect is expected to be that CO2 emissions are reduced by 3,000 tonnes per year. The Government considers that speed violations and drunk driving are priority areas for increased compliance. In 2019, the Finnish Transport Agency, in cooperation with 13 other authorities and actors, developed an action plan for safe road traffic. It presents 111 actions divided into three focus areas: the right speed, sober traffic and safe cycling. The actors in this cooperation argue that the speed limits within parts of the 70-road network would also need to be adapted to the road safety standards, but points out that the Swedish Transport Administration currently lacks a mandate to decide on 60 kilometres per hour on state roads. I believe that the Finnish Transport Administration obviously needs to be given such a mandate. Madam President, I would like However, there is one group that dies due to traffic but is not covered by the zero vision. Overall, the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution from traffic is estimated to be around 3,000 per year and each death is estimated to lead to an average shorter life span of 11 years. An extended zero vision is therefore needed, including both those who are killed and injured directly in the event of a traffic accident and those who die as a result of air pollution. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government stated that both exhaust and wear on tyres, brakes and road surfaces are a major source of particulate matter in urban air. In order to reduce the concentrations of larger particles, so-called PM10, measures were taken in 2018 through reduced speed limits, which have had an effect. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government notes that the transport system's negative impact on human health and the living environment is extensive and has not really changed significantly over the past decade. This requires both clearer objectives, such as a broader zero vision, and intensified work. Compliance must be monitored both automatically and by the police. However, a culture should be created where speed violations are as taboo as driving drunk drivers. Here civil society's work on road safety can play a very important role, which should be strengthened. Unfortunately, from many quarters there is an aggressive driving style, not least from motorists towards cyclists. Motorists blow at high speed past cyclists with a hair of benefit. Of course, there are many good motorists who show consideration, slow down and keep distance, but here the few who drive aggressively do very great damage to both safety and safety. There is therefore a need for clearer legislation on respect for cyclists. In fact, we need more cycle paths, including in rural areas. I would like to conclude by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-796	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Berginger for a very good speech. I think the idea of a zero vision for air pollution deaths is interesting. I hope that this is something the government is working on, because just as Emma Berginger said, more than ten times as many air pollutants die from traffic accidents. Of course, both these types of deaths should be combated. We are talking too little about the health consequences of air pollution. With regard to the reduction in base speed, I fully agree with Emma Berginger and the Green Party on this issue. It is about saving lives and creating the conditions for better and more sustainable cities with lower emissions. It is about protecting vulnerable road users, including children. It will be easier to build a society that is less dependent on private carism and where we can travel by bike and time in a simpler way. The Left Party has been exercising about this very thing. We want to lower the base speed, to bend by from 50 kilometers per hour to 40 kilometers per hour. It's reservation number 9. But the Green Party is not behind this, and I wonder why. On the other hand, the Green Party supports the answer on page 52 of the report. It says that it is a great proposal to reduce the speed of the boat to 40 kilometres per hour and underlines that the municipalities play a key role in further development. So the answer to our reservation takes no national responsibility whatsoever. When we vote next week on this issue, will the Green Party vote in favour of the Left Party's proposal for a reduced base rate in urban areas?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-801	Madam President, I would like Then I will again give a little lecture on what it is like to sit in government and how to work as a government party. It operates primarily through its government and through negotiations in its government. We individual members of the government parties also write motions, and I have, among other things, exercised about reduced base speed on a couple of occasions. After all, however, it is through the negotiations in the government and the proposals that the government jointly puts forward that we mainly influence. That is why we do not reserve our reservations on this matter and therefore do not ask for the reservation to be accepted. As I said, our policy is primarily through the government. It is well-lucky that Jens Holm and the Left Party agree with many of the proposals that I highlighted. I would like to see more parties agree with them, because then I think that this policy could become a reality. I wish, not least, to hear from our government partner the Social Democrats and our cooperation parties the Center Party and the Liberals on these issues. However, as we can see, we have not made any concrete proposals to this effect at the moment. Work is under way, and many municipalities are taking initiatives. I myself have been Mayor of Lund and have taken the initiative to reduce the speed there, mainly to 40 but also to 30 in some areas. I wish we could have clearer support for this type of change in which we set a base speed of 30 kilometres per hour in urban areas.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-807	Madam President, I would like I think that a speech should be open to the voters and tell them why they do not vote in favour when a concrete proposal is made. Emma Berginger knows as well as I do that we who sit here in Parliament are directly elected by the people, and on important issues you can vote according to your conscience and follow what should be the party line. What about the government's work to reduce the basic speed in urban areas? Is there any such work at all? Emma Berginger referred to such work going on, but there is nothing about it in the answer to our reservation. What is the timetable for lowering the base speed?
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-810	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are having discussions within government cooperation and with our cooperation parties on a range of issues that are important and have a bearing on road safety. The reduction in base speed is one of them, but at present we do not have a sharp proposal. In the framework of the UN Conference on Road Safety, we have supported what the Stockholm Declaration says about reducing the speed from 50 to 30 kilometres per hour on those parts of the road network where it can be assumed that many can be damaged or killed in traffic. It is an important focus and also something I point out to, for example, Minister Eneroth in the discussions and discussions we have. There are many different ways to conduct politics. Jens Holm should consider what it's like to take responsibility in a government. It is instructive and a fruitful and take-up in negotiations. It is much easier to sit in opposition and be able to vote in favour of all your reservations. But it is nothing more than placard politics. We take a proper responsibility that puts us in a government together with the Social Democrats and thereby can influence and move our policies forward. This has proved successful, and we have been able to deliver on many of the Green Party's election promises. I suspect that the Left Party's list of results is not as extensive.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-814	Madam President, I would like I was apostrophated by Emma Berginger, so then I have to go upstairs and answer. It is extremely important that all road users comply with traffic rules, whether they are in a car or on a bicycle or they are pedestrians. We have a framework for how to behave in traffic, and that applies to everyone. I myself have been a professional driver and drove a bus in Gothenburg and also ordered traffic. When I travel by bus here in Stockholm I usually amuse myself by looking at what it looks like in this city, and I would never in life take employment at SL. Here you have been able to complicate things so to the mild degree that you pull the bus over the bike path to the stop position and then out over the bike path. The honourable Member is talking about slowing down the speed. Here we are talking about fairly low speeds, but there are heavy vehicles involved. If you get under a wheel on a bus, you get maybe three to four tons over you, and what the result is, we don't even have to think about. There are incidents almost every day, and that is because someone is not complying with traffic rules. It is therefore important for each of us in traffic to comply with the rules. You can't just point to the motorists all the time. There is a requirement that pedestrians and cyclists should also comply with the legislation. For example, the zebra law states that pedestrians should have eye contact with the driver and ensure that the driver is clear about what they intend to do before entering the street. But many of us have experienced that a pedestrian walks on the sidewalk and then turns off at 90 degrees Fahrenheit and goes straight ahead. What will result if the motorist fails to stop? It's easy to figure out. Just pointing out that motorists should comply with the regulations is not holding up. Everyone has to do it.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-821	Madam President, I would like I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't think that all road users should comply with the current traffic rules – although there are examples of MPs who unfortunately haven't always followed the traffic rules. I think it is equally important whether you are a motorist, a bus driver, a cyclist or a pedestrian that you follow traffic rules and show respect for each other in traffic. At a lower speed, however, it is easier to deal with rapidly occurring situations. It does not have to be anyone who, by malice, goes out to 90 degrees in front of a car, but it may be a child who has let go of his parent's hand for a moment. As a motorist, one must be prepared to deal with such situations in the environments where they may occur. That is why I think it is extremely important precisely to reduce the base speed in urban areas. As a result, more people are actually at such a speed that they are able to cope with such situations. We need to have a forgiving traffic system that allows you to mate and deal with the situation without causing someone to be killed or seriously injured in traffic when something is not really going as planned. I think that is extremely important. As I said, we have different traffic rules that should handle and control traffic and regulate where, for example, one can easily go over a crossing point. Of course, you should also look and see so that the car that comes towards you has also noticed that you are there as a pedestrian. The same applies, of course, to cyclists who will cycle over a bicycle crossing. However, you have an enormous responsibility if you drive a vehicle like a car, a bus or a heavier vehicle in traffic, and then you also have to adjust your speed.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-827	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mrs Berginger. There is no question of anything but that everyone has to face up to their responsibilities. If you drive a heavy vehicle, you should be extra vigilant, especially if there are children nearby. The consequences will be dramatic if something happens. For us Swedish democrats, it is also important to look at the speed limits so that they are right. Whether it's inside the city or out on the highway, the speed should be adapted to the traffic environment. This may mean that in some areas one may be able to speed up, while in other areas one may have to slow down. In an urban environment it is more difficult to rebuild the traffic environment. We want to separate traffic laws so that pedestrians and cyclists are in one place and the cars on another. This will minimise the conflict areas where a cyclist, a pedestrian or, by all means, a child can get in the way of a vehicle, whether it is a passenger car or a heavier vehicle. If you separate the traffic law in this way, you also have the opportunity to reduce the accident rates in traffic, but you also get a better flow of vehicle traffic and thus reduce emissions. In many cities it is now road bumps, jumps and one or another everywhere that makes it very twitchy. If you are going to accelerate a bus, for example, it can increase speed, brake, increase speed and brake. It is clear that this will lead to increased emissions. For us, the most important thing is to separate the traffic law as far as possible. Where you can't do it, you'll slow down if necessary. In other areas, it may be time to increase the speed. Locking yourself in one line of reasoning does not hold. In the end, however, it is the case that each of us, regardless of how we move in traffic, has to deal with the legislation.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-832	Madam President, I would like No one questions whether you are a motorist, a cyclist or a pedestrian. However, as I have noted here before, reduced speeds make it easier to do the right thing in situations that arise. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I, too, believe in separated traffic. This is precisely why the Green Party believes it is very important that we invest more resources in expanding the bicycle road network with a core road network for bicycles. In this way, we can build more regional cycle paths in rural areas and provide the Finnish Transport Administration with both opportunities and resources to carry out such an extension. That is also why we have pushed through the urban environment agreements, Madam President, with cofinancing for municipalities so that they can expand their cycling networks. In this way, therefore, bicycle traffic can be separated from car traffic, but I also believe that it is very important to separate walking and cycling traffic as far as possible so that the respective modes get the best possible accessibility and so that we avoid conflicts. Unfortunately, as I said in my speech, compliance with speed limits is low, not least when we get to these slightly lower speeds, 40 and 50, where, unfortunately, a lot of motorists are driving too fast. It may seem that 10 kilometers per hour too fast is not much when you would have driven for 40, but it has a major impact on the risk of being killed by a car like that. It is therefore also necessary to adapt the infrastructure with obstacles to speed in the form of bumps or dynamic obstacles to speed. We also need to have good traffic control, both by cameras and by the police who are out taking not only those who drive the drink but also those who drive too fast.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-837	Madam President, I would like Now we shall have a debate on mineral policy, NU18. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, except where we have a reservation of our own. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved. Sweden is a mining and mineral country with a large supply of ore and minerals, which has contributed significantly to the prosperity we have in Sweden today. It is about jobs, welfare and the development of modern society's technological products, which are completely dependent on minerals and metals. Thus, the mining and minerals industry is an important part of forming a sustainable world with sustainable products and services. One of the more well-known examples of this sustainable future is the collaboration between SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall in the project Hybrid, whose aim is to create the world's first fossil-free steel without carbon and which, if it goes according to plan, will deliver the first fossil-free steel already this year. It is a start to a pioneering revolution in an industry that accounts for a large part of today's global emissions. Thus, measures to facilitate both the mining and mineral industries are important efforts from an economic perspective but of course very much also from a climate perspective. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it is important to emphasise that Sweden and our surrounding world are in a very difficult situation. Rarely in modern times has so much changed so quickly for so many in such a short time. Life has been lost. Otherwise viable companies have had to be shut down, and workers had to go home on a Friday without having a job to go to on Monday. These are, at the risk of repetition, difficult times we find ourselves in. This also applies to the mineral industry. We must plan for extraordinary measures and constantly be in a waking state with a view to future events here at home and in the outside world. Let me also point out that the reality of the post-crisis situation is incredibly difficult to assess here and now. The spread of the virus that causes covid-19 risks hitting the exploration and mining companies hard. The exploration companies are often small and specialized in exploration for potentially extractable mineral deposits. The companies therefore also lack revenues from their own mining production, and they rely on external capital to continue their operations. Due to the current situation, the investment climate is uncertain, and exploration companies are at risk of being adversely affected by the situation we find ourselves in. Madam President, I would like It is therefore important to acknowledge the government's measures to facilitate the companies that carry out research activities in Sweden and hence also for the Swedish mining industry. Among other things, I would like to highlight the new provisions of the mineral law previously decided in this House, which means that the research permits valid on 1 July 2020 will be extended by another year from the date on which they would otherwise have expired. At the same time, in August 2020 the Government launched a study on a modern and effective environmental review. A special investigator has the task of reviewing the current environmental assessment system and making concrete proposals for the changes and measures needed to achieve a more modern and effective environmental assessment. The Directive to the study states that the aim is to facilitate environmental and climate-enhancing investments by means of horizontal changes in environmental testing and to achieve faster and simpler review processes while ensuring the maintenance of environmental protection. It is also clear in the mission statement that the investigator may also propose changes to the current environmental testing system that contribute to a green transition through more predictable and efficient trial processes, which shorten the overall trial period and reduce the necessary administration. Madam President, I would like It is important to emphasise in this debate that research and mining activities can be of a very different scale and nature. They may consist, for example, of radioactive, magnetic or electrical measurements, geological examinations, diamond drilling, sampling, sample digging, removal of soil, blasting or general mining activities. Thus, many mining and investigation activities may cause inconvenience and infringement of the rights of landowners and other rights holders. Mining can have a significant impact on the local environment. Therefore, the design of permit processes and the efficient handling of permits need to guide the review carried out with the support of both the Mineral Act and the Environmental Code. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that Parliament has on several occasions called on the Government to take steps to shorten permit processes, and the processing times for the mining and minerals industry will be more predictable. As has already been presented, a review of the issues is ongoing, and an investigator is currently working on proposals for measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental assessment. The final report will be presented to the Government in 2021. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the Government has announced that it intends to appoint a special investigator to review trial processes and regulations to ensure a sustainable supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals. We therefore see no need to recommend that the Riksdag re-express itself on these issues and thus risk anticipating the investigator's conclusions. Madam President, I would like For almost 800 years, the Swedish mining and mineral industry has been our guiding principle – a national wealth that has laid the foundations for what we have today. Looking beyond the horizon towards a new and green future, we see once again that national wealth will play a very large and significant role in the development of a more sustainable world. The current pandemic has brought great difficulties for both the mineral industry and the rest of the world. I therefore welcome the government's announcement, which came as late as 11 March this year, to set up an investigation into a more efficient permit process. Furthermore, I welcome Parliament's steps to facilitate Sweden's current and future industries. At the same time, I would like to raise a finger of caution against moving too quickly before investigations are in place and we know what measures and steps to take.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-852	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are behind all reservations, but for time winning we only ask for reservation 11 on a new mining and mineral strategy. Sweden is faced with a choice of routes. I have said this before, but the Corona crisis is not the only crisis facing the world today. The climate crisis threatens us all, but most of all the future generations who are forced to live with the decisions we make here today. Mining is important for Sweden. It has long played a crucial role in our development and prosperity. Now it has an opportunity to play another crucial role in feeding the technology development needed to cope with the transition. Sweden has gone from being the EU's leading mining and mineral nation to now slipping behind in the measurements. The Canadian think tank Fraser Institute now ranks both Ireland and Finland above Sweden, and we see that the number of research permits granted is in decline. Here we think that a new mining and mineral strategy is needed. It is important that we dare to take the steps necessary for Sweden to continue to hold a position as a mining nation. Madam President, I would like The transformation of society must be characterised by cost-effectiveness and result orientation, not by expensive, short-term symbolic policies. The mining industry generates a significant amount of waste, and today's system runs the risk of authorisation being given to activities that are not economically viable as waste management costs are not included. As a result, mining activities may not have sufficient resources to manage their waste. In this way, activities affect the environment more than necessary. There are great opportunities to increase recycling in the mining industry. On the one hand, it reduces the impact on the environment, and on the other it saves companies money and resources. However, in many cases recycling of materials is not profitable, although metals and minerals can easily be reused. We must start moving towards a more circular economy in this area. It is therefore appropriate to analyse how materials can be recycled and how unused materials in waste and the like can be used more efficiently. This would save both money and natural resources. Recycled materials play an important role in the transition, and we agree on this in this House. But the truth remains that recycled materials will not replace the mining and processing of virgin materials at the latest time. There are not yet enough materials in slag products and depots to feed the technology development needed for the conversion. Madam President, I would like In Sweden there are extensive assets of so-called innovation-critical minerals. Nevertheless, Sweden, like many other countries, is dependent on imports. Increasing the mining of innovation-critical minerals in Sweden has several advantages. Here, mining can take place with high environmental standards. It can create jobs and tax revenues and meet societal needs but also contribute to national security as access to critical metals can be secured. Techniques that are crucial to the conversion require metals. Wind power, solar cells, electric cars, batteries, charging infrastructure etc. all require safe access to metals. This means in the next stage that a strong mining industry is needed to meet this demand. I and the Moderates believe that Sweden should take greater responsibility in this area. Today we are looking at and importing earth's metals developed in countries that exploit their population, systematically abuse and use child labour. Sweden can and should do better. Madam President, I would like Mining involves an impact on the environment and an intrusion on the landowner. A mineral replacement is paid for the intrusion. However, mineralisation is not a priority claim in the event of bankruptcy. This means, in practice, that a landowner can be severely affected by bankruptcy. It is therefore reasonable to review the landowner's right to compensation and how it can be strengthened in the event of bankruptcy. We also see a need to review whether and if so how property rights should be strengthened. Landowners receive no compensation whatsoever for other lost income from, for example, agriculture, forestry or tourism. Madam President, I would like The mining industry pays fees each year to finance review processes and supervision. In the spring of 2015, the government decided to increase supervisory fees by 50 per cent in order to cover the government's expenditure to a greater extent. An increase in the fee for supervision, whatever its size, is much harder to hit a small business than a large one and does not always reflect the actual costs of supervision. We believe that consideration should be given to introducing differentiated supervisory fees that better take into account the scope of the activities and reflect more closely the actual costs. This would be both more effective and fairer. We know that the mineral is in Sweden's bedrock, and we know that it is needed. At the same time, everything is being done to counteract the mining industry. Infinitely long processing times and complicated permit processes kill projects that play an important role in the transition. Kallak and Laver are two of many examples of slowness. Three years have passed without the Kallak mine receiving any sign that a permit would be in progress. In addition, when requesting a meeting with the Ministry of Enterprise, applicants have been refused. When the Parliament's Constitutional Committee presented its annual review of the government, the government's slow-going handling of the condition of the Kallak mine was criticised. The criticism is that the Minister for Economic Affairs has not taken any visible action on the matter for three years. However, it is not just the companies that get caught here. The municipal inhabitants, both those who are in favour and those who are against the projects, are in limbo. People don't know what's going on. This cannot be a process of processing that the government is proud of. Nevertheless, the Minister of Economic Affairs repeatedly claims that Sweden is and will remain the EU's leading mining nation. How? I wonder. With processing times like these, investments will soon begin to flee Sweden to other countries. We have already begun to see such consequences of slowness. Mining companies are thinking of leaving Sweden, and that is serious. In view of this, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision under paragraph 1 on permit procedures and processing times. Responsibility extends beyond Sweden's borders, and sometimes you have to force yourself to raise your eyes and look to the whole even if it is a bit uncomfortable. The processing times and permit processes have been particularly provocative to a great many people. It's time for the government to move from words to actions before it's too late.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-876	Madam President, I would like As I prepared this speech, I looked at my manuscript from last year's mineral policy debate and reflected a little on what has happened since then. To tell the truth – if you ignore the coronapandemine – not much has happened, and what has happened is not much to be over. The governmentLövven handling of Swedish mining and mineral policy could actually be described in a brief summary with the somewhat travesting title On the mining front nothing new. Certainly, a friend of order may wish to point out that we in this House have recently dealt with the issue of state of investigation. For the truth, however, this debate concerned primarily changes to the mineral law imposed as a consequence of the coronapandemia. So it was nothing new in itself – in something that seriously strengthens Sweden as a mining nation in the long term and in nget that makes a real difference. That is precisely the problem, or at least a large part of it, because as I see it, the writing on the mining front would not be anything new like the rather titled novel would be a rather sad story. If you dare to take a limping parable, the young protagonist of the classical work, Paul Bäumer, may be likened to the initial enthusiasm of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The Minister of Economic Affairs does not miss an opportunity abroad to claim Sweden as a strong mining nation, a nation that welcomes investors with open arms, a nation to make great future mining efforts in. But then the two main characters are confronted with reality – the young German with the terrible horrors of the front, the Minister for Economic Affairs with the reaction of the mining companies when they called the cards in the hands of the Swedish government. In four years, from 2016 to 2020, Sweden as a mining nation has dropped from 8th to 36th place in the prestigious Fraser Institute's ranking of countries that international companies consider attractive to invest in. From playing in the same league as the United States, Australia and Canada, we now place ourselves together with countries like Mali and Ghana. It should give you some thought. It should lead to a reaction. This should even lead to panic within the Ministry of Enterprise, Madam President, although panic rarely leads to constructive decisions. But with the government Löfven, things are not as they should be. At the Government of Löfven, an investigation is being set up, which will, fittingly enough, be completed only after the general elections in 2022. So that question was buried until the election. Of course, investigations are important, and of course they can lead to something good. But sometimes I wonder why we cannot act on concrete proposals. Why can we not act before it has gone so far as to have received criticism from almost the whole opposition, the whole industry and even the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee that the handling of permit processes is unacceptable and harmful to the Swedish base industry? There are concrete proposals to revise the existing mineral strategy or to develop a new one. There are some oncrete proposals to introduce a so-called one-stop-shop procedure in permit trials. There are oncrete proposals aimed at strengthening SGU's ability to carry out one of the tasks the authority actually has: to carry out systematic mapping of ore-potential areas. Some of this is nothing new. That is the kind of thing we have been going on about in this House in debate after debate, which it would have been perfectly possible to start investigating years ago if the government had had a genuine desire to move forward. Unfortunately, I do not see that will, and although in the interpellation debates I have had with him, I believe that this is due to cooperation with the not so industrially friendly Green Party. But now I am speculating, Madam President; I must admit that. When I think of the situation and prospects for our mining industry, I cannot help but think of our western neighbour, Norway, where it has been fortunate to find deposits of oil and gas. It is deposits that have generated jobs and prosperity throughout the country, not least in its rural areas. I am one of those who over the years have heard people talk about Norway and its oil billions with a badly hidden jealousy – people who, like me, have thought about what we could have achieved here in Sweden if this was where the deposits were. Then I think that jealousy is completely unjustified. It is unwarranted that fossil fuels are being phased out through political decisions, unless the government is rushing on with the decommissioning of fully functioning reactors so that we can burn with oil instead, but it is a completely different debate. It is also unwarranted because here in our own bedrock, in addition to base metals such as iron, copper and zinc, we have a abundant presence of what is commonly called future oil, namely, innovation-critical minerals such as lithium, cobalt, vanadium, graphite, tellury and other rare earth metals. These are metals and minerals that are pointed out as absolutely necessary in a society that is moving towards a higher degree of electrification and implementation of new technology – what is often called the green transition. The only question is, what do we do with that knowledge? Are we investigating it or are we extracting it? For me, the answer is given. If the government wants clues, answer the following questions: Should Sweden be the winner or loser of the green conversion? Are we gonna sit on the bench or be in the game? Are we supposed to be a respected mining nation or not? Are we going to have an industry that creates wealth, or are we going to set up an investigation? For me who worked in the industry and lived in Gällivare for almost a decade and a half, the connection is clear. What is extracted and produced in my municipality creates prosperity not only in Gällivare and Norrbotten but throughout Sweden. Many of the companies found in other parts of Sweden would not have existed if it were not for the Swedish mining industry. This in turn means that many of the jobs in other parts of Sweden would not have existed if it were not for the Swedish mining industry. I ask myself, Madam President: what would Sweden have been then? Mining has a very long tradition in Sweden. It has been and is still a cornerstone of our export-dependent base industry. Swedish mining industry has a close connection to academia. As far as mining-related research and innovation is concerned, we are so far at the forefront. Sweden's mines not only extract metals and minerals, but also develop everything from energy-saving ventilation systems to heavy trucks and highly specialised mining machines. In the Swedish mining industry, research is being carried out, and new environmentally friendly break methods and processes are being developed for after-work, what is called restoration in the people's mouth. I want it to be like that. I want us to be better at valuing this for the country's prosperity important industry. I want us to remain at the top and be a respected and respected nation in this area. I want us to have the world's most modern and environmentally friendly mining industry. I want us to show the outside world that it is possible without child labour, slave-like working conditions and extreme environmental impact. I want companies to look this way, not that way. This work begins here in the Swedish Parliament by making wise decisions that make it possible. To conclude, Madam President, I naturally agree with all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time when voting, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation number 11.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-897	Madam President, I would like I had not originally intended to ask for a reply to Mr Palmqvist's speech, but I was somewhat concerned when I heard how Mr Palmqvist expressed himself. This led to a question about how Eric Palmqvist and the Swedish Democrats view the processes and how they should proceed. If you are going to make changes in legislation or environmental testing, should you grasp a proposal that comes into the air in this House and implement it instead of making thorough investigations and going to the bottom of what is most appropriate and also hearing those affected by the changes in a reasonable and sensible way? This is a question for Eric Palmqvist. It is painted black in the speaker's chair and is said that nothing is done. We have heard how two investigations have been described, which have now been tickled off. One is about modern environmental testing and comes during the year; it was started earlier. We also have this in that we need to streamline the review processes. But back to the question: What order for this type of change do the Swedish Democrats stand for?
i-Q8BpvNXHzuoX2PfC2dfsmb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for the questions! The fact that it is a normal order to set up investigations to find out if proposals are good is really not surprising. Sometimes we also suggest in our motions that things should be investigated. This is a natural order and nothing that is strange in itself. It is strange, however, when things are debated in this House and described as problems, and proposals are made on proposals in the same debate year after year without anything happening on the part of the government. It feels a bit like it is only during the gallows, when you have even received criticism from the Constitutional Committee, that you actually act. It feels a little reactive to act that way on the part of the government, and it doesn't feel like doing it with the best interests of nutrition in mind. This seems to me to be incredibly worrying. The signal has come from both the industry and the opposition, and announcements are being made. But nothing really happens until the Constitutional Committee makes this criticism. Now we also see the result in Fraser Institute's ranking, where we are dropping quite drastically. I would say that this is the result of slowness and indecision on the part of the government.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-903	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eric, for your answer! I remain concerned about Eric Palmqvist's position in the speaker's chair and also at the turn of the line, where I do not get a clear answer on what processes we should have. I think that mining and mineral industry policy is extremely important. It's the future. It must be sustainable, and we must focus on making environmentally correct decisions. We need to focus on the permit processes. It needs to be more efficient and predictable – of course it is. We now have Hybrid, which is leading and unique in the world and which we hopefully will see results of already this year. However, we cannot grasp proposals in the air and implement them without carrying out detailed studies in sufficient detail to have a good basis for decision-making. I am concerned about whether we have parties in the Swedish Parliament that do not see that this process and the time is necessary and important for us to land right and not sabotage for a industry, in this case the mineral or mining industry.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-907	Madam President, I would like I can give Mr Jonsson an example of something that may not need to be investigated, namely the proposal to either revise the existing mineral strategy or to draw up a new one. There's nothing that needs to be investigated. There is already a mineral strategy that is the only one in force. I think it's from 2013. That question could be raised more or less on volley. It is good that the Social Democrats, which are a traditional industrial party, are very much in favour of mining policy. But you do have a partner called the Green Party, and I do not really believe that they are favourable to the social democracy on this issue. Maybe they're more like a anklet in this context. That is my interpretation of the situation. Member Jonsson says that he is concerned about my position in this debate. But I believe that Mattias Jonsson's concern about my position in this context does less for the mining industry than the mining industry's concern with social democratic policy. I believe that this is a greater concern for the industry than how I express myself in this debate.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-910	Madam President, I would like The mining industry is important for Sweden and will play an even more important role when the energy system is now to be changed in a sustainable direction. Many minerals needed in modern battery technology or other technology applications are available in Sweden. They may form the basis for new mining establishments, often in parts of the country where the supply of jobs may otherwise be limited. Madam President, I would like This is a balancing process – on the one hand, we know that the need for minerals will increase; on the other hand, we do not want to over-exploit because mining has a major impact on the environment, and even in exploration and test drilling there may be negative effects on natural values and reindeer husbandry. It is therefore of great importance that the possibility for stakeholders to influence and that unique natural, tourist and reindeer grazing areas are protected at an early stage in the exploitation process, from research permits to mining. Madam President, I would like We know that mineral imports represent a high risk of us contributing as a country to environmental degradation, human rights violations, child abuse and persecution of environmental and indigenous activists. As competition takes place on an economic basis and in order to achieve the greatest possible profit, the profit lies in differences between countries' conditions regarding environmental protection, workers' rights and human rights. It has improved, but we are far from a global sustainable mining industry. Therefore, we should look at how we can take responsibility for our mineral consumption, partly by researching further and expanding the recycling and secondary extraction of metals, partly by improving the life and material requirements of products. But we also need to look at how sustainable mineral extraction is to be carried out and look at the responsibility of cleaning up after the extraction has been completed. As a country, we have the knowledge, the technology and the resources to do so. For example, the Swedish mining industry in an international comparison has low emissions. It is a work that continues and will produce good results. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party agree that the state processes must be improved in several respects, not only in terms of time but also in terms of the environment. An early warning should be given when applications for processing concessions are submitted if there is a high risk of uncertainty. It will then be up to the applicant company to assess whether or not to proceed in a project that is at risk of delay, where the outcome is uncertain. It is not we who should take responsibility for the companies' willingness to take risks. At the same time, the Swedish mining industry is the lowest taxed in the world, which helps to make Sweden a very attractive country for mineral prospectuses, i.e. companies or private individuals. The mineral compensation that permit holders have to pay to the state and landowners is very small in international comparison. There is a risk that the current regulatory framework will attract rogue operators, who cause irreversible environmental damage and who do not want or have the opportunity to do the right thing when the mining boom turns downwards. Madam President, I would like We also want the mining industry and other natural resources to be happy to have locally established owners, and why not government? Having local anchoring gives more consideration to the local area, it gives more long-termness and it creates a sustainability thinking. We also want society to be compensated for the loss of its common resources, not least locally, i.e. that mining regions should be allowed to reinvest as compensation for the impact of mines on the environment and on surrounding communities. We in the Left Party believe that the mineral industry can develop in harmony with the natural environment in such a way that indigenous peoples' rights are respected, and the areas that we want to protect because of biodiversity should also be respected. Mineral extraction in nature conservation areas must simply not take place, and international agreements must be respected. Finally, I would like to raise the issue of aluminum figures, an issue which the Left Party has been pursuing for a long time. I would like to stress the importance of urgent work to develop a new regulatory framework, of submitting proposals soon to Parliament, and of the proposal that the break-up of aluminum could end in the near future. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-919	Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations in this report, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 5. Swedish mining industry is of great importance for our development. We have traditions, knowledge and unique assets to be cared for and developed in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable way. The mining and mineral industry currently employs around 13 000 people in Sweden and generates many jobs. Together with the steel industry, we account for about one tenth of our gross exports. Mineral policy is linked to the vision of the whole country living. In northern Sweden, a large majority of investments are directly or indirectly linked to the mining industry. The goal must be to protect and develop Sweden's position as a mining nation. But right now, things are going the wrong way. The Fraser Institute in Canada annually examines the attractiveness of different countries and regions for mining investments. Sweden is, unfortunately, about to go down the elevator at high speed. In 2016 we were in place 8. Four years later, we'll be found first in position 36. This is not good enough! Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are happy to speak on the basis of our ideology. One of the pillars of Christian Democratic ideology is the idea of stewardship. I certainly do not claim that we have a monopoly on that concept, but it is an inalienable part of the Christian Democratic bottom plate. It is worth recalling that stewardship is not just about preserving, protecting and conserving. Management also includes a part of processing. To mine iron ore to refine it into stainless steel is not in conflict with the stewardship but, on the contrary, is a logical consequence of the same. Of course, there should be high demands at all levels for environmental protection, ethics and long-termism, but we will fail our mission if we refrain from refining our resources. Madam President, I would like In order for us to cope with a large-scale conversion of the vehicle fleet and industrial processes to be independent of fossil emissions, the Swedish mines are a key factor for the whole of the EU. Today, about three quarters of all battery minerals are produced in Africa, China or South America. With regard to cobalt, European car manufacturers are largely dependent on imports from Congo. What ethical or environmental considerations are taken into account in production there, we can give some thought to. If we want to continue along the path of electrifying the fleet of vehicles, as many of us want and want to see, the only reasonable conclusion is that Europe must strive for a higher degree of self-sufficiency. Sweden is a country that is part of the EU, and it is particularly important that we take responsibility. We need to look at the mining industry from an international sustainability perspective, where nimby – note in my backyard – must be removed from the agenda. Madam President, I would like Permit processes need to be improved. There are probably quite a lot of people who think so in this House. Earlier during this parliamentary term, the Swedish Parliament has decided on an announcement for the government that permit processes must be simplified and shortened and that the government should also return to the Riksdag with concrete proposals. But it is still the case that the processes are lengthy and unpredictable, and nothing really concrete has been presented more than that today, through the media, we have been informed that the government will review and investigate the mining issue. It is still a little remarkable that the investigation previously set up by the government to review the rules on environmental permits was not given the mandate to review the licensing processes. That is why it has now again become the task of Parliament to make another announcement on the same issue. Madam President, I would like Ownership is at the heart of Christian-Democratic ideology. It is a right that every civilised society should protect. It is the basis for economic development and enables management across generations. The Minerals Act has for a long time been the subject of discussion on several aspects. One reason for criticism is that the land value and the soil image value are adversely affected when the permit is granted. Another reason is concern among local residents who are not directly affected landowners. The liability of the operator applies only to the landowner. Ownership has a relatively weak position in the mineral law. The position of the landowner does not really matter when it comes to whether or not mining is to commence on the ground. The landowner does not own mineral deposits either. At the same time, I can see that the transition to a sustainable society increases the need for several of the different minerals covered by the Minerals Act. The future therefore calls for a series of balances, and I am of the opinion that the government therefore needs to set up an investigation that reviews the mineral law and, among other things, looks at whether there is reason to change the extent of ownership below the ground. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight another aspect that should be included in such an investigation, namely how the recovery costs of post-mining clean-up should be managed. The investigation should, in my opinion, make proposals on how to deal adequately with financial security for the restoration of damage. At the same time, the review should take into account society's different needs for minerals and metals in order to cope with the transition to climate-neutral energy use and how Sweden's competitiveness as a mining nation can be strengthened. Sweden has an important role to play in pushing for the EU to be a global example of climate and environmental policy. Madam President, I would like If we are to succeed in the climate challenge, we need to see the importance of the entire value chain, and Sweden needs to act to regain confidence as a mining nation to count on in the future.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-936	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1 and the committee's other proposals and rejecting all motions. The mines have a centuries-old, nearly thousand-year-old history. I think we should ask ourselves the question: what is hidden in this history? We have a long history of distancing the indigenous Sami, and Sweden has received criticism internationally for how this issue has been dealt with. We also have a history of polluting water. Several mining companies have gone bankrupt, and insufficient financial guarantees have left taxpayers with the bill for finishing. As late as the year 2000, the biggest dust quarry in Swedish history, in Aitik, took place. I say this to show that it is serious about the mineral industry and that clear regulations are needed. The question is whether the Green Party has a completely dark attitude towards the mineral industry. The answer is no. There are many companies that work very well and forward. At present, the mining industry is a major emitter of climate change, but they have also adopted a roadmap for a fossil-free mineral industry to 2045. The electrification also goes on at full speed. There are also good recycling projects, with both tip and width. And as recently as today, I attended a seminar on the traceability of metals, which looks at how to trace the proportion of recycled but also climate. This will now be implemented. Then there's the Hybrid project, with steel without coal. All of these are very good projects that aim for the future. That's where we need to land, not in the past. What, then, is the Green Party's view of future mineral policy? I'd say it's simple math. We have a globe, Madam President, but we are living today as if we had four. That really doesn't make sense. If you read on Statistics Sweden's website, you can see that the largest amount of waste in Sweden comes precisely from the mining industry. If you add all other wastes together, mining waste is still the largest amount. But waste is not waste but a resource – we are talking about that a lot today. It is about mining waste but also about things that exist in our cities but that are no longer used, and there you can devote yourself to urban mining. Then there are various end-of-life products, and there is waste mining. Researchers in Linköping have calculated the copper value of cables that are not used, and that is several billion SEK. This is something you need to take care of. If we accept this simple mathematics, we see that the best thing is simply to reduce consumption and reorganise, have other business models and work more efficiently. It's the most climate-efficient thing in the world. The next step is to significantly increase recycling. SGU has written that half of Europe's need for vanadium is in Swedish steel slag but that technology investments and economic incentives are needed. The Green Party believes that there must be legislation on recycling, because it is going far too slowly here. If step one is reduced consumption and step two is increased recycling, step three is that we do not exclude new operations. But it is important that there is a high level of environmental protection, that there is respect for indigenous Sami peoples and long-term sustainable land use. And water should simply not be contaminated. We therefore think it is important to have clear regulations and economic incentives that will take the mineral industry into the future. With the Green Party in the government, we have taken step by step on this. Uranium is now forbidden. It is associated with enormous environmental risks. As far as coal and oil are concerned, the January agreement states that they should be banned. We've removed the tax rebate on diesel. We have also developed a circular economy strategy and action plan. There is one of the priority streams of innovation-critical metals and minerals. SGU has been tasked with precisely recycling metals, and we provided money in the budget for this. Madam President, I would like We are also currently working on alumskiffer and to tighten the regulations on this. That is a very important question. Financial guarantees, which I started with, are also on the agenda. There has been an investigation which has been referred and which is now being worked on. The places Dannemora, Tapuli, Blaiken and Svärttträsk are places where the financial security was inadequate. We need to deal with that. We have just decided on an investigation directive for regulations and review processes to ensure a sustainable supply of these innovation critical metals and minerals. Here, recycling and the local environmental benefits are very important and we also look at how a larger part of the value can benefit the local community. Madam President, I would like I'll give you a summary. We think that we really need to take mineral policy into the future now through this simple mathematics. We only have one globe. We need to reduce consumption and significantly increase recycling. And when it comes to new activities, a great deal of environmental protection is needed. Groundwater should not be contaminated. And we shall have clear respect for the indigenous Sami.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-951	Madam President, I would like Today there are several large and exciting investments in new and green technology in northern Sweden. It is about billions of investments that will help cope with climate change, but which will also be able to provide thousands of jobs that are more than welcome. Some of these exciting initiatives are Northvolt, which is currently building Europe's largest battery factory outside Skellefteå. The area is about the size of 40 football fields or the Old Town, to give perspective. When all the factory lines are ready, up to 3,000 people will work there. Other exciting industrial investments are Hybrid, as some have mentioned, where SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall invest in fossil-free production of steel. A similar idea where steel will be produced via a fossil-free process is underway in Boden with the company H2 Green Steel at the forefront. Madam President, I would like The world needs more metals and minerals, and with the transition to a climate-smart society there will also be increased demand. In the case of rare earth metals needed for the production of, for example, batteries for electric cars, hydrogen storage batteries, wind power, smartphones and drones, there is no production of this in Sweden or Europe. Globally, China is the largest producer with 86 percent of world production. Only a few percent is done through recycling. However, the mining company LKAB is trying to develop methods for extracting mining waste from iron, which is good and necessary. In this context, it is important to mention that there is also a geopolitical aspect here. The EU's eyes are therefore directed towards Sweden, among other things, in order to reduce dependence on China. Madam President, I would like Mining is very important for Sweden and contributes thousands of jobs, not least in rural areas. Unfortunately, however, as many have mentioned here, long and unpredictable processing times for environmental permits, for example, have made more and more mining companies hesitate to invest here. This has made us today less attractive as a mining country. It is not reasonable for a company to have to wait up to ten years for a reply. In the Center Party, we are opposed to the fact that different authorities can appeal each other's decisions instead of speaking with one voice. It creates enormous uncertainty and unpredictability for companies. We are also concerned that the licensing processes are so diverse around the country and that companies should have to decide on location based on which county board can best balance issues regarding conservation of natural areas and sustainable industrial development. It should be the same throughout the country. We also feel that there is no balance between different values. It has become a strong list to preserve, for example, cultural landscapes and key biotopes versus building wind farms, even when the impact on the cultural landscape or species wealth is almost minimal. Finally, we believe that there are far too many different legislations and review bodies involved. It places an unreasonably heavy administrative burden of proof on companies and opens up both arbitrary and lengthy processes. Madam President, I would like I had a lot on my mind today. But I realize that my speaking time is running out. I am grateful that, after almost eight years, the Social Democrats finally took courage to set up a mining investigation in which, among other things, permit processes and processing times will be reviewed. It's about time. Otherwise, companies will choose to invest in other countries, and thousands of jobs will be lost. It does not benefit Sweden, nor does it benefit Europe.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-959	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd speak briefly. We have submitted a motive reservation, that is to say that we want the text slightly changed. We point out that we are in favour of harmonising patent rights and licensing systems, but that we need to relax patent rights if necessary, for example when it comes to medicines. We've seen that now under the coronap. Furthermore, developing countries need access to modern environmental technologies. We believe that technology transfer would benefit from a change in patent law. We believe that the EU countries, together with other industrialised countries, should take an initiative for large-scale technology transfer so that we can get more countries to achieve sustainable development. In my opinion, environmental technologies and certain food technologies that combat climate change should be given similar exceptions in the Trip Agreement that life-saving medicines have been given. I'm in favour of the motivational reservation.
i-247daffe27ba7c0e-964	Madam President, I would like With my representative in the speaker's chair requesting that the reservation be accepted, I would simply like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
