i-f1d3171b23c9d188-24	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked the Minister for Rural Development what measures the Government has taken, or intends to take, to bring down the wolf tribe. Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked the Minister for Rural Affairs how the Government intends to work in order for the Government to maintain the Riksdag's decision to start from the range of 170 to 270 wolves and to ensure the security of rural areas, especially within the most diverse counties. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the questions, and I choose to answer both questions together. Questions about the size of the wolf tribe and how many wolves we should have in the country have been put many times in the Chamber. They have been answered by both me and the Minister for Rural Affairs. I will try again to explain the decisions taken on how many wolves we must have least in Sweden. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2013 to approve the government's proposal in the bill A sustainable predator policy that the reference value for favourable conservation status of the Swedish wolf population should be somewhere between 170 and 270 individuals. In the bill, the Government stated that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would, after Parliament's treatment, assess what the exact reference value for wolf would be within the range proposed by the Government and report the value to the European Commission under the Species and Habitats Directive. According to the European Commission's guidelines, the reported reference value cannot be a range. It must be an exact value. In accordance with Parliament's decision, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden should be at least 270 wolves. The reference value for favourable conservation status may then not be less than the reference value. The Species and Habitats Directive requires Member States to report reference values for all species listed in the Annexes to the Directive every six years. The parliamentary decision was about the reporting of predators that Sweden did in 2013. The vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value in the 2013 bill was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects. The Swedish population of wolf has had a higher inbreeding rate than was included in the analysis, and the analysis therefore contradicted the European Commission's guidelines on the scientific basis for the reference value. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. According to the European Commission's guidelines, between the regular reports that Member States are required to make under the Species and Habitats Directive, countries are constantly re-evaluated the conservation status. Reports are to be made every six years, and in 2019 Sweden reported to the European Commission that the reference value for favourable conservation status is now 300 wolves. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden now rests on the scientific basis that the European Commission's guidelines require of the Member States. The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and royal eagles should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status according to the nature conservation directives, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Animal management should be consistent with our EU legal obligations and national targets. It should be possible for people to live and work in their green industries in the countryside. It is important to create the conditions for coexistence between predators and humans. The State therefore contributes to preventive measures, such as predator-repellent fences, or compensation for damage caused by predators. During its term of office, the Government has taken several measures in this area. The appropriation has been increased by approximately SEK 10 million, and in 2021 there is more than SEK 52 million in the grant. At the end of last year, the government extended the validity of the regulation allowing farms to receive support for, for example, the maintenance of predator-repellent fences, the relocation of grazing animals and the care of injured animals. The government will also remove the current threshold so that support can be given with 100% of the actual cost caused by predators.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-34	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, although what has been said is known. It was perhaps more focused on discussing how we got here and what rights the government and others have taken to increase on the wolf tribe in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Sweden's wolf policy is on the rise, and the current government is more careful to protect the wolf than the people and animals affected by the wolf's progress. It is clear that this government is prepared to sacrifice the countryside as well as the domestic animals, the dogs and the hunt. It apparently thinks it reasonable that people in rural areas should be constantly concerned about new wolf attacks. Instead of ensuring that food is produced, that the land is grazed and that our countryside is exploited, this government believes that the wolf is more important than a living countryside. In addition, Sweden has for a long time been propagating that the wolf is endangered, which is a great lie. We have about 200 000 wolves in the world, mainly in the northern part of the hemisphere. In other countries, wolves are hunted. You protect your tamboture and keep the wolf away from animals and settlements. It is quite natural and necessary, but here in Sweden the government has raised the wolf over the countryside in priority. Here we set aside resources, working time, government decisions and money; the government even allows wolves to be transported and moved around the country. We have employees of wolf trackers and more, all in order to try to increase a wolf tribe in Sweden that is already too large today. Madam President, I would like All this is paid for by society. But when it comes to compensation for victims, that is far from enough. How much does it cost to get rid of your valuable animals? What is the cost of constantly worrying about new wolf attacks, staying awake at night and going home earlier to protect your animals from wolf attacks? What is the cost of collecting the reindeer again after they have been scattered and split up because of wolf attacks? What compensation does the owner receive when a person from the county administrative board is not sure whether the domestic animal is actually killed or torn by wolf? The owner may stand there without compensation, and the County Administrative Board's statistics on wolf attacks can thus be kept down. Madam President, I would like Sweden shall have a reasonable wolf strain. Today, the wolf tribe in Sweden is far from reasonable. Finland has 160 – 180 wolves on an area much larger than that on which Sweden has its 400 – 500 wolves. Yet the Finns complain. Of course there will be problems in Sweden. Finland's population feels that its wolf trunk is too large, but Sweden's wolf density is considerably higher. The government thinks, however, that we should tolerate even more. If we are to produce more environmentally friendly food, allow our meadows and woodlands to be grazed, create biodiversity, create jobs in the countryside and through the hunters ensure that we have game strains in balance, we cannot have a wolf tribe that makes people end up with domestication. People give up their animal production and are forced to move, and wildlife conservation is compromised when hunters do not dare to let their dogs go. The Swedish Parliament has decided on 170 – 270 wolves. The wolf strain shall be within the range. That's what the decision says. My questions to the Minister are therefore: is the decision taken by Parliament or does the Minister and the Government take a different view of this? Is it the Riksdag's decision that applies or is it the Government and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that govern the country? The Parliament has also decided on a game agency that has still not been delivered. When's it coming?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-43	Madam President, I would like The wolf creates great anxiety and harm. Daily we hear about sheep farmers whose animals are attacked, about ewes who throw their fetuses and do not become pregnant and about the hunting corps, which regulates the game tribe, who have their hunting dogs killed or maimed. Preschools keep the children in the day for fear of ironing the wolf outside. How far is it really going to go before the government starts putting rural people and domestic animals before the wolf? The Minister for the Environment began to talk about the parliamentary decision in 2013. I will not go through it again, but I stumbled on a few sentences in what the Minister said. In accordance with Parliament's decision, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden should be at least 270 wolves. The reference value for favourable conservation status may then not be less than the reference value. ♪ Says who? I wonder, Madam President. Who exactly declares the Swedish Parliament in this way and tells us that the decision that has been taken is wrong? We need to move forward at some point in the predatory debate – this endless debate – not least in order for people in rural areas to have confidence in Parliament and for us to put their security first. Madam President, I would like In the Minister's reply, I think I sense a rather lucid tone when she tells me and Mrs Bergheden that questions about this have been asked many times in this House and that they have been answered as many times by the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Development. The Minister for the Environment says that she will once again try to explain decisions made on how many wolves we must have in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister for the Environment has really stopped and wondered why all these questions are constantly being asked. I am reasonably sure that this is because a large number of people and voters are experiencing enormous insecurity and are contacting us as elected representatives in order to be heard. They feel insecure. All the Members of Parliament who have repeatedly answered the questions they have received can be counted together. They then ask questions here to find out how to deal with the situation. That is why many people are pushing the issue and contacting us. That is also why, year after year, we are standing in this Chamber trying to hear from the government. The sad thing about it is that the government does not understand the seriousness of the issues. What is the consequence when security issues are not taken seriously? That is an important question to ask. I think you should look at the torn-up farm animals and domestic animals, listen to parents who are afraid to let their children out on the farm because their land is crossed by several vargrevir and in preschools who are afraid to let the children go out and play. You should get in touch with them. Madam President, I would like I wonder whether the Minister for the Environment has really been in contact with these people who are around the country. The question is what the consequences are when Sweden's highest decision-making body says: No, we do not need to act here. On the contrary, you turn the crane a little further and release even more. Madam President, I would like I would say that the plug has come out completely after the Green Party has been in power and influenced how predatory policy is to be shaped. When you look at the Värmland map you can really see that that is the case.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-52	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint and Sten Bergheden have asked a number of relevant questions about wolf. That is why I chose to go up in the debate. However, I do not think they have received very many good answers from the Minister to their questions. We in this parish, in the Riksdag, have decided on a maximum number of wolves that we should have in Sweden. Yet the government wriggles and refers to something else, to science and research. Science and research are great, but there is research that shows different things. In Appendix 1 of the Species and Habitats Directive, one can read that we shall promote research and we shall attach great importance to taking account of economic, social and cultural needs. But this research is, cautiously said, quite non-existent. The Species and Habitats Directive is the governing document. The Commission has a committee to advise Member States on the interpretation of the Directive. Here, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency seems to have obtained free interpretation rights from the Government, past the Riksdag and the Government. At the same time, the work ignores the actual text of the directive. Instead, it chooses to deal with non-binding recommendations and guidance. It is quite easy to get lost among all research reports produced in the current. Some contain good facts, but many also consist of opinions and fears. The recommendations made by the Commission go much further than the text of the Directive. In Sweden, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has interpreted the recommendations as binding and uses them as legal guidance documents. Madam President, I would like Wolf doesn't know national boundaries. Just as the Directive's description of territory, the range must be defined as the natural area of the species, that is, Scandinavia. We're not doing that today. Madam President, I would like Let's talk about security. I feel that the Minister is slipping to the answer about how she intends to work to ensure the security of the countryside, especially in the most vargy counties, which, among others, Marléne Lund Kopparklint represents. You do not long to have a wolf on the corner or to have to worry about your children when they are going to the bus. You may not even dare to let them go to the bus anymore but have to take the car and drive them. Having a wolf walking towards you when you're out with the dog isn't something you enjoy. It is, of course, a fantastic nature experience to meet a wolf in the open. But it must not be forgotten, Madam President, that the wolf is a predator. The wolf is the largest wild dog. A full - grown wolf weighs between 30 and 50 kilos. The wolf is a typical top computer. Only man and tiger pose a threat to the wolf. We are a little short of tigers here, but we have plenty of people, especially in the countryside where you often move alone. You send the children alone to school, to the bus or somewhere else. The problem that arises when there are too many wolves is that they are getting closer to communities. I have experienced it myself around the corner of the townhouse in Haninge. And last year the wolf emptied an entire sheep pasture in Södertälje. You can't have wolves around schools and preschools. That is why the question raised by Marléne Lund Kopparklint remains: what does the Government intend to do to ensure the security of rural areas, especially in the most dense counties? How can it even be possible to ignore Parliament's decisions?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the questions about the wolf population in Sweden and how Sweden lives up to the EU's species and habitats directive. I'd like to start by zooming out a little bit. When I was little and went to middle school, I learned that there were four wolves left in Sweden. The wolf was endangered, to say the least, not only in Sweden but throughout Scandinavia. There has been a very positive development. We have managed to save the Scandinavian wolf tribe, but it is far from unthreated. We need to ensure that we maintain one of the greatest – and one of the few – predators that we have in the wild. I would also like to point out that we have a world biodiversity crisis. Ipbes, the UN Panel on Biological Diversity, stated last year that 1 million species are close to extinction on our planet. Two years ago, in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a very frightening article was published which states that the biomass on this planet today is 96 percent made up of humans and human livestock. Less than 4% of the mammal biomass on our planet today consists of wild mammals. I believe that it is in everyone's interest that we have functioning ecosystems where we are all part of the food chain where predators are at the top and need to be there to care for our nature in many ways, take care of injured animals in the wild and ensure that ecosystems work. You can see the effects when you remove predators from ecosystems – there can be very harmful effects. That's the first thing. The second is that it is suggested in the questions that there is an increase in the number of attacks and wildlife damage. However, looking at the predator attacks on domestic animals from 1997 to 2019, we see, on the contrary, a sharp reduction in the number of wolf attacks on domestic animals. There was a small increase in 2019, but before that it was a fairly large and significant decrease since 2012. This does not prevent the existence of individual cases where there are major problems with wolf attacks on people's domesticities. The local environment feels threatening, and you get rid of your domestic animals. That's why we've increased the wildlife damage grant by $10 million. There are now 52 million crowns. We have also amended the regulation so that we can now get 100% of the actual cost of predators. We've done this to make you feel safe with your property. But we must be able to live with our wild beasts. As far as the EU is concerned, the EU directive on species and habitats does not provide for a ceiling on the number of predators. The Alliance government tried, but removed the ceiling it had set because it was not in accordance with the EU's directive on species and habitats. That roof, a maximum of 210 wolves, which you had set, you couldn't have left.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-69	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should like to say that the Minister has been characterised by his childhood, when we had four wolves in Sweden. We have 200,000 wolves in the world. The wolf is not comparable to any endangered animals in the rest of the world. The wolf is extremely widespread all over the world. There is absolutely no concern about the degree of threat to extinction. The second aspect raised by the Minister is biodiversity. Then, just as I mentioned in my introduction, it is about the fact that we have grazing animals and production in this country. During this government, agricultural production has decreased to a 30 percent self-sufficiency rate from 80 percent in 1988. Our animal production is declining in the country, and our level of self-sufficiency is falling. We are well below Finland when it comes to self-sufficiency in food. The minister is standing here talking about how we need more wolf in the country. We need more food. We need more work and more life support in this country. We do not need wolf, Madam President. Madam President, I would like Parliament decisions are not general recommendations to governments or authorities, but parliamentary decisions must be followed. The Parliament has decided on a number of announcements that this government only ignores, which is totally unacceptable. If it had happened in any other country that a government or an authority had ignored parliamentary decisions, it would have received major headlines. But here in Sweden the government can obviously continue as if nothing had happened. Madam President, I would like We decided in 2013 on 170 – 270 wolves. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would return with a limit within that range. However, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency concluded that there would be at least 270 wolves. According to Parliament's decision, it would be within the range of 170 – 270 wolves – item. In 2015, the Government then commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to expand this and review it again. Research and other things were referred to. But when it comes to research, the Green Party is not as careful when both economists and environmental scientists talk about that high-speed trains are not something we should invest in here in Sweden. Scientists and economists in this country say that it is uneconomic and, moreover, environmentally damaging. Yet the government and the Green Party are working on high-speed trains, contrary to this. Research, Madam President, is used by the Green Party when one can pursue one's own environmental policy. Then it's important, not otherwise. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency returned to the government with 300 wolves being the level you should have. But we do not have 300 wolves today, Madam President, but perhaps 400 – 500 wolves. The government has released this. We must not by licence hunt shoot down the wolf tribe to a reasonable level. The wolves are considerably more than both the Government and the Riksdag have indicated and than the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has indicated as a minimum. The 2013 decision also made it clear that we would not have any wolf rejuvenation in reindeer husbandry areas. But right now the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is planning wolf regenerations in Jämtland in the reindeer husbandry area. I would like answers to this, Madam President. Does the Minister think that we should have wolf rejuvenation in reindeer husbandry areas in Sweden?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-76	Madam President, I would like I mentioned the Värmland map earlier. The reason I did that is that it is a rather important and talking map, Madam President. On that map not much is covered by vargrevir. It doesn't make sense to have it that way. We must at some point get to grips with the wolf debate in this area. In order to manage the common wolf population more effectively, more measures need to be taken. We cannot do this, as we have done year after year after year. We need closer cooperation with Norway. This applies not only to research and inventory, but also to joint predator management. At the national level, the Swedish Parliament and Norway's Storing need to decide on the size of the Scandinavian wolf tribe. The problem of shared border territory then disappears. Decisions on licence hunting should be made in close dialogue between the relevant authorities on both Swedish and Norwegian sides, of course based on each country's right to self-determination. We also need deeper and systematic cooperation between the wildlife conservation delegations and the Norwegian predatory committees, which would strengthen local and regional influence on the issues of hunting and game conservation. The forms of hunting should be changed to make it more effective. I think the Minister has heard suggestions as to how it could be. There is a need for a clear regulatory letter that takes into account socio-economic considerations and avoids giving room for interpretation, which is what we are seeing today and which makes the debate as confused as it is. Last but not least, it is important for a new hunting and game conservation agency to come in and take over responsibility for these areas from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in connection with a fundamental reform. The situation is critical as last winter's inventories showed about 365 wolves in Sweden. In addition, a large number of puppies have been born, and the tribe should have passed over 400 wolves at this time. This will mean an increase to nearly 450 wolves next year with the extremely limited hunting. It's a little different from what it's been like in the past. Of these, only a total of 24 wolves are allowed to be hunted despite all reports of confirmed and suspected attacks. The Swedish Parliament decided in 2013 that Sweden should have 170 – 270 wolves to meet the requirements of the EU directive on favourable conservation status. The interval was based on the scientific analysis of the smallest viable population, MVP. I would like us to remember that. There are 100 wolves who are supposed to be MVP. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has allowed scientists to produce those figures. It has also been looked at in several areas. Although the Riksdag decided that the concentration of wolf would decrease, there are more vargrevir today than when the decision was made, especially in my county of Värmland, which is Sweden's most remote county. Failure to comply with Parliament's decisions in a reliable administration undermines confidence in Parliament's ability to deal with complex and controversial issues, such as predatory policy. This is a development that shows that the government does not take into account either the parliamentary decision or the people who live and work with the wolf's presence around the corner. Both wolf and other large predators need to be adapted to the countryside and not the other way around.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-83	Madam President, I would like The degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden needs to be increased. It is, of course, based on different factors. I am thinking now of the importance of food security in the event of crisis and war. If we are to increase food security in Sweden, there must be someone who provides domestic animals so that you can get meat. They're not all vegetarians. Madam President, I would like Wolves are good swimmers. In Stockholm County we have a lot of archipelago. The wolves easily enter the baits that are open to water. It calls for the sea and water to be closed down. We can't be supposed to put fences after the entire archipelago. Molstaberg, located 50 minutes from the Swedish Parliament, has had many wolf attacks both in pastures without predator-repellent fences and in pastures with predator-repellent fences. They came in anyway. When you have had repeated wolf attacks on your animals, come out into the pasture and met with a massacre of bloody animals, animals still alive but gasping because the trachea is damaged, when you have come out and had to kill a large part of your crew, it is serious. This needs to be taken seriously by the government. The minister said four wolves. Now, to say the least, we have more. Four wolves then may not require so many efforts, but over 400 require other efforts. Four wolves need to be afraid of, but over 400 wolves need many to be afraid of. This needs to be taken seriously by the government.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-87	Madam President, I would like Four wolves were the starting point. When the Riksdag made its decision on the reference value, it did so on the basis of a certain scientific evidence that did not take sufficient account of the inbreeding in the Swedish wolf tribe. That's the genetic problem with the fact that from the beginning there were far too few wolves that have propagated. This decision was not, first of all, a ceiling. That is quite the wrong interpretation. It was a decision on a reference value to be submitted to the EU on the basis of the Species and Habitats Directive, which should then be able to handle the Swedish predatory strain of wolves. It was also part of the bill that the Riksdag decided that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should look at this. The Environmental Protection Agency said: Okay, at least 270 wolves may be the reference value. But it wasn't a roof, it was a reference value. This figure was then criticised by the European Commission and by researchers quite broadly. Therefore, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given a new assignment to look at what is a really viable management of the tribe and what that reference value should be. If you weigh the inbreeding factor, you need to have an immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia that also reproduces in Sweden. That is precisely the mission of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. We still have an infringement case from the EU that does not believe that we have so far shown that we have sustainable management of our wolves. When it comes to the number of wolves in Sweden, 400 is the more official number, Sten Bergheden, even you are happy to mention completely different numbers. What about other comparable countries? Germany has more than 500 wolves. France has more than 500 wolves. Italy has more than 2,000 wolves. Romania and Poland have more than 2,500 wolves. Spain reports 2 000 – 3 000 wolves under the Species and Habitats Directive. Then you can say that the wolf is not endangered. But that's not how ecosystems work, that you can have a reservoir with a certain type of animal in any corner of the globe and say: Now it's good. The wolf is part of the Scandinavian ecosystems and our wild nature. That is why we also need wolves that are viable here. Then the wolf attacks have gone down very dramatically. If you look at the number of wolf attacks, they were around 90 in 2013, and now they are down to 40 in 2019. The government's efforts with game fences have also been effective, and we are now replacing the damage by 100 percent. It is very important that we should be able to have both wild nature and green industries. There's a balance. Sometimes there are very sad attacks on domestic animals, and that is why we also have a licence hunt. It is the county administrative boards that decide on the hunting of the wolf. It takes into account the inbreeding aspect but also the wolves that attack domesticity. There is a very large amount of work and money that the government gives for it to work. If we're going to stick to science, it's very important that we update ourselves.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-98	Madam President, I would like We can start there. There is more wolf in Europe, of course. You hunt wolves in Europe. It does not have a debate in the parliaments of Europe and is discussing whether to hunt wolf or not. They hunt wolves and protect cattle and settlements. It is no wonder that the number of wolf attacks is reduced if the number of animals is reduced by people giving up sheep farming, having cattle, lambs and other things in Värmland and the rest of the country. Then it is clear that the wolf has nothing to take there but that it attacks the wild animals in a completely different way. Then it also applies to the assessment when the County Administrative Board is out. If you don't judge it as a wolf attack, there's nothing in the statistics. Many testify that wolf attacks have been condemned and not accepted as a wolf attack. The Parliament made a clear decision on an interval of 170 – 270. That's what it says. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would return within the range. It came back with 270. Madam President, I would like It was this government that commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to continue moving on to 300 wolves. Now they have completely lost sight and have the wolf followed up to, as the minister himself says, close to 400 wolves. Madam President, I would like 400 wolves are much more than Parliament's decisions of 170 – 270 wolves. There's a lot to be done by the government. Madam President, I would like I'd like to get back to the Wildlife Department. We have given a mission to the government to transfer the hunting and game management to a new game agency. This mission came in 2015. We have not even seen the start of the work to establish the Wildlife Agency. Here the government has completely ignored the Riksdag again. We also have the issue of wolf regeneration in the reindeer husbandry area. Does the Minister accept that there is a wolf rejuvenation in the reindeer husbandry area?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-106	Madam President, I would like The government has taken several measures in this area during its term of office, as the Minister for the Environment has told us. But it does not help farmers who come out in the morning with their family and see their animals torn apart, bloody, suffering and — not too uncommonly — dead. It also does not help preschools in Värmland, for example, who are afraid to let the children out to play because there is a surrounding wolf next to the corner. It does not help with the measures taken by the government. The big question is that people's security should be put first. And here, Madam President, the government is failing when it has for years allowed the wolf tribe to grow far beyond the least viable tribe of the wolf individuals. There is an enormous range of wolves in some of our counties. A favourable conservation status figure of 170 wolves had been well above the range to preserve the favourable conservation status, unlike the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's figure, which now stands at 300 individuals. There are therefore 200 more wolves than had been said to be the least viable population. Madam President, I would like I have to say that I find it extremely sad to see a policy that so blatantly ignores those who are forced to live with the effects of it. This is a policy for Södermalmstockholm, not for Grums in Värmland. I find it extremely sad that you do not get out in the countryside and ask people who live there questions about how they experience the situation. I would like to advise the Minister for the Environment to travel around the country and have these reality reports presented to him.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-112	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that I am a dalkulla and have quite a lot of contact with people who live in areas where there is vargrevir. So I know that these problems exist. But if we look at the statistics – and we will do that anyway – we see that the number of wolf attacks has declined very strongly since 2019. Sten Bergheden says that it is because people end up with animals because of wolves. That's not true either, you see when you look at the statistics. The number of rams and ewes is relatively stable since 2010, and also the lambs. We need to find ways to manage the domestic animals and the predators together. I think the figures indicate that things are actually moving in the right direction. Viable population is not the same as favourable conservation status, Marléne Lund Kopparklint. These concepts must be kept separate. We can say that 4, 50 or 100 wolves are a viable population that may not be eradicated. But now it is a question of favourable conservation status, and then the genetic aspects are taken into account. Parliament has not made a decision that there is a roof. Sweden is a member of the European Union, and I hope that the Moderates will still stand up for this. Then we have joint commitments under the Species and Habitats Directive. We can't put a roof on the predators. The Alliance government tried but removed the roof. I can't. That's why we have to manage. We also have license hunting that is to take place and that is decided on in the county boards. As for what the county boards do, I have full confidence in their work.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-118	Madam President, I would like Eric Palmqvist has asked me how work is progressing on investigating what measures are appropriate to prevent Legionella infection from spreading from the cooling tower, when I consider that the investigation will be completed and if I will work towards a national register of open cooling towers being maintained in order to simplify future contamination detection. As I have previously stated, the cooling tower is regulated in the environmental code. Any activity that may cause damage or inconvenience to human health or the environment shall comply with the requirements of the environmental code. That's the foundation. This means that the operator shall acquire the knowledge and take the necessary measures to prevent, prevent and prevent damage and inconvenience to human health. In order to ensure that legionella bacteria do not thrive, it is therefore essential that operators have procedures to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Environmental Code. The cooling tower itself is not specifically defined under the Environmental Code and is not in itself a permit or notifiable environmentally hazardous activity, but may be part of an activity that is subject to authorisation or notification. Where a cooling tower is part of a process in an activity subject to a permit or notification obligation, the cooling tower is also subject to the notification or authorisation. As far as the proposal submitted by Stockholm Municipality to the Government is concerned, I note that the outcome of the consultation is mixed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency rejects the proposal and points out, among other things, that several of the large cooling towers are included as an integral part of already licensed activities and that registration obligations could lead to uncertainties. The Public Health Authority also points to a number of challenges with the proposal, and both authorities note that the consequences of the proposal are not sufficiently highlighted. Legionella infection is a disease subject to infection detection according to the Act on Disease Control. It is important that the detection of infectious diseases in the context of Legionella outbreaks has the necessary tools. In the framework of their supervision, municipalities are already able to identify possible sources of infection, such as cooling towers. I would also like to stress the importance of good cooperation between authorities. This very thing has produced good results in combating the spread of legionella in tap water. I follow the work of the authorities with interest and do not exclude the possibility of taking legislative action.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-124	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. To debate potential Legionella outbreaks during an ongoing global virus pandemic may not create headlines, but it is at least my hope that we in this House will be able to keep several thoughts in the air at the same time. There is a difference between viruses and bacteria, and there is a difference between legionella and covid-19. Although these differences exist, we can draw an important lesson from last year's Corona outbreak in today's debate. Madam President, I would like If we recall what it was like at the beginning of this pandemic, about a year ago, we know that major efforts were made on the part of society to detect the infection. It was something that quickly turned out to be more difficult than expected, and before we knew it, we had a general spread of infection. So, as far as I understand it, they stopped detecting the disease. Legionella doesn't spread the same way. Of course, there are cases where it is believed that it has been possible to detect the spread of infection from man to man, but it must be regarded as a curiosity in this debate. Legionella bacteria, which cause the so-called legionnaire disease – a kind of severe pneumonia – thrive best in humid environments at a temperature of 25 - 35 degrees Fahrenheit [25 - 35 ° C]. That is one of the reasons why we should not have lukewarm water in our fresh water pipes, but cold and warm. What could otherwise happen was experienced in 1991 at K4 in Arvidsjaur, where we had a Legionella outbreak. About 20 of my friends got sick just because they had lowered the hot water temperature to 40 degrees to save energy. Now, I promise you, I won't tire out the President and the Government with any more of my random memories. Instead, I will focus on the risks of Legionella infection from the cooling tower and what I consider to be examples of reasonable measures for society to be able to act quickly when the spread of infection is suspected to come from a cooling tower facility. Short: The cooling tower is a kind of plant that cools water by evaporation. The cooling tower is used in industry and has the advantage that it is a very energy-efficient technology compared to so-called dry cooling. The problem, if we are to call it that, is that the plants operate at a temperature of about 30 degrees, which also happens to be the temperature where legionella bacteria thrive and thrive at their best. If the growth of legionella bacteria occurs in such a plant and these are then spread in the water vapour or mist vented from the cooling tower, the infection can spread over large areas. Such outbreaks have occurred on several occasions both in Sweden and around us. Common to these outbreaks is that the infection has been hard to track and difficult to detect. Different countries have chosen to tackle the problem in different ways. Given that the National legislation related to legionella in the Swedish Public Health Authority states that, the role of the authorities is to supervise, guide operators and actively participate in investigations of cases and outbreaks, I wonder why the Government does not exude any further enthusiasm at least to make such facilities subject to notification with a view to significantly facilitating such investigations if the accident occurs.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-134	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Palmqvist for the question. I think it's very good that we can keep several thoughts in our heads at the same time. We now have a global pandemic, so it really is a time when we need to reflect on other types of disease outbreaks that we can prevent. I really want to say that is important in many contexts. Regarding the issue of cooling towers and legionella contamination, Stockholm Municipality has proposed to make cooling towers subject to the environmental code. The proposal has been out for a referral. We are still looking at the referrals, but we can see that there are serious doubts in several of the heavier referrals. The Public Health Agency sees many ambiguities and, above all, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency points out that this can create uncertainty in how to regulate licensed activities. Many of these cooling towers are part of already licensed activities, i.e. as part of a larger activity to be licensed. Then, as Eric Palmqvist says, operators already have a responsibility in all activities that can have a negative impact on human health or the environment. What further might be needed? Perhaps there may be a need for further supervisory guidance for the supervisory authorities or municipalities responsible, which are the most frequently responsible. There are now regular meetings between the Public Health Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency within the framework of the Supervisory and Regulation Council. There is legionella, and has been, a recurring question. It was last discussed in May 2020. Work is also ongoing at the Swedish Public Health Agency, and they have requested support from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Covid-19 has naturally made the issue perhaps a somewhat down-priority issue. But it is also important to point out that Stockholm and also Västra Götaland with today's tools have been able to take stock of the cooling tower. Environmental collaboration has been able to map where these cooling towers are in order to be able to have effective supervision in this area and of course also, from the perspective that Eric Palmqvist points out, in order to be able to more easily detect infection. I think it is important to continue to follow the issue and I am very pleased that the Swedish Public Health Authority and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have it up within the framework of the Supervisory and Regulation Council. We are also looking at how to make supervisory regulation. I do not think that the interpellier necessarily sees the proposal for authorisation testing under the environmental code as the only way to make it possible to inventory and have a better control on the cooling towers. It is also already part of the responsibility of local authorities and operators to ensure that this is controlled and does not endanger human health and the environment.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-141	Madam President, I would like The last Legionella outbreak caused by the cooling tower I know took place in Kista in 2017. There was a minor outbreak when only 8 people were infected, but in fact as many as 4 people died in that outbreak. Before that, the bacteria hit Lidköping in 2004 and Västerås in 1979. There is an interesting compilation from the Swedish Public Health Agency 2016 called Outbreaks and interesting cases that you can cave into if you are interested in it. I was going to mention here in this debate our western neighbour, Norway, and what happened there at the beginning of the 21st century. Norway was then hit by a couple of major legionella outbreaks, including in 2001 and 2005. In the latter outbreak, more than 50 people fell ill, of which 10 died. These outbreaks had the consequence that Norway went so far as to simply introduce a law that completely prohibits the use of open cooling towers. At the same time, other countries where major outbreaks have occurred have chosen a different path with tougher regulation or just a permit or notification obligation. And that is why we are here today, Madam President. I do not want us in Sweden to end up in a situation where hasty and drastic decisions are taken in response to an event that could have been mitigated if we had thought before. Madam President, I would like I am afraid that – if we do not act proactively, thoughtfully and cautiously – we can find ourselves in precisely such a situation where the public's demand to open the cooling tower is to be banned as a reaction to a new outbreak in Sweden, especially if such an outbreak fails to detect quickly and effectively control the infection. Such a ban would, in my opinion, be very unfortunate, as it would entail enormous costs for Swedish companies both in forced new investments and in increased energy costs. We must work together to avoid this. The City of Stockholm has, as the Government mentions and as is also mentioned in the interpellation, proposed that the cooling tower should be subject to notification under the applicable regulations. The issue has been addressed within the Government Office. Unfortunately, the outcome of the consultation is mixed, which opens the way for both refraining from going ahead with the issue and moving on with it and addressing the challenges identified by some consultation bodies. In any case, the claim that the consequences of the proposal are not sufficiently highlighted, against which the Government is leaning, does not seem to me to be reason enough to completely dismiss the idea of a simpler notification requirement for this type of facility. It is probably more a question of how solution-oriented one is in the work on the issue. Of course, supervisory guidance is very good, but it requires knowledge of the facilities. Now I do not know how many installations may not be included in already licensed activities, but it is a good thing if you know about these facilities. Therefore, I wonder if the Government sees no risk that an outbreak could put us in a situation where there is a call for a ban on opening the cooling tower instead, with the major negative consequences that would have for Swedish industry.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-148	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I should take a moment to say something about what legionella is so that those who listen to this debate know what it is about. It is a bacterial genus composed of several species, some of which can infect humans. It can cause severe pneumonia called legionnaire disease or a milder fever called pontiac fever. Legionella bacteria are common in soil and water bodies and can grow in different types of constructed water systems and are infected by the inhalation of small drops of water formed. Just as Eric Palmqvist said, this can be formed in ordinary tap water if you do not have enough temperature on it. Around 150 cases are reported each year in Sweden, of which around one third have been infected abroad. The treatment is antibiotics. Sometimes hospitalization is needed. Legionella bacteria are less dangerous to healthy people. People who are otherwise healthy may be affected, but it is mainly those who are a little older and those with compromised immune systems who get the most severely ill. So it is not that the risk of dying is imminent if you get this, but it is, of course, a dangerous infection that we need to avoid. I would also like to say that we have not dismissed this question. I thank the interpellant for bringing this issue to light, because of course we need to prevent future outbreaks of disease. The question is indeed topical to these discussions between our authorities, which are currently looking at how to make a much clearer guidance code that links to environmentally hazardous activities. Supervisory guidance may also consist of providing support, advice, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating supervisory work. It is gratifying that both Västra Götaland and Stockholm have seen that today's tools can take stock of the cooling tower and obtain the image needed to be able to exercise effective supervision in this area. It is also, of course, possible for municipalities and regions to share their experience with other municipalities and regions so that they really make sure that this is covered. The question is still on the table and not dismissed. We follow it very closely.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-157	Madam President, I would like I regret the fact that the government seems to be focusing on the fact that cooling towers are essentially covered by the permits already in force for licensed activities in accordance with the Environmental Code. How frequent it is with cooling towers that are not covered by such activities I do not know, but I guess there are not many. On the other hand, it can be assumed that in cases where the activity is not subject to authorisation, the incentives to operate the facilities adequately may also be lacking. Now I'm speculating, let me confess. I am certainly not a regulator – quite the contrary! I am usually one of those who, in debates in this House for the government, point out the importance of regulatory simplification and less hassle for business. In this context, however, I would like to emphasise that rules aimed at potentially saving people's lives are in fact justified. I am convinced that it would be possible to take more action than the government has taken in this area. I do not call for complicated and cost-driven licensing requirements, but rather for the government to initiate some form of simple national register of cooling tower facilities linked to some kind of simpler notification requirement for them. The simpler, the better, if only the information is available to the relevant authorities in the event of an accident and the detection of infectious diseases must take place. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish her well in her future work during my probably last debate with the outgoing Minister for the Environment and Climate and Deputy Prime Minister. Isabella Lövin and I do not always – almost never perhaps – share each other's views, but one thing we share, and that is the passion and commitment for what we believe in and believe is the right way for Sweden.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eric Palmqvist, for your good wishes! I wish the honourable Member every success in the work ahead for a better world. I would like to conclude by saying with regard to the cooling towers that I appreciate that Mr Palmqvist shares my view that it would be going too far to ban the cooling tower. They are much more energy efficient than the alternatives of having closed cooling towers or using biocides, i.e. different types of chemicals, to get sterile water. It could cause environmental problems of a different kind. It is important that we monitor and ensure that existing cooling towers are properly maintained and operated and that operators see that they have a duty under the Environmental Code to be sufficiently informed so that they understand their responsibility to maintain and prevent risks to human health and the environment. The issue is topical and is being discussed between our authorities. The government will continue to follow this issue. At the moment we have a pandemic that takes up much of the energy of our authorities, but at the same time it is important not only to look at what the crisis we have today means but also to look forward. This is one such issue that one absolutely needs to be aware of in view of the bad experiences that exist in Sweden and around the world.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-165	Madam President, I would like Linda Modig has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to restore Sweden's position as the EU's leading mining and mineral nation and, if so, what measures I intend to take. Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, wealth and mining of minerals and metals important for a green transition and ensuring a good and healthy environment, nationally and globally. Madam President, I would like Sweden will continue to be a leading country in the mineral industry in terms of sustainable development. The measures formulated within the mineral strategy from 2013 have been pursued by the government. Thereafter, the continued work has been conducted linked to the Government's Smart Industry Strategy, where the mining and minerals industry is included. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government also finances an investment in metals and minerals from secondary sources. There is an increasing need for metals for fossil-free energy technologies such as wind and solar energy, as well as for the transformation of the transport sector with charging infrastructure, batteries and electric cars. Innovation-critical metals and minerals are one of the priority areas of the Government's circular economy strategy and are necessary in the climate transition. Secondary extraction of metals and minerals is a growing alternative to primary mining. Primary materials shall be replaced as far as possible by resources used efficiently in circular flows. Sweden is actively involved in the work of the European Battalion Alliance, which works to secure the availability of raw materials for the production of sustainable battery cells. Madam President, I would like Last autumn, the Commission published a Communication on critical raw materials setting out ten measures to ensure the availability of sustainably produced raw materials and an updated list of critical metals and minerals. The government will continue to support the development of sustainable value chains from raw materials to input or end products, as proposed in the Commission's so-called raw materials communication and already existing work. In such work, Sweden's mining and mineral industry and the mining cluster as a whole are key players. T reliable and comprehensive value chains, which include exploration and a significant increase in recycling, play a central role, are a prerequisite for the EU to achieve the objectives of the EU Industrial Strategy and the European Green Paper. This will enable us to succeed in the digital and green transition and to maintain Europe's future industrial competitiveness and innovation capacity.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-171	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. I am pleased that the government has completed the measures within the Swedish mineral strategy and since then built on and refined the strategy in Smart Industry. I and the Minister for Economic Affairs also fully agree on the needs analysis regarding the importance of Swedish and European supply capacity in terms of important raw materials such as minerals and metals – some are innovation critical, and others are important for other reasons to enable us to make the transition to a fossil-free society. However, with regard to the Minister for Economic Affairs' statement that primary materials should be replaced as far as possible by recycled materials, I would like to emphasise that recycling will not be able to replace, within a transparent period of time, the mining and processing of virgin material to such an extent that it will be superfluous. Let us therefore state clearly that our supply of raw materials and climate change depend entirely on us breaking and processing minerals as primary materials. Unfortunately, Madam President, there are some key issues missing from the reply of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The Minister for Industry does not answer the question where these minerals and metals will come from. One question for the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore: Where should Sweden and the EU's needs for minerals and metals be met? Is Sweden, which, apart from mining waste, accommodates rare earth metals in the bedrock, helping us to develop efficient wind turbines and cope with increased demand for rechargeable batteries when the vehicle fleet is to be changed? I do not want to hear from a Socialist Minister that the answer to that question is that someone else should solve this, because it is an extremely important issue of solidarity and morals. It is not morally responsible, in my view and in the view of the Center Party, that one of the world's most developed and wealthy countries, with perhaps the world's most stringent environmental testing of mining activities, should shrug its shoulders and seem to be indifferent to the fact that these earth metals are broken in an authoritarian and undemocratic regime such as China, which is committing systematic abuse of its population to produce habit, or of child workers in Congo who are exploited by cynical warlords to extract cobalt.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-175	In the Ministry of Economic Affairs' reply, the government's own responsibility in the trial chain is also reflected in its absence. The Minister for Industry carefully avoids discussing the elephant in the room: his and the government's role in the examination of processing concessions, his and the government's meekness in dealing with this category of case. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he is proud of and satisfied with the pace of the procedure he performs. Is the pace of handling these cases such that the government sets an example? Does the government send the right signals with this tempo to other actors in the trial process? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Enterprise and Industry! There's not just an elephant in the room. It says two. There are some wasp waists or bottlenecks in the trial process. The first elephant I've mentioned by name. It is responsible to the Riksdag. That is why I have called the Minister for Economic Affairs here today to answer for this. The second elephant in the room is the County Administrative Board of Norrbotten County. Given that most of the exploration and mining activities take place in my constituency of Norrbotten and Västerbotten, these county boards handle matters according to the environmental code and the mineral law. Of these, the County Administrative Board of Norrbotten is the single most important player in the trial process. The government's newly appointed County Governor, Lotta Finstorp, has started well. She has established that it is in Norrbotten that it happens. Madam President, I would like I said it in my maiden speech in the Swedish Parliament almost two years ago, and I say it again: It is in Norrbotten that it happens. LKAB has recently presented a multi-billion-dollar investment of 10–20 billion to develop fossil-free iron ore pellets. It is a fantastic initiative, which is jeopardised by the county administration's management.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-179	Madam President, I would like It is Parliament's privilege and task to review the government. One tool is just to ask simple questions or, for that matter, interpellations. It happens continuously, and that's how it should be. That has been the case in the past, and that will continue to be the case. When the questions come, we try to answer them. I would ask you to read again the question that Linda Modig has asked and which I tried to answer. She wondered whether the government intends to restore Sweden's position as the EU's leading mining and mineral nation and, if so, what measures I intend to take. On the question, Madam President, it is that Sweden would not be the EU's leading mining nation. I would say that we are, and we will continue to be. What am I basing it on? I'm basing it on reality, Linda Modig. The reality is that in Sweden today 91% of all iron ore is produced in the European Union. Sweden today produces 38 1⁄2 percent of all lead, 36.7 percent of all zinc, 23% of all gold, 20% of all silver and almost 11% of all copper. Yes, a lot is done in Norrbotten, but I also think that Västerbotten contributes a lot. I would just like to add that, as a former resident in Västerbotten. Madam President, I would like Linda Modig, of course, has a point. I believe that we should do our utmost to replace as much virgin material as can only be done through recycling and the circular economy. I think we agree on this in essence. But no, I do not think either – I share that view – that we will be able to achieve everything in the foreseeable future. It is both about what we are using today and about what we are using in the future. Looking forward, we see a large-scale electrification of our societies. It is clear that the demand for much of this will then increase. Then we need greatly improved recycling in a circular flow, but of course we will also use more virgin material. We don't have to attribute opinions to each other that we basically know aren't true, Linda Modig. I know Linda Modig for a long time. It is a competent and skilled representative of Norrbotten and the Center Party. I know she can argue for her cause without ascribing to me opinions that she knows I don't have. It is clear that I think that we should increase our own livelihood as far as possible from a European perspective. I think so for many reasons. It's strategic, of course. But we also know, because we are constantly getting reports on it, the conditions and conditions for some of this extraction in, for example, countries such as Congo. It's child labor, polluted rivers, and more. We agree on this. Although Sweden climbed in the latest global ranking in 2019, we also agree that we have reason to review our legislation and regulations, not in the sense of reducing the requirements for doing things in a good, clean and fair way, but to increase the predictability of the legislation and its application. There, the government has already taken some steps, and I see it in front of me to be able to present some more of them. Then we can make sure that Sweden is not only a leader today, but also forward – not only in a European perspective, but in terms of sustainable mining, perhaps even in a global perspective.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, I share the long-term ambitions, but if we are to achieve this fine world of ideas, we must take action on the ground that makes a difference. And as I said: A big bottleneck in the trial process is unfortunately the County Administrative Board in Norrbotten. It would be fantastic if LKAB were to succeed in this outstanding project. It is the largest Swedish industrial investment ever, with annual investments of between SEK 10 and 20 billion over 20 years, and it is based on a commercial assessment of the future market. By offering carbon-free products, LKAB would more than double its sales by 2045, while at the same time providing the world market with the carbon-free iron that is necessary when the world economy is changing and tomorrow's railways, wind turbines, electric cars and industrial machinery will be produced. Madam President, I would like LKAB's own operations today cause 4 per cent of the total emissions from the industry in Sweden. According to LKAB's CEO, in order for a conversion and, in particular, the production of iron sponges to be possible, the permit processes must be four times faster – four times faster. I doubt that the Minister for Economic Affairs understands how serious the situation is in the trial process and what a huge challenge LKAB's initiative poses, because if the Minister for Economic Affairs were aware of how bad it is, it would be incomprehensible that the Government does not take any further action to remedy the shortcomings, which I have already described as a system collapse a little over a year ago. I have my picture clear to me: It's serious now. Something needs to be done before it is too late, and that is why we need to focus on the measures that we need to take to speed up the licensing processes. The trial process has been stalled, Madam President. It's stopped. Cases of appeals and referrals for processing concessions lie with the Government year after year. No mine on virgin land has started in Sweden since 2012. On the mire outside Kaunisvaara in the municipality of Pajala – the municipality where I grew up – Northland Resources started a iron ore mine. In the summer of 2018, the new owner Kaunis Iron was able to re-launch a functioning coffee money mining business due to the bankruptcy. Today, more than 500 people work directly and indirectly in that mine. However, despite the fact that the company one year later, on 1 July 2019, has applied to the Land and Environment Court in Umeå for a new operating permit, the case to date has not even been announced. Thus, even the first step in the handling of the case has not been taken in a year and a half. The explanation for the timing is that the County Administrative Board of Norrbotten has not been able to give an opinion on the application for more than six months now. Then one might wonder whether it is only the county administrative board that has the responsibility to give an opinion on this. Of course not. All national expert authorities such as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Kammarkollegiet, SGU and MSB have expressed their views within the given deadlines, while the County Administrative Board has received another deadline for deferment to this day. We'll see if the County Administrative Board can do it today. What measures is the government prepared to take in order to achieve a functioning mining trial at the County Administrative Board in Norrbotten? I have exercised that we may have to concentrate this activity on a county administrative board that can do this, namely the one in Västerbotten. My question to the Government is: how far is the government prepared to go to get a spin on this? When the pandemic restrictions are over, Madam President, I invite the Minister for Enterprise to Tornedalen, Malmfälten and Norrbotten. Come and stand with me in the Toredal Myllan! Let's go to the bog in Tapuli and see what reality looks like!
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-198	Madam President, I would like I think we fully agree on the importance of the Swedish mining industry, not only for Norrbotten but for our entire country. As I said, Sweden is also in a European perspective a leading mining nation and has the potential to strengthen that position, not least when it comes to showing the way in changing to a sustainable way of doing this and getting rid of emissions both directly in the business and indirectly. This applies to both LKAB and Boliden, for example. This is something that I think we have every reason to both support and be proud of. I also believe that it will indirectly contribute to the export of the products that other companies working with within the mining cluster can produce and deliver to other parts of the world as well. So there is great potential here. Madam President, I would like I understand and understand that this is a critical review of the government in opposition, but I also believe that it is important to be honest. Of course, things have happened since we discussed this a year ago. Let me take some examples of this particular area. Last summer, the government asked a lawman to look through the environmental code just to see how we can help our companies, widely in the industry, who want to reset to be able to get rid of the emissions we are talking about, 4 percent of Linda Courage talked about in the LKAB case. How can we simplify that process and make it more predictable and yet have high ambitions? We do not want to be a country that destroys the environment or, for that matter, tramples on people's fundamental rights. In addition, I recently presented a coordinator who will help the companies that today have these ambitions: a senior person, Peter Larsson, who is both a member of the Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences and also senior advisor at Sweden's Engineers, a person with great confidence and great experience of helping in the complicated processes that Linda Modig talks about. The idea is that he will help in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. That work has a lot to do with the challenges that we have, not just with regard to individual authorities. These companies face many challenges both in terms of processes and the supply of skills. The truth is that the development in Norrbotten and Västerbotten today is so fantastic that one of the major problems is the supply of skills. The lowest unemployment we have right now in the country is in Norrbotten and Västerbotten, which is a completely different picture than the one that existed when Linda Modig and I were students at Umeå University 25 years ago. It's a fantastic development. We shall strengthen it, and it is against that background that we are taking these measures. In addition, we also need to look at the whole of the legislation, the whole mineral law. I would have liked it to have been there already, but as Linda Modig knows very well, over the past year we have also collaborated on many of the measures that have been about curbing the effects of the pandemic. A great deal of time and energy has gone into this, but I can see that, as soon as possible, such an investigation is also being carried out. Linda Modig refers to an individual county administrative board; I cannot go into it, especially because it is not within my remit, Madam President. As regards the way in which the processes themselves are carried out, we fully agree that we need to increase predictability, and it is also my ambition to take further action there.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-208	Madam President, I would like It is great that action is taken in the long term. It is good that we have an environmental review. It is extremely welcome and much-needed, not only for the mining industry, but for all the activities that demand land and where there are competing Markian claims. In this autumn's budget, we have invested SEK 58 million in environmental testing and inspections in the January agreement. We have done so because we have heard that the county boards have identified a lack of resources as a reason. Madam President, the Minister for Enterprise and Industry. I have to say that, as an elected representative, I am becoming disillusioned with what we can do. Since the Norrbotten County Management has complained about and stated that a lack of resources would explain the extremely slow processing, I have asked what this means for them, and now the problem is not the resources. They do not think it is a reinforcement, but they think it is a restoration. Now the problem is what the Minister for Economic Affairs addresses, namely the supply of skills. The fact that the government has had to appoint a special coordinator, I think, calls for reflection. The fact that we need a coordinator says something about the capacity of the regional authorities responsible for coordinating the development of the county. I fully agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that it is an excellent person. I think the person will be very important, so I do not intend to criticise him. But I find it interesting that this is the case. Madam President, I would like If we are to be able to assert Swedish mining industry in international competition, we must take decisive action. If LKAB's courageous effort to take the lead globally for the conversion to fossil-free iron ore pellets and to make steel not out of coal but with iron sponges succeed, all these huge investments must be locked up. This will require a faster pace of processing. Obviously, more money is not enough for the county administrative boards, nor for the Land and Environment Court in Umeå. Now we need action and decision-making. We deserve better!
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-214	Madam President, I would like We're living in the middle of a pandemic with all that means. In addition, we also know that there is a climate crisis in progress, the effects of which, if we do not manage it, will be insurmountable for humans, animals and nature. Against this background, it is extremely gratifying to see that the Swedish industry, not least in northern Sweden, is making great efforts to show that it is possible to produce goods and products that we will need far into the future and do so in a way that does not destroy the climate and the environment. It is against this background that we have set up the investigation. Now there is so much and so much investment. We have both mentioned LKAB, which I had the privilege of presenting, but we are also talking about Northvolt, which is establishing Europe's largest and cleanest battery factory in Skellefteå. We are talking about Hybrid, that is, the production of steel without the aid of coal. In addition, I can say that I meet investors who are interested in investing billions of SEK in northern Sweden in the near future, with the conditions that exist there, to also become part of the conversion industry. That in itself, Madam President, gives great hope for the future in the midst of the dark times in which we find ourselves. However, the challenges for authorities in terms of skills provision are increasing. It is against this background that the government has appointed the investigator, and it is against that background that I not only make visits – I have and will continue to do – but I myself have a lot of focus on the issue. This is not just a matter for Norrbotten, Västerbotten and Sweden, but I think what we are doing right now will help to show that climate change is possible and that it will lead to more jobs and economic growth that we will have great joy of for a long time to come. Thank you for the interpellation, and thank you for today, Madam President.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-218	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to proceed with the proposal for a tax on plastic articles, although at the time of implementation Sweden is still in a pandemic situation. He has also asked me if I intend to take any steps to change the proposal after the consultation round. The substantive political agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals states that a tax or fee should be imposed on disposable items. Against this background, the Government set up an investigation, which in August submitted its proposals in the report Tax on disposables. The report of the inquiry has been referred. The period of referral expired on 30 December 2020. As I have previously announced, the report – and referrals received – is now being prepared in the usual order within the Ministry of Finance.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-220	Madam President, I would like It could not have escaped anyone what pitch black darkness the Swedish tourism industry has been in for almost a year. It is partly because of the generally changing movement patterns we see in the pandemic tracks, and partly because of the government's restrictions. Today, the company of restaurants and bars is limited to four people, and alcohol – the product with the highest profit margin – is not allowed to be sold after 20 o'clock. Otherwise viable companies, who have had the habit of saving in the barns, have had to take down the sign in the wake of the restrictions because the financial support measures have been too late and too cheap and recurrently stuck in the bureaucracy of the Social Democrats rather than being paid out. The restrictions have, of course, not come into place to put sticks in the way of a single industry, but to limit the spread of the disease. At the same time, the cynical could claim that the restrictions are at least partly aimed at the government wanting to show momentum, that is to say, they are actually to some extent symbolic measures – not least given that it has been difficult on a regular basis to find evidence that there is an uncontrolled spread of infection in the affected environments. Symbol politics, however, is, as is well known, the government's parade branch. Therefore, it may not surprise anyone that during the burning crisis in the restaurant industry, the government chooses to continue with the implementation of the criticised excise duty on disposable plastic articles. If the proposal that has now been referred were to become a reality, it would mean that Thai boxes, take away coffee mugs, plastic plates and more are subject to excise duties in the range of 3 – 7 SEK. In addition to being another symbolic tax without any noticeable improvement for the environment, the tax appears to be deeply flawed in the light of the current pandemic. Madam President, I would like At a time when the restaurant industry is on its knees and doing its utmost to reset it by offering take away in all its forms, ranging from classic take away lunch to food bags that consumers prepare at home, these excise duties would be an additional kick to those already in place. When conscious citizens try to follow various recommendations and restrictions by drinking coffee on a walk instead of in a coffee shop or by eating restaurant food at home instead of in a restaurant, then they will suddenly be taxed on a spot. In addition to the risk of affecting the already heavily affected industry, it is undeniably strange when the government repeatedly claims to want to reduce the spread of infection. Why have the Minister for Finance and the Government in the first place chosen to investigate this issue and sent the inquiry proposal for a referral?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-228	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson wonders if it has been possible for anyone to escape what pitch darkness the Swedish tourism industry is in. It is clearly a party that it has completely escaped, namely the Swedish Democrats, who want to double the restaurant and hotel VAT now in the midst of the ongoing pandemic. So when we see how tough the restaurant business is, we want to double the VAT. The timing could hardly be worse. Tobias Andersson talks about symbolic politics. Then we can recall that the Swedish Democrats were the party that wanted to close the Swedish schools this spring, which was done in many other countries. But there they have realized that it was not so effective, and so other countries have their schools open during the second wave of infection. The government has taken a wide range of measures to limit the spread of infection and to support businesses, healthcare and other parts of society through the crisis. At the same time, we are working in parallel with measures that we will have to go forward with after the crisis. There we have said that we will carry out a green tax shift during the term of office. Precisely how it should be designed, of course, we will be discussing. There are several suggestions that are now being consulted. Consultation response is now being prepared in the Government Office, and then we will come back to exactly what the green tax exchange should look like.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-231	Madam President, I would like I note that the Finance Minister initially completely changed the focus and subject of the interpellation debate. With regard to the restaurant VAT, the reduction that has been made has been condemned. I am convinced that Magdalena Andersson himself has belonged to the group who at some point had problems with it. Having said that, I think that a politician should be able to be self-critical. I note that the timing of our autumn budget exercise was anything but perfect. It would have been nice if the Minister of Finance had been able to do the same, that is to say realise that the one-off tax on plastic articles that she and the government choose to move forward with is anything but optimal. I understand, however, that the Minister for Finance needs to take note of the comments received before she can put her foot down definitively. That is why, Madam President, I think we can go through some of these together. The trade association that is primarily at risk of the proposal, Visita, rejects the introduction of the proposed tax. In his referral, he stressed, among other things, the following: The tax does not support a shift towards a more resource-efficient and bio-based circular economy. The tax does not lead to a reduction in litter. 中 The tax leads to increased food waste. It also points out that there are major shortcomings in the basis of the proposal on taxation. Among other things, it is said that there are no specified alternatives to taxed articles, so the tax becomes only fiscal. In addition, there are significant shortcomings in the impact assessment. The Swedish Trade Union Party rejects the proposal even though it repeatedly states that it shares the objective of the tax. This is because it is considered that the study's tax proposals are not an effective instrument for achieving the stated objectives and that the tax risks leading to negative effects on employment. The Swedish Plastic Industry Association rejects the proposal and says that it is of the opinion that the report of the one-off article inquiry is not in line with our view on how negative environmental effects of one-off articles can be avoided, and we therefore believe that the report should be drawn up in a different way. In addition, the Industry Regulatory Board rejects the proposal and states that, according to NNR, it is entirely wrong in the current Corona crisis to further increase company regulatory costs – directly and indirectly – and rather to stop this type of increased costs in order to make it easier for the business community to recover. The Tax Agency states that it considers that the design of the tax with a high level of taxation in relation to a low value of goods can lead to tax evasion. The Swedish Tax Agency also considers that the proposal has an unclear impact on the environment and resource efficiency. ..................................................... The innovation and chemical industries in Sweden, the food companies, Sweden's bakers & conditors, Max, Panini Internazionale and others also disagree with the proposal, as they feel that it is not appropriate – something that, in my opinion, is beyond reasonable doubt. In the light of this broad criticism by the referral bodies, I would like to ask the Finance Minister whether she can at least consider abandoning this proposal.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-245	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is very good if Tobias Andersson now backs off from the fact that it was right that the Swedish Democrats wanted to double the restaurant VAT at the turn of the year. The last time I heard their party leader Jimmie Åkesson speak on this issue, however, it was with a very long defence of this as exactly the right measure, so it will be interesting to follow the internal debate of the Swedish Democrats on this issue. If you no longer have this funding in your budget motion, it will also be interesting to hear which of the expenditure increases the Swedish Democrats are proposing that you would like to remove. This treasure, like all other taxes, has been out for a referral. When the referees come in, of course, we look at them at the Ministry of Finance. That's why you have suggestions out for a referral. Once we have gone through them, we will also look at how to carry out the whole green tax shift. If, how and when we move forward is not yet decided but is now being prepared in the Government Office, so there is nothing more to say about this right now. However, I think it is worth remembering one thing when we talk about the green tax exchange. I get a lot of questions in Parliament about the taxes that are being raised as part of the green tax exchange but not as many about the taxes that are being reduced. Sweden's inhabitants got a tax cut now at the turn of the year as part of the green tax exchange, so we also reduce taxes as part of this.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-248	Madam President, I would like I dared to reveal an ounce of self-criticism, because I think that politicians should be able to discuss positions and have internal and external debates on things. It is clear that the Minister for Finance is of a different opinion. The commitments made by the government and the Minister for Finance are intended to print, hack into stone and stand firm indefinitely. I think it is an unhealthy attitude. Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister for Finance cannot explain in detail how the Government intends to proceed with this headless proposal. I also understand that the proposal fits into the January agreement. But there must also be room for politicians to refrain from carrying out commitments when they prove to be harmful and in no way desirable. Anything else would be tying politicians to their worst proposals on the basis of some obscure principle that we are flawless. Politicians are not flawless. The Social Democrats are certainly not flawless, as much of their history clearly points out. I therefore believe that it would be a good idea for the Minister of Finance to be able at least to criticise the proposal, its timing and its form. When a large number of referrals on various points are put down to the proposal, it says that it will not have the desired effect and that there are no alternative products to go to and judge it from different points of view, it would be nice if the minister responsible could at least to a small extent problematise the same. In all intents and purposes, I would ask the Minister for Finance to consider scrapping the proposal. Redo and do the right thing!
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-253	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to debate when one's counter-debater says that one has established something that one has, on the contrary, replied that one has not established. I've said that if, how and when we move forward with such a proposal-- if, how and when we move forward--it's not yet decided. Then it is difficult to say that I stand firm and refuse to listen to referrals. On the contrary, that's exactly what we're doing now-- we're sitting at the Ministry of Finance analyzing the referrals. This makes it difficult, I think, to debate appropriately in this House. Tobias Andersson says he has revealed an ounce of self-criticism. Yes, it may be appropriate to suggest that one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic should receive double VAT. That, if we talk timing, is hard to beat.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-257	Madam President, I would like Anne Oskarsson has asked me how I view the socio-economic effects of the clothing tax, specifically those of a socio-economic nature and those of an impact on gender equality, and whether I take any action within my area of responsibility in the government. Removing dangerous chemicals from our everyday lives is a high priority for the government, both for health and for the environment. According to the January agreement, a strong green tax shift will be implemented with increased environmental taxes being exchanged for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. There will also be a tax on dangerous chemicals in clothing and shoes. The government commissioned a special investigator to analyse and make suggestions on how a tax on harmful chemicals in clothing and shoes could be designed. The aim of the tax would be to reduce the presence or risk of exposure to and the spread of substances harmful to the environment and health from clothing and footwear in a cost-effective manner. The report of the study contains a standard impact assessment assessing the socio-economic impact, including the impact on individuals. The report estimates that the tax will lead to significant environmental and health benefits. The study estimates that the proposal for an average consumer would entail additional costs of SEK 100 per year. As women buy more clothes on average than men, a slightly larger proportion of the tax burden is expected to be on women, but at the same time a larger share of health benefits is expected to be passed on to women. It may be added that on the income side, the green tax shift has meant tax cuts for income earners. As I have announced several times before, referrals are currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-263	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of his reply, the Minister for Finance says that removing dangerous chemicals from our everyday lives is a high priority for the government, both for health and for the environment. ..................................................... The existence and presence of dangerous chemicals in a large number of commodities has been known for a long time. I myself gave lectures on this in the 70's. The companies I worked in were vigilant, and there were also European collaborations. It is difficult to understand why nothing has been done before. Why have limit values not been lowered? Why have products that are harmful to health not been banned? The textile industry has also known this for a long time, so 90% of all textiles and footwear sold in the country do not contain harmful chemicals. Should not all companies that have eliminated harmful chemicals be rewarded? Why is this measure being taken now? Why not take a holistic approach? This applies to clothes and shoes– why are other textiles not included, such as curtains, sheets and fabrics on furniture? Some of the nanoparticles found in the sea come from clothing. This is because clothing is produced from synthetic materials, such as pet bottles. A study from Lund University shows that plastic articles in the water can get stuck in fish brains and cause brain damage that is likely to lead to disturbed behaviour. Nevertheless, the problem has not been addressed. Why tax all clothes and shoes, which entails large administrative costs and costs for testing? All companies that sell clothes should be taxed in order to get back 95% against evidence. Why not 100%? A product that is bought in Sweden would be taxed, but if I take the same product from the USA I do not have the tax, says Tullverket. Why do we want to distort competition and give Sweden, which is a small, export-dependent country, disadvantages? Madam President, I would like to ask the following question: why cannot EU REACH legislation be waited for so that dangerous chemicals can be regulated for all countries at the same time?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-271	Madam President, I would like As I said in my reply, we have had an investigation that has looked at this tax and made a proposal. The proposal has now been submitted to a wide range of consultation bodies. The reason why we have a consultation procedure is partly because it is a requirement under the Constitution that the government prepares matters and, of course, that we want to hear what the various consultation bodies have for their views on the proposal. It is good that we have received many comments, and we are now looking at them at the Ministry of Finance to see what there are objections and views on the proposal, or proposals for a better design of such a tax. When the government is done with this work, we will be able to return to the Riksdag with how we view the clothing tax. Anne Oskarsson's idea of taxing sheets, towels and other textiles is of course a proposal that I can take with me to the Ministry of Finance to see if it would be a possible extension of any kind of tax on textiles. As far as the EU's REACH is concerned, there is always a balance to be struck between the environment and the environment. Some substances are so dangerous that they should be completely banned, while other substances should be regulated. Sometimes it also governs the environment and climate with taxation. It is a question of assessing, for each dangerous substance or discharge, which measure or mix of measures is most effective.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. According to the study, the extra cost per person due to the tax would be an average of SEK 100, i.e. two kilos of clothing per year. It is likely to cost families with children much more. An investigation from Swedbank shows that clothing for a child under one year costs SEK 870 in one year. For children between four and ten years, the cost is SEK 950 per year. So it is considerably more than the 100 crowns. There can be a big difference between the tax as a percentage of goods. For a product for SEK 150 that weighs one kilogram, the tax will be SEK 50, that is 25 percent. For a product of SEK 2 000 that weighs one kilo, the tax will be 2.5 percent, thus negligible. It can be assumed that parents of young children can not always afford to buy overalls for SEK 2,000 but may choose cheaper alternatives, which means that the tax as a percentage of the cost of the product will be higher. To make products cheaper, you can start to work with thinner materials, which in turn leads to faster consumption. This, in turn, does not benefit a circular economy. It is of course better that a product can be used more times. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the following questions: why is a tax introduced in a format that challenges those who already have it barely, a socio-economically weak group? Why is the tax calculated on the number of kilos? Are we not trying to close financial gaps?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-278	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that this tax has not yet been introduced or decided. It has been consulted, and we are currently at the Ministry of Finance preparing these matters. I think it is important to start from the facts when we debate in this House. If this kind of tax were to be introduced on the other side, there would also be the green exchange of taxes, of which the tax would be a part. Then there is also a tax reduction. The study has calculated that it would cost SEK 100 per person per year – we can say that it is three or four times more for a family with children, that is, SEK 400 per year. A person with an income of SEK 250 000 a year, i.e. a monthly salary of just under 20,000, will then receive a tax reduction of SEK 1,376 a year with the green tax exchange. If you live in assisted areas A or B, i.e. north and in sparsely populated parts of the country, you get a tax reduction of 3 000 SEK per year – only so that things can be put in context.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is expected that many small businesses will disappear as they will not be able to bear the burden of administration and testing. This means that 700 people, according to the investigation, or 900 persons, according to the Swedish Trade Federation, mainly women, lose their jobs when sales within Sweden of clothing and shoes are assumed to decrease by 1 percent when the tax is introduced. But the chances of getting a new job in the industry are judged by the investigation to be good for those whose employment ends. How can the chances be good when sales decrease? For which age group are the good ones? Couldn't it be much more difficult especially for older women? As women buy more clothes on average than men, a larger part, not a larger part, as the answer says, of the tax burden, is expected to be on women. At the same time, a greater share of health benefits is expected for women. This sounds cynical. Men don't wear clothes and shoes? Women have 76% of men's income. Why should they be explicitly harmed by job losses and by buying more clothes? Madam President, I would like I therefore ask this question: in what way does the Minister think that the clothing tax contributes to greater equality? Or is there no relevance to gender equality here? Otherwise, is it not really the government's objective to achieve greater equality between the sexes?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-284	Madam President, I would like I would guess that the reason why the investigation suggests that women are more exposed to dangerous chemicals is that women buy more clothes, perhaps more often change clothes and often wear new clothes. As a result, they are more exposed to dangerous chemicals. However, the development we are now seeing in the clothing industry is about increased reuse. We see that ordinary stores more and more sell their own garments that have been used and then sold again. This is a very positive development. We also see that there are more and more secondhand shops of different kinds. It is something that is good for the environment and that can also benefit women's health. The government has a very active gender equality agenda. During my time as Finance Minister, I have been working on what we call gender budgeting, i.e. that the idea of gender equality is brought along all the time while the various proposals are being worked out. It is something that I myself am passionate about and think is important. Gender equality is a way of creating a better society for both women and men, and it is also good for the economy. I think it is nice that Anne Oskarsson from the Swedish Democrats is addressing this. But I was worried when I heard Jimmie Åkesson say this week that he would rather see Trump than Joe Biden as president, because he is so interested in Trumps's right-wing conservative politics. There is one thing that is clear: Trump has not been good for equality or for women in the United States.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-288	Madam President, I would like David Lång has asked me what measures I intend to take to restore order in the census. Since this government took office, we have made a change of course to create order and order in the population records. It requires urgent work and the right conditions for the responsible authorities. Part of creating the right conditions is about clear signals to the population that everyone should be registered where it lives. Therefore, it has been particularly important to reintroduce the civil record crime, which was removed by the Alliance Government. In addition, the Government has implemented a number of other measures aimed at improving the quality of population records. The Swedish Tax Agency has received increased funding and more tools to detect, investigate and correct more errors in public records. The authority now has the possibility to de-register false identities from the population register and to make visits to check a person's residence. The Government has also strengthened the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to combat crimes related to the use of false or manipulated acts. We have done this by, among other things, extending the Swedish Tax Agency's law enforcement activities to include investigations into illegal use of identity, forgery of records and false certification in cases where the act relates to data or documents in the case of the Swedish Tax Agency. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency has improved the conditions for an effective and effective exchange of information between, among other things, civil and law enforcement activities. The Ministry of Finance has also referred a memorandum proposing, among other things, an obligation for all authorities to inform the Swedish Tax Agency if it can be assumed that an information in the population register is incorrect or incomplete. The case is now being prepared within the Government Office. In addition, the Government has appointed a government inquiry that will report on measures to reduce errors in population records by 1 April 2021. To conclude, I would also like to mention that the government decided in the previous year on two missions to counter misreporting. The government's message is clear: There should be order and order in the census.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. As most people know, the population accounts are intended to meet society's needs for basic data on the population of Sweden. The registers are intended to show where in the country a person should be taxed, and where the person has the right to vote, and they also serve as a basis for payments from the welfare system and as a basis for community planning. The Swedish National Audit Office published an audit report in 2017, where it was found that one of the problems with population accounts is reduced incentives to report correct data to the Swedish Tax Agency, partly due to problems in the housing market. Other reasons for inaccuracies in the population register are movements to and from Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that there is a lack of knowledge about the extent of the errors in population accounts, although the Government has requested the Swedish Tax Agency to make an assessment of the quality of the population accounts. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion is that the Swedish Tax Agency's quality work is not carried out effectively. The Swedish Tax Agency has estimated that about 200 000 people are wrongly registered in Sweden, but it is also admitted that the actual number can be much higher than that. No one knows for sure. We have seen examples of how incorrect population records are used for welfare fraud and for illegal migrants who are not entitled to stay in Sweden to stay away. We have seen examples of people suddenly getting an inmate who only signed up for someone else's address without their knowledge. It is perceived as extremely unpleasant for the sufferer, and it may also have negative practical consequences in some cases, such as the absence of various kinds of contributions. There are examples that dozens and sometimes hundreds of people are registered at the same address. It is common for a person who receives a grant to wrongly state Sweden as his address but lives abroad without the authorities' knowledge. In the light of the answer I received, it may at first glance seem encouraging that the government's aim is to ensure that there is order and order in the population records. Unfortunately, however, Sweden has been pursuing a policy for too long which means that we lose at least as much at the other end. The uncontrolled mass immigration has led to large numbers of people being in Sweden illegally. No one knows who they are, no one knows where they are and no one knows what they are doing. The government's policy has been based on statements that are not walled by my Europe, which has resulted in problems that we did not see coming.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-301	Madam President, I would like Maybe I should start with a little clarification. You are registered in Sweden if you live in Sweden, which means that you are here permanently. If you are here for a short period, you can get a coordination number. If you find yourself illegally in Sweden, you are not registered. As I said in my reply, the government has been working for a long time since we took office to address this problem. We need order and order in the population register because it is the basis for a great many other authorities' decisions. These include, for example, the payment of various forms of insurance and assistance. In order to reduce the error of payments, it is essential that there is a correct register of people. That is why we have worked to strengthen both the legal tools that the Swedish Tax Agency has – to reintroduce the civil record crime has been important – and the tools that the Swedish Tax Agency has internally. We have also looked at, and will hopefully proceed with, proposals for better exchange of information also between the authorities. In addition, we have also increased the resources to the Swedish Tax Agency to work more actively with the population register. It's 45 million for last year. This year there will be 43 million, and then there will be a permanent increase in appropriations. I fully share the view that it is a problem that the census is not quite correct and that we need to take further steps to strengthen it. Thus, during these years we have worked to improve the work. We have also referred a proposal which we are now preparing in the Government Office. In addition, the major public accounting inquiry will make proposals during the year. That investigation is taking a bigger grip on the population records. One of the things they look at is the fact that people write in places where they don't live. This is something that creates great concern among the families – for example the elderly – who are suddenly told that another person is written at their address. It creates a great deal of anxiety in the individual. It is good that this is one of the issues that the investigation is looking at.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-306	Madam President, I would like The thing about people who are illegally in Sweden is perhaps a question of definition. But there are those who are in Sweden under certain conditions, such as the thousands of Afghan men who do not have asylum reasons but who are still allowed to stay in Sweden on condition that they complete upper secondary education and then get a job. But for them to complete their schooling, they must be written somewhere, and if there is no housing, they will be illegally written where they do not really live. Then it can be defined as actually being here illegally. They don't have anywhere to live, because there's no housing. Under the surface there is a widespread abuse of transfer systems and subsidies. The lack of control also facilitates shady activities in general, which can indirectly pave the way for more serious crime. There are gaps in the system, which are exploited by criminal networks, leading not only to abuse of the transfer systems but also to people who are not entitled to be in the country, by definition, or who have entered illegally commit crimes or are used as a undeclared labour force. The point I want to make is that it has been opened up to a new branch of organised crime selling addresses to foreigners. Among other things, as I said, the High School Act has contributed to this. Add to this the government's new migration policy, which means that the government wants to introduce a broader humanitarian protection base, which means that anyone who has lived in Sweden for a long time with temporary residence permits and had a special connection to the country, as it is said, can stay even if the asylum grounds have ceased. This provides the opportunity for more so-called unaccompanied minors to stay in Sweden, and more illegal migrants will eventually have the possibility of a residence permit. Here, too, it is opened up to abuse and exploitation of the system through incorrect censuses, not least because of the housing situation. If this will improve or worsen the situation in the population register, one might ask. Judging by the rhetoric of the various parties regarding population records and how the problems are affected by an irresponsible migration policy, there is a qualified majority in the Riksdag to solve the problems. The Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats say that they want to solve the problems, and these parties have 72 percent of the parliamentary mandates. Perhaps the Liberals will join in due course; it remains to be seen. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats choose to stick to cooperation with the Green Party, which has 16 mandates, and it will then decide the fate of the country on this issue. According to Magdalena Andersson's answer, the government seems to focus on those people who are wrongly registered. But with regard to the new organised crime involving the sale of incorrect housing addresses, what measures does the government intend to take to deal with it, until, hopefully, the problems are resolved at some point in the future?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-314	Madam President, I would like The government's work is, of course, partly about us having proper civil records, and we have worked hard on this in recent years and will continue to do so. We have done short-term things, and we also work long-term and have added additional resources to do so. In addition, the government is working very actively against organised crime and has taken a wide range of measures. This is not my responsibility, but of course we cooperate in the government. Expenditure in this area has increased considerably in recent years due to the large expansion of the judiciary. We have doubled the number of places in police training, including by building two new police colleges, and are now graduating new police officers from police colleges in Borås and Malmö. We're going to have 10,000 more police employees. In addition, we will of course extend the rest of the judiciary with courts and other things. After all, the prison service has been cramped because the sentences have been extended and more criminals have been arrested. We also have a 34-point programme of measures to combat organised crime. Here, too, the government is actively working to address the problems of organised crime, including the sale of addresses.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-318	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have put forward in the Committee on Taxation a proposal for a new census. A census is needed where the main focus is on extensive internal immigration control and the recording of biometric data for non-citizens in Sweden and that authorities work together to make physical checks of areas where errors may be suspected. The problems we have experienced and are experiencing now are largely the result of the work of the Social Democrats working with the Green Party. The Social Democrats say, and Magdalena Andersson has said this today, that they want order. But in action they let the chaos continue because they accept the environmental party's dilution of the problem through the irresponsible migration policy. I believe that it is not enough to deal with the problems of population records; they must be resolved. It is not enough to deal with the mass influx of economic migrants; this must be stopped. It does not seem to be enough to deal with the Green Party in the government either, but they must leave the government. Madam President, I would like Is not the conclusion of the debate that the Social Democrats are trying to please everyone by saying one thing and at the same time doing another?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-322	Madam President, I would like I think that the problem will be missed if we believe that a new migration legislation would solve all the problems of inaccuracies in population records. Incorrectly registered persons occur in different groups. It is not uncommon for young people and students, for example, to be misbooked. There may be points with a census, but when it comes to population censuses, the estimate is that about 2 per cent of the Swedish population is wrongly registered. From a population accounting point of view, our assessment is because it is more effective to focus on the 2% that are incorrectly registered and ensure that they are not the ones than to go round and knock on the doors of the 98% that are correctly registered to see if they really are the ones who live there. There is a risk that people are not at home or hiding in a closet or something else. It would be a very extensive piece of work that would cost a great deal of taxpayers' money.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-325	Madam President, I would like Katja Nyberg has asked me what the government's balance is when it is assessed that public transport, shopping centres and the like are allowed to remain open as usual while essential police training is cancelled. She has also asked me whether, through the work of the government, I have become aware of or given directives to pause, terminate or postpone training within the law enforcement authorities and whether, like a previous committee initiative to the Justice Committee, I intend to start investigating a ban on participation in criminal organisations. The pandemic that has affected Sweden means that everyone, individuals as well as organisations, authorities and employers, needs to take their responsibility to reduce the spread of infection by following current advice and recommendations. Avoiding crowds and crowds is essential to slow down the virus's progress. This means that many important activities in society have had to be paused and that many people have had to refrain from things they planned. We know that the virus thrives and spreads in environments where people gather. In order to reduce the spread of infection, many training courses in the country have therefore been cancelled, postponed or carried out on a distance basis. This also applies to law enforcement authorities. Our law enforcement powers have a difficult and complex mission that often requires tough priorities between different tasks. Safeguarding the health of employees is a prerequisite for the authorities to be able to fulfil their objectives. I have full confidence that the Police Authority will make the necessary priorities during the ongoing spread of infection. I also assume that other parts of society follow the advice and recommendations of the Public Health Agency during the pandemic. Despite the pandemic, the government is now carrying out the most comprehensive initiative against gang crime ever in Sweden, through the 34-point programme and the historic expansion of the Police Authority. By 2024, the goal is for the Police Authority to have 10,000 more employees than in 2016. According to the Authority's forecasts, the target will be achieved. Just recently, 600 new police officers made their first day at work after graduation from police training. Next year they will be followed up by an additional 1,400 newly trained police officers. This means a reinforcement of up to 2 000 police officers over the next year. Through the initiative, we attack crime from several quarters at the same time. However, criminalising participation in or association with criminal networks would require a lot of investigative resources for a meagre result in finding gaps in criminal law. Moreover, in the case of participation in criminal networks, this is a constitutional amendment that would take a very long time to implement. Instead, what we need to prioritise is effective and accurate action against the criminal networks that make a difference. The government's starting point is that this should primarily be done within the current framework of the Constitution. We're just doing this. Step by step, we continue to tighten up and change the legislation, and our actions are hitting the criminal networks hard. Here, for example, I can mention the legislation on arms and explosives which entered into force on 1 December 2020. A general starting point for the changes is that the penalties for possession and smuggling of illegal weapons and explosives should hit criminal networks particularly hard. Thus, despite the great pressures the pandemic has put on our society, the government continues to work tirelessly to improve the conditions for law enforcement authorities to carry out their missions.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your reply from the Minister for Home Affairs. The social problems that were the focus a year ago are of a different nature to what we are focusing on today. The threat that was in focus then threatens society on a deeper level than the pandemic does. If organised crime is allowed to continue in the same spirit, if innocent people continue to be killed accidentally by bullets from gang criminals, if less than one in five of these cold-blooded murderers are convicted of the crimes they commit, if people who have made their way to Sweden from other countries year after year are supported by others and if school students in vulnerable areas get a worse start in life than other children get for growing up in an alien area, it is far worse than the consequences of the pandemic will be. It is understandable that the main focus today is on the pandemic and its consequences, especially given the number of misassessments that Sweden has made in the management of the covid infection. However, even if today's situation may seem unreal, the pandemic will go off and instead be replaced by investigations and accountability for wrong decisions. For years we will be discussing and trying to understand how one of the world's most well-organized countries could operate so badly when it really happened. The pandemic has in no way put organised crime on hold, but it seems rather that it has become an extra boost for criminals. The gang criminals have not laid down their weapons; on the contrary, 2020 seems to be the worst year ever in terms of shootings. It is a pandemic that has affected all of us, apart from the criminals, who are ravaging worse than usual. The fact that important training courses are then put on ice rather than finding alternative routes is questionable. Madam President, I would like With the growing and greater impact of organised crime, we must break this trend by not making it attractive to be a criminal. If you can live good off being a criminal, why take a regular job? According to a Sifo survey conducted in autumn 2019, a majority of the Swedish people believe that integration is not working well. Politicians are held accountable and are not believed to have enough solutions to deal with integration and crime. Madam President, I would like Today, Sweden's population consists of almost 20 per cent born abroad, and a large proportion of these immigrants have not established themselves on the labour market, which meant that Sweden in 2018 had the biggest employment gap between domestic and foreign born in Europe. The unemployment rate in 2018 was 3.8 per cent among natives and 15.4 per cent among foreign-borns. In 2018, 772,000 people of working age supported themselves throughout the year on benefits and social security benefits, equivalent to 13.3 per cent of the total labour force. And this was long before the pandemic. In some areas it is so bad that young people choose to become professionals rather than even think about taking a job. Today we have a group of individuals who will never enter the world of work and thus end up in lifelong exclusion. We need to ensure that as many people as possible become self-sufficient, and they certainly will not be through a criminal lifestyle. It is not enough to focus on the number of police officers, raise penalties and more. We also need to make it harder and less attractive to become a criminal. To then put vital police training on hold, when it should be a priority for the government to further train the judiciary – even during a pandemic, is incomprehensible to me. Should the Minister of the Interior not have a greater interest in vital training courses being carried out? In addition, there are today numerous digital solutions and training courses. If primary and secondary schools are able to have distance education, the Police College should also be able to do so. Has the Minister of the Interior talked to the Police Authority and checked that they really have enough resources to carry out these training courses? This is very important in order to combat organised crime.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-344	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Government for its answer. I am interfering in this debate for the very reason that the activities of the police are very close to my heart. It is important to bring more police officers into external service, and then it is unfortunate that the training is put in a position to wait. We have discussed several times, the Government and I, the importance of getting officials on the road to carrying out checks and thus limiting the space of criminals in our society. Of course, we need to reduce the spread of infection in society – we agree on that. Each of us has a responsibility to do this. After all, however, there are activities in the country that do not pause. You simply do not care about the pandemic, and you do not care about the restrictions that exist in society as a whole, but let your activities go on as usual. By 2021, apart from the coronan and all that it means, has started badly. We have had several shootings already, and yesterday we were told that the young woman who was shot last Saturday died. If I haven't missed anything, there are three dead so far in shootings, and then January is not over. Then there are several injured. It is unclear how serious, but there are three who have died because of shootings, at least what I know. The criminal activity is in full swing out there. Then it will be unfortunate to slow down and pause police training. It is extremely important that we get more police officers on the outside. It should reasonably be possible to pass the training and protect the pupils so that the infection does not increase. You can do it in other parts of society, and you should reasonably do it at the Police College as well. We need to get more cops out on the way. The fact that this is now slowing down means that there are fewer police officers who can be considered for further training to traffic police. That is extremely unfortunate. We will discuss criminality on the roads, among other things, in a little while. But I feel that it gets very crazy when you don't make sure that the education goes on.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-351	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an important interpellation, although I am becoming somewhat more perplexed about what the interpellation is really about because we have not cancelled police training around Sweden. What the interpellant mentioned was that some further training and training of police officers were cancelled during the pandemic. The assessment has been made that it is not appropriate to gather this type of training within the organisation in order to further educate the existing police officers. On the other hand, police training continues around Sweden at the five universities. More education has become digital. But you're examining. Last week a number of people from the police training courses around Sweden became police aspirants. That part of the education does not stand still. It's a socially important business. Our ambition to make it 10 000 more employees by 2024 is solid. Police forecasts suggest that this goal should be achieved. There's still a tough job ahead of us. But it's important. I note that in June the first police students from the two newly opened police training courses in Borås and Malmö will graduate. This shows that this has been a priority for the government. We have more than doubled the number of people entering police training. But more will have to be done. The police department is now running a new recruitment system that seems very successful. You get more people to be admitted to police training than before a number of semesters ahead. It looks at the possibilities of developing distance learning. This is of great importance for the possibility of recruiting police officers throughout the country, including in sparsely populated areas. If this is what the interpellation is about, I think it is a misunderstanding, because this police training is being carried out and is going on. The question was whether the government ordered the Police Authority to give up some training. No, we don't. We can't do that either. It is authorities that make decisions about their activities, and it should be that way. It was said by the interpeller that one is unacceptable to the priorities and can question them. I have great confidence that the police authorities are setting the right priorities. It is about when it is appropriate to bring people together, which training courses can be carried out digitally and which training courses are not suitable for being carried out digitally. It is certainly not the case that all the training courses of the Political Authority are suitable for being carried out digitally. This could be a matter of confidentiality. It may be the modus operandi of the criminals, and that is what we do not want to spread in a wider circle. That is why there are higher safety requirements. Some further training is therefore desired in physical form, but it is chosen to do so later because of the pandemic. I have great confidence that the Police Authority makes correct assessments and makes reasonable assessments based on the situation we have with the spread of infection in order to ultimately also protect their staff and their employees. It is their security that is at stake when it comes to the Authority taking these issues seriously. Finally, I would like to warn you a little bit too early that it will cool off and that the spread of infection will decrease. We still have a time ahead of us to hold on and endure on the restrictions, recommendations and limitations that exist. Everyone – individuals, organisations and authorities – must take their responsibility to ensure that the spread of infection is kept down in Sweden.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-359	Madam President, I would like It is true that this is not about the whole police training, but about individual training courses to get to the serious organised crime. Most of these courses have been cancelled. I wonder if the Minister for Home Affairs has even had a dialogue with the Police Authority on this. Since we have the problems that we have in today's society, it is important that these educations can continue in some form. Then perhaps it is possible to implement them digitally. The government says that we have never invested so much in Swedish police. I'm sure that's true. But if 42 per cent of the Swedish police are thinking about changing jobs, what difference does it make if new police officers come when so many experienced and older colleagues are still thinking about changing jobs? Then wages and working hours are still too bad. Serious gang crime has become worse and worse in recent years. The shootings have become commonplace in many places. In the last four years alone, 174 people have been killed at 1,300 shootings. Law enforcement authorities have difficulties in maintaining law and order. Criminal gangs often have links to vulnerable areas, which means that insecurity is also much greater in these areas than elsewhere. The violent capital of criminal gangs also helps to intimidate witnesses. Violence affects innocent victims many times. Against this background, there needs to be a broader criminalisation that meets those actively involved in or otherwise associated with criminal gangs. If the police are then given the opportunity to enter and break participation in criminal organisations, it will not be as attractive to join such an organisation. These individuals do it for status and money. They will never be self-sufficient. They will continue to live a criminal life and at best be locked up in a prison long enough to stop wanting to come back to their old way of life. But then they will probably live on subsidies. Madam President, I would like The Home Secretary said in a debate on gang crime that it had to be investigated, which is true. However, such an investigation is lacking. Through a committee initiative from the Swedish Democrats, the government parties voted against. Since a constitutional amendment is needed to get this law in place, it is therefore of the utmost importance that this is investigated as soon as possible. It would be appropriate now that the government is still investigating bans on racist organisations and has investigated bans on association with and participation in terrorist organisations. Morgan Johansson has said in the past that there are too many gaps that need to be found to address this. But that is something that is both necessary and should have been done a long time ago. I do not want to reduce the severity of the pandemic in any way. But we have now heard about this 34-point programme for a year and a half, and we have not yet seen a change for the better – rather the opposite. The number of shootings, the number of deaths and the number of blasts have increased. When can we expect to see a result of this 34-point programme that the Minister for Home Affairs has described as the most powerful and massive programme against gang crime that has ever been presented in Sweden?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-370	Madam President, I would like Let us stick to the traffic police, because this is about further training of police activities. It is often the case that policemen have worked for a number of years in the regular operations when they go to the traffic police. There we have the effect that more and more people go home. Fewer and fewer people are out on the road and able to take action against the criminals. We must not forget that the road is one of the most important logistics functions of criminal networks. Everything they do happens along the way – their own transport, the transport of weapons, explosives and so on. These things are put into regular freight transport, because they have a grip on logistics flows in the transport industry in Sweden. There is no powerful police activity here. The number of traffic police is falling, and there are no training courses. The police have brought in a number of car inspectors, but it will take a long time before they are ready to fly, so to speak. It is said that it takes five years before you are really at the bite when it comes to standing on the road and doing controls – stopping vehicles and solving the whole task – in addition to the training you have previously had. It is extremely unfortunate that such trainings should be paused. Then we will not get to the point where we can really put a lot of pressure on the criminal networks. The Government cannot go in and point with the whole hand in the Authority, but it is always possible to conduct a dialogue between the Government and an authority and express wishes on how this should be handled. The criminals have not paused. They don't care about the restrictions, they run on as usual. Unfortunately, we've seen that's exactly what they're doing.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-376	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is important to train police officers and to train police officers specifically. I believe that this is part of the professionalisation of the police profession and a way of increasing the power both on the road and against serious criminals. I therefore believe that these training courses are important and central. However, I also have great confidence that the Police Authority itself can strike the balance when it is reasonable and appropriate to have training during the current pandemic and when to postpone them – for security reasons or for reasons of confidentiality, because it is not appropriate to carry out certain training courses digitally. I therefore have full confidence that the Police Authority can strike a balance in this. I also hope and believe that now, with vaccinations and the reduced spread of infection we see, we will come in the future where we can lift the restrictions and thus carry out several of the training courses that are important for the Police Authority. When it comes to the growth of the police, it is indeed the case that we are making substantial investments in the Police Authority. This year alone, the Politigheten's budget will increase by SEK 1.9 billion in order for it to continue to grow as an organisation. Now there are more policemen in all police regions; by 2020 there were more police officers in all police regions. You have a big stick to make up for, because you trained too few cops for a long time. That's why the number of cops went down, but you're starting to make up for that now. There is a major expansion, and I think there are several thousand people in police training today who will be able to take up employment in the Police Authority every six months ahead. It is incredibly important that we reach the target of 10 000 more employees by 2024. In fact, we have not filled all the places in police training, although there have been record numbers who have applied. How, then, is it that we are still meeting the forecast to cope with growth? That's precisely because fewer people leave the police department. Year by year fewer people choose to quit, other than for pension reasons, and we also see that more people choose to return to the profession. There were many who left behind the reorganisation, and I think we are now in favour of a quarter being re-recruited. That is what the Police Department is working very consistently on, and that is what makes us, according to forecasts, still seem to be reaching the target of 10,000 more to 2024. That will continue that expansion. With regard to legislation and penalties, it is right that the Parliament rejected such a request. There was no majority to make that announcement, and that may be because it is a constitutional change that takes many years. I'm not sure the gang criminals today are particularly afraid that we're setting up an investigation. On the other hand, on 1 December last year, new legislation was introduced on arms and explosives, which imposes considerable penalties on the very acts of crime. It is also punishment directed directly at gang criminals who use either bombs or weapons in their criminal activities. We have a major investigation, the so-called gang investigation led by Anders Perklev, which will propose a series of criminal measures regarding crimes in criminal networks. The investigation comes with its proposals during the first half of this year. It looks at more stringent penalties for crimes in criminal networks, particularly in connection with criminal settlements, and more stringent penalties against drug sales, as well as more stringent penalties for those involving young people in these networking activities and in crime. So there we will have proposals that here and now tighten the penalties for these networks, and that is what we are aiming for in the 34-point programme – to tighten the penalties here and now, so that it becomes felt and very unprofitable to be a criminal in Sweden.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-382	Madam President, I would like Even though there is a marginal reduction in the number of police officers who stop, the fact remains that 42 per cent of the Swedish police force have thoughts about changing jobs. These are the figures you actually need to start looking at and thinking about where it will end up, because it is not enough just to fill it up. No, gang criminals will probably not be afraid today because the government is setting up an investigation to investigate whether it can be criminalised to be part of the criminal organisations. On the other hand, there is no tendency to reduce gang crime, so it is clear that this must happen. We cannot constantly look at the present alone, but we must look ahead as well. Criminalising participation in criminal organisations is a very effective way of removing criminal individuals from the street, because such criminalisation means that one can condemn entire networks to responsibility instead of only linking individuals to specific, already criminalised acts. The rules of participation we have today call for a person to be linked to a specific act, but by criminalising the participants in criminal organisations, we are able to access the participation and association of criminal organisations themselves rather than just the individual crime. Then we will have a much better and more effective capacitation effect, because we will then have the opportunity to get an entire network off the street instead of just one individual. It is also a very effective way to remove the leaders of these organisations, as they usually do not participate in criminal acts themselves but use people – usually younger ones – in their networks to carry out the actions. I wonder: Is the Minister of the Interior prepared to introduce a ban on participation in and association with criminal gangs, and is he prepared to give the current constitutional investigation a mandate to review the freedom of association in this regard too?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-387	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can only say that many fewer people are thinking of leaving the police profession today than just a few years ago. It says something about the efforts that are being made but also about the attractiveness that is growing in the police profession. We can only look at the average salary of the individual police officers, which has increased by SEK 5,000 in recent years. It says something about the increasing attractiveness when fewer choose to leave the profession and more choose to return. In addition, we have a record number of people who want to apply for police training. I also believe that this is linked to the major efforts we are making on both penalties and new tools for the police, as well as to the consistent preventive efforts to break the new recruitment and strangle the money for these gangs. You feel that society for the first time in a very long time actually takes in and will push this back. I have great expectations, and I notice that the efforts made by the Police Authority around Sweden have an effect. Several networks in the Stockholm region have recently been knocked out, and it will continue to do so with the new tools available – for example, secret data reading, which is a very powerful tool for accessing even encrypted communication. I am absolutely convinced that the police authorities are now moving forward their positions and putting more and more people in custody and in prison. I am convinced that it will continue and that we will thereby reduce the progress of criminals in Sweden. That is why we are investing so much in the police, and we will continue to do so. I look forward to making more effective efforts that actually give the police new tools here and now and not just focus on things that can happen very many years in the future.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-391	Madam President, I would like Katja Nyberg has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration what he and the Government intend to do to further combat sexual crimes against children on the Internet. She also wonders if criminal provocation in order to access sexual crimes against children is a tool that the government could possibly use. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The government takes sex crimes very seriously, especially sexual crimes against children. Several measures have been taken to improve the chances of combating this type of crime, and new initiatives are being taken on an ongoing basis. The government's work specifically against internet-related crime and internet-related sexual crimes against children is carried out on several fronts. We are working on judicial reviews, improved international cooperation and measures to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement authorities to combat this crime. S exual criminal investigation one from 2020 reviews the principles that should apply to criminal liability for sexual offences at a distance and the exploitation of children for sexual posing and analyses relevant criminal provisions should be amended. The investigation shall also review the scale of penalties for sexual offences and propose any changes that may be necessary to adequately reflect the seriousness of the offences. The investigation shall report its conclusions to the Government by 31 May 2021. At the same time, the Government is reviewing how international cooperation can be strengthened. In December, we submitted a bill to Parliament proposing Swedish access to the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime. This will give Sweden increased opportunities to investigate and help other countries investigate crimes of this kind. Various initiatives are also being discussed within the EU to further facilitate the collection of electronic evidence and to identify and remove sexual abuse material. The Government has also taken a number of national measures to facilitate the collection of electronic evidence. A new secret coercion – secret data reading – has been introduced, and we have ensured that new rules on data storage have been introduced. Recently, we also set up an investigation in order to give law enforcement authorities increased opportunities to use secret coercive measures. In addition, the Seizure Investigation has been tasked with adapting the provisions on seizures and searches to modern technology. The reinforcement of the Police Authority is proceeding according to plan, and we are halfway towards the target of 10,000 more employees in 2024. The Government has commissioned the Police Authority to ensure that the right skills are available in the activities to combat cybercrime. In the Political Authority's and the Prosecution Authority's regulation letter for 2021, we request special reporting of the development and work on internet-related sexual offences against children. On the issue of criminal provocation, I note that in some cases law enforcement authorities have been using what is commonly called provocative measures for a long time. Its use takes into account the limitations resulting, inter alia, from the form of government and the European Convention. The Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor's Office have developed guidelines and legal memorandums on the subject. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the government will continue its stubborn efforts to combat sexual crimes, not least against children and on the Internet.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-400	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. Sexual crimes are at a historically high level. Registrations in Stockholm have tripled since 2017. This is something that, according to the police, continues to increase and which has certainly worsened with the pandemic. Common to these crimes is, on the one hand, that they are shady and inaccessible, and, on the other hand, that they cause great suffering to individual victims. Of the crimes reported, few encounter a consequence, and much indicates that the number of the darkness is large. In order for an perpetrator to be arrested and convicted today, it is necessary for children to be subjected to terrible abuse. The best crimes are those that never happen. It is high time to change the rules of the game so that more offenders are caught and so that fewer children are subjected to sexual offences, whether online or not, and whether it concerns child pornography offences or other sexual offences. We must be better at finding, prosecuting and punishing those who subject others to this. Madam President, I would like An effective police service requires competent staff, a well-structured organisation and leadership that inspires trust. But it also requires police officers to have the necessary powers to maintain law and order. The police's national operational department has produced a report showing that all police regions lack both staff and training for sex offences on the Internet. Adding resources to the Police Authority, prosecutors and the other judiciary is something that all parties agree on, but it is also a matter of acting on that basis. It is not good enough to just say that it will be better, that we need more police officers and more tools and that we have never invested so much in Swedish police as we do today. It's not enough with fair words and press conferences, and at the end of the day it's the outcome of what the government claims to achieve that's what's important. Unfortunately, I cannot really take it seriously when I hear repeatedly that we have never previously invested so much in Swedish police when the fact remains that 42 percent of the Swedish police are thinking about changing jobs. In the end, it doesn't matter if it's filled with cops unless the cops stay. Then we will return to wages and working hours. The Minister of the Interior mentioned earlier that the police have generally received SEK 5 000 more in salary. However, it is an average; we must also look at the median. Wages are still too bad. Madam President, I would like The shift of a large proportion of crime from the analogue to the digital world poses challenges in several stages of the justice chain, from discovery to prosecution. The digital arena is more difficult to patrol and control, which makes the detection of crime more difficult. It is therefore of the utmost importance to strengthen the Swedish police even more and to get more tools in the fight against sexual crimes. Crime provocation would be the most powerful tool for more children never to have to risk being subjected to these heinous crimes and for more perpetrators to face legal consequences. Crime provocation is also an effective tool for preventing crime. If offenders searching for children online know that the police are using criminal provocation, it can deter the perpetrators from committing crimes. And if perpetrators still intend to commit sex crimes online, is it better that there is a police officer on the other side than that a child risks being destroyed for the rest of his life?
i-MYPsXFunedFCHMG31NRnsN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katja Nyberg, for an important interpellation! This is one of the most disgusting criminal activities we have internationally. We also see that this type of crime has gained new arenas and conditions with digital technology. This means that the victims of crime are spreading horrendously throughout the world. The arena when you share these terrible abuses means that there will be abuse several times over – not only when the abuse takes place but also when it is then spread or used by these pedophiles or whatever it may be. There is an arena globally – with the internet – that makes this a growing phenomenon internationally and in Sweden. It is important that the frequency of registration is increased and that we have more children who dare to tell us about this disgrace, which could mean being subjected to this. The most successful examples we have of having really judged people, not least in Sweden, have often been that an adult or parent has sounded the alarm to the police. From there it has been possible to pick it up, and thus the perpetrators of these types of crimes have been convicted. That's why we've tightened our penalties for several rounds. That's why the investigation is now looking at sharp penalties. That's why we look not least at how to secure evidence in digital environments – that's what you have to have in order to convict people. It is also about the international exchange, not least with the large, global platforms. That they secure evidence and can share it in the future is incredibly important also for Swedish law enforcement. Many of the platforms used are not located in Sweden, but this requires international cooperation. This is an area where Sweden participates in Europol cooperation and where Europe has a very important role to play. We can pool resources and have even more impact from our joint efforts. I welcome the fact that Noah is making a report that points to some critical points. I think Noah should. The whole idea of the new police department is to examine whether we have sufficient competence in important areas and how to build it over time. Rather, I see it as a sign that the police authorities take these issues seriously when pointing out shortcomings that need to be addressed. If this report had not been produced, no one would have cared about the lack of competence that exists in many places in the police organisation linked to this. Basically, I agree with very much of the problem picture around this. I would like to point out, however, that the police are allowed to look at the Internet. You have to work to identify the perpetrators. The police are today allowed to use so-called provocative measures to track down offenders on the Internet. It is the seriousness of crime that determines when you have to do what; there is a stairway for going in with this kind of provocative action. When it comes to child pornography, it is of course very serious crimes, and then the police have more opportunities to do so than in some other crimes. Perhaps the last thing I want to say here is a side discussion. Fewer people want to leave the police profession today than a few years ago. We see that fewer are leaving the police, and we see that more are being re-recruited. The starting salary, which may be an important measure, was SEK 21,300 in 2014; in November 2020 it was 27,100. So it had increased by $5,800. It says something about the Police Authority working very actively with the attractiveness of the profession so that more people will want to become police and that more will stay and be police as we expand the police as forcefully as we do.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-418	Madam President, I would like It is welcome that the government is taking a number of measures in the fight against sexual crimes. These measures are often, I have to say, driven through the opposition. Unfortunately, however, it is not enough; we need additional tools to access the Internet-based crime against children. There are various organisations that have claimed to be children and have since been contacted by men on the internet for sexual purposes. These organisations find and identify those who subject children to such practices. But if the police were to do the same, the perpetrator would go free, and if the police were to take any action to somehow try to get the person caught, the police would risk even being judged for involvement in crime. Then it's hard to move on with the whole thing. Approximately 10 percent of those convicted of child sexual abuse relapse into crime, and if one of the perpetrators has exposed several children, or children they do not know, the risk of relapse is even higher. In the autumn of 2018, the Swedish police started a work to investigate how people convicted of online sex offences against children could be watched after they had been released. However, current legislation currently limits the police's ability to follow previously convicted sex offenders to see if they reconnect with children, so we also have a problem there. In the United States, criminal provocation is permitted. On 19 October 2018, 21-year-old Alexander Barter was arrested in Texas, thanks to criminal provocation, after sending out an ad in which he wanted to meet a person he could murder and rape. After the murder, the idea was that he would have intercourse with the body and later eat it. Of course, the advertisement made the police interested in the person. A policeman contacted Barter and claimed to be a father willing to offer him his underage daughter. He agreed to meet. Barter, equipped with plastic bags and knife, then went to the designated location to meet up the father and then take his victim to a distant place. On the spot, however, he met police officers who could arrest him. Because the police were able to use crime provocation, Barter was able to be stopped. There was also enough evidence to convict him of the terrible crime he had planned to commit. In the United States, the police have used this method for many years to prevent terrible tragedies, but in Sweden this possibility is still lacking. This kind of crime is hard to detect. Why does the government not want to give the police the tools they need to work effectively against this type of crime?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-426	Madam President, I would like I initially presented a wide range of measures, both punitive measures and new tools for the police, in order to tackle, not least, internet-related crime and terrible sexual crimes. European cooperation, which has really been expanded over the last few years, means that we have completely different and more vigorous efforts today. We also have deeper cooperation than before with some of the private platforms that are sometimes used here. I believe that our police capabilities are really developing now. It is not easy to understand what the interpellier is saying, because there is no general prohibition of provocative measures that can contribute to someone committing a crime. However, there are guidelines for when and how to use them. Today, the police are allowed to use provocative measures to track offenders on the Internet, but it is the circumstances of the individual case that should govern. It is a balancing process that is needed in the implementation of such measures. There is no ban on the use of provocative measures, but they must be adapted to the criminal activity being pursued, and methods must be found that work. Yes, these are important questions. We cooperate with other countries but also with the organisations mentioned. It is incredibly effective that the police cooperate with others in order to prosecute and convict internationally, for much of this crime is unfortunately not only Swedish but cross borders and requires international cooperation. We have a deeper and deeper cooperation. And as I told you, this is one of the areas where we have changed the regulations very much. We have tightened the penalties and given the police and prosecutors clear instructions that they will come back with how they develop their activities. We have high expectations that this is a priority area for the police and that they will come back with further measures and actions in the future that will lead to more people being convicted of this type of very serious crime.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-431	Madam President, I would like The idea is not that the police should provoke a will to commit a crime but only provide the potential perpetrator with the opportunity or opportunity to commit a crime. These people continue and are there. Even if they do not commit such crimes, there is a likelihood that they will. This is to find them and get to them, and that's the difference. Then it is better for the police to be there than for a young girl or boy to be exposed to such a person. Of course, there must be some substance in the suspicion in order to be able to use crime provocation. One requirement could be that the person is predisposed to commit such a crime because the will exists. For example, it may be through previous convictions, tips from secure sources or other obvious circumstances such as a grown man making contact with a minor girl on the internet. I find it unacceptable that we cannot allow the police to use criminal provocation in this way. There are times when this can be done, for example in the case of drug offences and possession of drugs. Then you can almost provoke a sale of drugs. At such times it is possible to use criminal provocation, but at such times it is not possible. It should therefore be reasonable to look at the possibility of extending the police's possibilities for criminal provocation.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-434	Madam President, I would like I think this is an issue that we will come back to, because this is a terrible crime. We do a lot to make it easier for the police to access it. I would like to warn you against describing it as saying that the police in this area must not resort to provocative measures. That's not true. You have the right both to look at the internet and to identify the perpetrators. There are therefore some possibilities, but they are limited. It is a strict set of rules, so you must not do anything like that. However, we must not describe it as a general ban on provocative measures in this area, because that is not true. This is an important issue. Above all, we will have to come back to it in international contexts, because if we do not get even better cooperation between different countries, where information is exchanged and data is secured, it will be very difficult to convict people for this type of crime. Efforts are needed here at home in Sweden. We need to raise skills, tighten up legislation and develop tools for the police but also cooperate more internationally, because this is a crime that has grown in recent years and which we must push back.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-437	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that crimes committed by foreign actors are not closed down by prosecutors. The question is in relation to individual cases that have been highlighted in the media. The handling of individual cases is a matter for the authorities. It is not something that I as a minister should judge or comment on. In Sweden, the principle of an absolute pre-trial duty applies, which means that a pre-trial investigation will be initiated as soon as there is reason to believe that a crime has been committed. A complainant is also obliged to prosecute if he or she considers that the prosecution will lead to a conviction. These principles are well-founded and important. It is therefore an obvious starting point that suspected crimes should be investigated. It is an equally reasonable starting point for prosecution to be brought when a conviction can be expected. And this applies wherever the suspect is a citizen. At the same time, there must be scope for appropriate priorities, not least in order to concentrate the resources of the judiciary on the tasks that are most pressing and most useful. Therefore, in certain exceptional cases, a preliminary investigation may be suspended. This is the case, for example, if a further investigation were to be carried out, costs which are not proportionate to the importance of the matter and it can also be assumed that the criminal offence does not exceed three months' imprisonment. The aim is, among other things, to allow investigations into less serious crime to be closed when it cannot be assumed that reasonable efforts will lead to the matter being resolved and someone can be prosecuted for the crime. The Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office handle a very large number of traffic offences. In order for the handling to be as effective as possible, the Prosecutor's Office has concentrated the handling of certain offences in the field of traffic to two specifically designated prosecutor's chambers. The Council has taken a number of steps to put the road in order. For example, we have made sure to extend the time limit for how long a police officer or a customs officer can prevent a vehicle from continuing to travel by taking care of, for example, vehicle keys or locking the vehicle. It provides better opportunities to prevent continued infringements of CTA. The Government has also set up an investigation into more effective checks on road traffic. The aim is, among other things, to create a regime that, with more effective controls and sanctions systems, promotes law enforcement. The investigator will consider, inter alia, whether to replace more effectively criminal sanctions with administrative fines. It is important that sanctions in the field of professional transport are as effective as possible.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have had the privilege of listening to some very interesting interpellation debates before this one. They clearly show that crime is different today from just 10 to 15 years ago. This also applies to road crime. There has been more international crime, and surface operations are carried out in a completely different way than before. In reply to me, the Government was unable to comment on individual cases. I'm completely clear on that. However, the fact that we are discussing this and have done so on several occasions shows that there is a system error. I started the day by calling one of my old colleagues, who over the past year have been very involved in a few very interesting cases. But they do not get to those who put the system in place to round the legislation. Serious crimes are committed on the roads in Sweden in the form of illegal professional traffic. You manipulate tachographs and things like that. It has no consequences. As soon as you have gone beyond the borders of the country, the prosecutors are closing the cases, as it is not considered worthwhile to take care of. A prosecutor who was previously at the Special Prosecutor's Chamber wanted to try so-called attachment, that is to say that you leave the stuff until they have fallen. Thus, they can pay and do the right thing. Otherwise, the vehicle is simply sold in order for the state to collect the fine. It is extremely important that offences committed lead to penalties under current legislation. It shall apply to everyone, whether it is a Swedish or a foreign citizen who is guilty of a crime. There must be no difference there. But it is in road traffic today. One of the reasons for not being able to use the option of attachment is that the truck is their source of income. Yes, it is. It is also often the criminal networks that carry out such activities. Well, then, there's every reason to hold the truck with a lien, because it's a crime tool. This is where you have to think. We need to adapt the legislation so that we can really get to this new type of crime that surrounds us every day. Breaking current legislation should cost money. The state will also take the crime tool. It is not a question of taking the car from an honest skier who happens to be wrong, but of taking the vehicle from a criminal who uses it as a crime tool. The Swedish Transport Agency came up with a proposal two years ago to get to this. But the government said no. It would be interesting to hear the reason for this. My former colleague states that we must do something before everyone finds out that cheating in Sweden is free. So those who commit crimes are not to be found. The Norwegians, on the other hand, are a bit sharper than we Swedes are. They had this week a checkpoint at Svinesund and Örje. What happened there is interesting. I will come back to that in the next speech.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-455	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for another interpellation about order and order on the roads! These are important issues, and we have talked about them several times before. One important thing that we are both, I think, waiting for is the great investigation that looks at how to achieve more effective control of professional traffic. It shall make its proposals on 30 April. So it's getting closer. One of the areas that the investigation is looking at is precisely a shift of sanctions from criminal sanctions to fines. It has been shown in many different areas that it is more effective and easy to work with fines. It has a major impact on companies to obtain fines. I don't know if that covers the whole issue. But it is important not to lock in to the tools that we have today, but also to look at experiences from other areas, such as the fact that a shift in penalties actually plays a role in working more effectively with that kind of prosecution of criminal activities. I am quite aware that we in Sweden have for a long time had too lax an approach to traffic issues. I'm not going to politicize too much, but it's been way too lax. It has not been taken seriously. This has led to more criminal activity. As a result, many Swedish companies have flagged out to other countries because some other countries have not complied with Swedish rules. Now we have gradually tightened this up. We are also one of the driving forces in the European system to bring about proper rules at European level so that we can intervene against criminal activities and the exploitation of people in this area. It is an area that the government takes very seriously. We look forward to the investigation coming up with its proposals for more effective control of professional traffic. It's a few months away. The police have also received a new assignment in the field of traffic that I would like to inform you about. In the regulation letter, the police again received a new assignment in the field of traffic: They shall report on their duties by 31 August 2021 at the latest. So we continue to be in the police department when it comes to taking these issues seriously.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-461	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll try to express myself figuratively. What you need to do is tip out the entire toolbox on the floor and then pick up the tools that are most useful in accessing the criminal networks and hanging them on the board. It's extremely important. That must be a priority on the subject. I'll come back to the Norwegians. The head of the National Road Administration says that 19 January was complete chaos on the roads. He hasn't seen anything like it in the 25 years he's been there. 426 heavy vehicles passed Svinesund and Örje. 65 vehicle combinations were checked. Of the 65, 35 were banned from driving. 49 vehicles were ordered. 21 drivers were fined for driving with bad tires. 2 drivers were fined SEK 37 000 for defects in winter tires and heresy. One of these drivers was fined SEK 24 000 and ordered to switch to approved tyres. The replacement of tyres costs an additional 50 000 SEK. They really take hold and point with the whole hand: are you going to drive in Norway it should be order. And if it's not order, it'll cost money. So must it be here too. The head of the office also says that if they had only more control officers, they would have been able to take additional vehicles. They took the worst they saw. What is most frightening is that those cars have rolled through Sweden, but no one has taken any action. When they came to Svinesund and Örje, however, it sneezed. In this way it is; the criminals and those who engage in this kind of crime do not, as a priority, have to comply with the legislation. We see that time and time again. The fact that this is just about foreign actors is not quite right. Behind are often Swedes who have bought a cancelled car. It has all the data on the vehicle, sits at the computer and orders a registration number and certificate from an appropriate country, usually Romania or Bulgaria. Then comes the registration plate and registration certificate home in a small box. Then just screw it onto the car. At the same time, a person has been ordered online, who is delivered to a given location and takes over the vehicle and drives. They go completely in the shade, and the authorities can't get to them. Something happens if the police take them. But otherwise they are not visible. That's why it's really important to get people on the road who really take hold of this. The car inspector I talked to this morning also said that there is a German trucker, actually with a female trucker, whose cars they have picked five times. Now the contact between the police in Västerås and that haulage company is so common that you know exactly which account to send the money. When the car inspector has talked to the Swedish Transport Agency, he has been told that the haulage company has been in contact with the police before, on eight or ten occasions, and each time has paid SEK 40 000 in penalty fees. We must then ask ourselves whether it is not too little with 40 000 kroner, as one obviously does not care but continues along the road and gets stopped over and over again. We have to think about 40 000 kroner is far too little. Maybe it should be ten times as much, so we can get some order on this. It has to cost money when you break the rules. The state must protect the serious companies and those who are employed there.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-471	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that breaking the rules must cost money. That is why, unlike previous governments, this government has imposed fines. The Swedish police must have done something right if you have done infringements have had to pay eight ten times to the police account. This particular haulage company has, in any case, been caught when the Swedish police have made checks, which is a positive thing. The government has tightened the customer responsibility for international transport. We have also introduced the possibility of taking care of and locking fixed vehicles. We have done many parts in a short time, and we intend to continue to do so because we have decided to clean up the sector and get things sorted out but also to get safety in the industry. It is about fair competition, fair conditions and a good working environment and combating this kind of crime. I am absolutely sure that the investigation that has been commissioned to determine how more effective checks on professional traffic can be carried out has twisted and turned over all the tools that are in the toolbox. I think they will put these tools before us on the table when the investigation proposal comes in April. I look forward to continuing the discussion then.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-475	Madam President, I would like New Year's is over, so maybe you shouldn't make your resolutions now. But I can assure you that the discussion will continue. Of course, it's true that the police are doing the right thing, but they're too few. What if there were more of them? Then it would have been different. There are some islands in Sweden that are very good. Västerås is one of them, and we have Helsingborg. I know that they have been looking at the business in Helsingborg. The officials there are extremely good. They almost smell a car that's not in order two kilometers away and pick it up. There'll be a bite every time. It brings me to the end of what I'm going to talk about today. The unit in Västerås has picked up a forwarder who has been noticed in the media on several occasions. It's about Samskip. They have contacted the Swedish Transport Agency and asked if they can not deposit money in an account where the Swedish Transport Agency can collect money every time the company is reported. It's kind of funny. They therefore know that they are doing wrong but do not care about the legislation. Instead, they want to deposit money that the authority can take off every time they make mistakes. Hasn't something really gone wrong in the whole process when a big operator does this? It's time to think about not taking those 40,000 crowns by ten! It's gonna clean this up. Much needs to be done. Breaking the rules should be expensive. We need more people to put an end to this out there, because it also supports the criminal networks and the misery discussed in the two previous interpellation debates.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for an interpellation on an important subject! We share a lot of the problem description. On the one hand, we share the description of the need for more effective tools to access criminal activities so that competition becomes fair, and on the other hand we share the picture that the police are too few. They're too few in general. That also applies to what I have reported before. The head of the Swedish Police has an ambition to increase the number of such specialists over time in order to gain additional competence. He also wants to collaborate with actors to clean up here. I am absolutely sure that Tomas Eneroth, who even more than I work with these issues every day, is eager to see if the penalty fees should be increased so that it bites even more when you break the rules. These are issues that we will continue to work on until we have cleaned up the sector and the industry. It is important for competition and road hauliers and for combating crime in Sweden.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-484	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked the Prime Minister what the planning for the government's work on the new national security strategy looks like. He has also asked whether the Prime Minister intends to act to establish a National Security Council responsible for a new national security strategy. Finally, he has asked how the Prime Minister intends to anchor a new national security strategy with the parliamentary parties. The interpellation has been handed over to me. When the Prime Minister presented the national security strategy in 2017, it was the first time that a Swedish government made a comprehensive presentation of its view of Sweden's security in a broad sense. The Security Policy Council, established by the Government in 2014, has continuously followed the implementation and implementation of the Strategy. It has begun work on developing a new national security strategy. This is done for several reasons, but mainly because the threat to Sweden has changed since 2017 when the first strategy was decided. The Prime Minister's Committee leads and coordinates the work on the new strategy, and all ministries, together with the relevant authorities, contribute with expertise. It is a major task, and the aim is to enable a new strategy to be decided by the end of the year. It is still too early to say what measures will follow from the new strategy and how it will be implemented. There is, of course, a significant value of a continued broad consensus in the Riksdag that promotes long-term and continuity in the work for Sweden's national security. It would be good to be able to do so in this process as well.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-489	Madam President, I would like The intervention was addressed to the Prime Minister because it is the Prime Minister and not the Minister for the Interior who has overall responsibility for the implementation of the national security strategy. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to the interpellation. The Prime Minister's Secretary of State recently presented the work on the forthcoming national security strategy at Folk och Försvar. She then said that the government should throw the net wide and that it should arrange seminars, engage NGOs and think tanks and even consult other Nordic countries. What she didn't mention about was how to involve the parliamentary parties in the process. Nor has the government otherwise had any dialogue with the Riksdag with a view to anchoring neither the present nor the future strategy. I think that is fundamentally unfortunate and bad for Swedish security. We risk getting a national security strategy that becomes the government's rather than Sweden's security strategy. Madam President, I would like There are a number of security issues that really deserve to be discussed across party boundaries with the aim of finding broad and long-term agreements. I would therefore like to say on behalf of the Moderates that we think there is a need, for example, to update the Swedish declaration of solidarity in order to be able to include the British after they have left the EU. We have pointed out the need to review and deepen Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation in crisis and war, but also how a NATO option can be introduced into the Swedish security policy line. We also see a need to hold talks on how to shape the future national security strategy. So far, unfortunately, we have had to call the government's attention to these issues, which I find regrettable. A minority government should be interested in anchoring its policy in parliament, especially in the area of security and defence. However, I interpret the reply of the Minister for the Interior in a positive spirit. He says he is seeking some form of dialogue on the matter. We welcome this from the opposition. Fundamentally, Madam President, I believe that the deeper and stronger a national security strategy is established within the government and with the parliament, authorities, business and wider society, the greater the conditions for achieving its purpose. I think there are important experiences to draw from the current strategy, which, in my view, has not had the influence and influence that an important and central document deserves. I would like to give some examples of the lack of anchoring. Firstly, the national security strategy was not mentioned at all in the last government declaration. Secondly, the foreign policy declaration, which is a little bit the government's home Bible on security policy issues, has not mentioned the national security strategy for four years. Thirdly, the two reports of the Defence Committee do not mention the national security strategy, except in two lines where it is handled. Fourthly, the security strategy is not specifically mentioned in any of the regulatory letters to important safety authorities that we have in Sweden, such as MSB, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service. Unfortunately, unless the authorities are given guidance on how to dimension their work in order to live up to the security strategy, I do not think that there will be much of it. We have such an Oxenstier model in Sweden. I think it is quite clear to everyone that this strategy has not become nearly as influential as it should have been. The lack of anchoring is an important reason for this. I would therefore like to put two questions to the Minister for Home Affairs. Firstly, how has the government followed up the implementation of the national security strategy with its authorities? Secondly, does the government now intend to invite party talks to anchor the formulation of the future strategy?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-502	Madam President, I would like Now that we are going to update the national security strategy, it is incredibly important that there is a solid basis. We are really in that phase now, and it has been written about it in the media. It has been questioned why important authorities are now updating situational images from a broad security policy perspective. I think it is quite natural that we should take in the expertise of our authorities to lay the foundations for a new national security strategy. Already in the first national security strategy, we said that we would update this regularly every five years. That is why this is happening. This is a discussion which, not least, the Moderates have been involved in highlighting in this House. The hybrid threat picture places different demands on us when we handle our security and are on the whole threat scale, all the way to increased preparedness and war. Even in peacetime, you can be exposed. One can be subjected to influence and interventions in Sweden that civil authorities must be prepared to identify, manage and analyse. I think that this suggests that it is important that we have a broad description of the threat picture and take in expert knowledge when we make an updated national security strategy, and we are in that phase right now. This has been the government's national security strategy. That's how it was presented by the Prime Minister when we adopted it. It would be an important tool for the government in our work. There is now a discussion on the need for anchoring and the need to see the long-term. Perhaps one should not shift the focus of the national security strategy at a – god forbid – change of government or something like that. There is, of course, a significant value in a continued broad consensus in the Riksdag, which I think we have not least in much of the work of the Defence Committee on security policy. This strategy has had the ambition to have a broader focus on national security and Swedish interests. If the Moderates are sincere in their will to contribute to such a strategy, I welcome it. I would like to return to those questions a little later, when we are a little further and there is also something to talk about. Right now we are in the analysis phase, where our expert authorities are laying the foundations for the work ahead. This is the first time we have had a national security strategy. It is also important that we draw conclusions from this on how this will develop in the future. That is why we are doing a great deal of work on this issue right now. I think we have a lot to gain from that. I welcome the commitment of the Moderates to this issue and understand that there is an honest intention to contribute to the strategy work.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-506	Madam President, I would like I appreciate what Mikael Damberg says. I have also identified significant development opportunities and needs in the current strategy. That is why I am highlighting a number of these issues. I believe that a successful national security strategy must be clear and feasible and must be continuously monitored. Mikael Damberg says in his reply that the main reason we need a new security strategy is that the threat picture is different. I am also very well aware that we have a very changing and quite dynamic threat picture. That is exactly why the Moderates presented a 24-point programme to further develop our protection against various types of hybrid threats. I think it is important to be at the forefront in this area. However, the major problem with the national security strategy is not the threat analysis but the lack of follow-up and implementation. I also think that has become clear during the pandemic. After all, the pandemic is the greatest crisis that the West has experienced since the end of World War II. I think it is clear that our emergency preparedness and resilience have been far too weak. We have deep structural problems with our crisis management capabilities that I think need to be addressed here and now. These are also issues that I think a national security strategy must address if it is to become legitimate and relevant. Madam President, I would like Let me take a few examples linked to the fact that I do not think it is precisely the threat analysis that is the major problem. The current strategy shows, for example, that pandemics and infectious diseases are one of eight threats to Sweden's security. I will readily admit that when I read it I might not think this was so relevant that it was in parity with, for example, an armed attack or the cyber threat in terms of probability and consistency. Afterwards we have seen that the pandemic has washed us over with all the necessary clarity. The problem I see when I read this strategy is that what the strategy proposes to implement was not in place three years later. The strategy is clear about the need to stock medicines and protective equipment and the need to have contingency plans and strengthened coordination and cooperation plans. These are exactly the kind of things we didn't really have in April and May. Again: It is the implementation of the strategy that I think is really important. The Minister for Home Affairs says in his reply that the Government's Security Council has continuously followed the implementation and implementation of the strategy. If this is the measure of the effectiveness of the Security Policy Council, I would very well recommend to the government that we look at the moderate proposal we have put forward on a national Security Council. A National Security Council is quite different from the Government's Security Council. A National Security Council has a permanent staff, has a national security advisor who runs the day-to-day work, is directly under the Prime Minister and has in particular an ability to gather the entire Government Office's ability to lead crises. As I understand it, the Security Council is a forum for information and discussion on strategic and security policy issues. Madam President, I would like When you write a national security strategy like this, I think you should compare it with other countries. If we compare the Swedish strategy with, for example, the US National Security Strategy, it is of course quite plain. But I also believe that we have a great deal to learn from Finland in this area. They have had a security strategy since 2003. Every year, the President brings together all those involved in security-related issues, judging by a number of issues, so that rapid action is taken against the shortcomings in the field of preparedness.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-514	Madam President, I would like Exactly how one chooses to organise the activities of the Government Office is up to an incoming or existing prime minister to decide. I think it is quite important to have a prime minister organise the work throughout the Government Office. The purpose of the Government Office is to assist the Government in achieving political objectives, strategies and other things. I do not want us to draw conclusions quickly on exactly how to organise ourselves right now, because we have just set up an investigation into how crisis management under the coronapandemy has worked. When considering this, I think it is important to consider a number of issues. The Moderates highlight several important issues, but there is also a need to consider the balance between strategic discussions and operational issues. This is important. We have seen quite a few contexts where issues of an operational nature are too much mixed up with issues of a strategic nature. Then we'll know what's taking the upper hand. It will be the operational work that completely dominates. Regardless of which system you choose, you must have the ability to handle this, so that you do not lose the strategic perspective, which is often more long-term. It is about steering systems and making them change in one direction, while the operational efforts today under the crisis management regime we have in Sweden are based on the principle of responsibility and proximity. Those who usually handle a matter in peace and normal conditions do so even in crisis, because they have the most knowledge and ability to handle it. If you are to make a difference and change it, you have to think about: what are the consequences for powers, accountability and how the system works? I am not saying this because I do not think it is an important discussion. I just think that we need to take the discussion in one and the same context so that we can see the whole picture of this. That is why I believe that, in any case, because we are still dealing with the pandemic, we, as the government, want to wait for evaluations of crisis management to discuss how to change operationally or perhaps strategically change organisation in the future. In a crisis, people would rather not turn responsibility upside down. We have done so on a few occasions where we have shifted some responsibilities during the crisis. It will be interesting to study it too. It hasn't been the fastest processes. It has not always been clear to all the parties involved what has happened when we have shifted responsibilities. It is incredibly important to take this time with national security strategies. The point of a strategy is that you can also train, practice and prepare for a number of scenarios, something that is incredibly important. It also gives the opportunity to identify shortcomings, develop operations and sort out responsibilities even when it is not a crisis. I look forward to continuing the discussion and to hearing the views and ideas of the parliamentary parties on this. However, there are a number of difficult trade-offs that need to be made when looking at the development of the whole system over time. This should be done in one and the same context.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-521	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for this debate. The pandemic has been a significant stress test for our crisis management capabilities. It is clear that we need to draw a number of conclusions. The comparison has been made with whether this had not been a crisis without a war and how well prepared and equipped we would have been for it. I think it calls for afterthought. Having touched on Parliament, the government and the authorities, I would also like to say a few words about the security strategy linked to business and wider society. It could be used to protect business better than it does today. Sweden's long-term economic competitiveness is becoming an increasingly important part of our overall security. At the same time, competitiveness today is threatened, for example, by fairly systematic and state-sanctioned cyber attacks and cyberintelligence. We also see an increased intelligence activity directed towards Swedish financial interests. This is particularly true of companies that often carry out socially important and security sensitive activities. The government often talks about the broad concept of security. I would advise that Sweden's economic security and long-term competitiveness should also be assessed when assessing these issues. Now the Minister of the Interior knows that there was an inquiry into the role of industry in the overall defence which pointed to a number of legal constraints when it came to state aid and competition neutrality. In the UK, which used to have the same procurement rules as Sweden, this problem was solved by identifying long-term economic competitiveness as a vital security interest. It was then included in the national security strategy. It also provided a better legal basis for consulting and protecting socially important and security-sensitive companies. My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is simply whether it is valued that long-term economic competitiveness can also become part of the broader concept of security.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-528	Madam President, I would like I do not think I want to precede the analysis work that is now being done. If I start to put different headings for this, we will soon be stuck in that I have decided before what the strategy should contain. I'll wait with it. It is an interesting perspective that is being addressed. There we also have Sten Heckschers's major investigation, which is now working to protect Swedish interests internationally. It is about both monitoring which business can occur against Swedish interests and our ability to prevent or ultimately stop it. It's an incredibly important investigation that's going on. We have already taken steps with regard to security-sensitive activities that cannot be transferred. There is new legislation in place. With regard to economic security, this is also the second part, which I believe both the Moderates and the government parties have a great interest in continuing to discuss from a European and international perspective. It is our continued high dependence on international trade and investment. It is important that the discussion does not turn into full-scale protectionism. It could harm our national interests enormously if we do not see the large investments that create jobs in Sweden and also access to the large market that Swedish companies need. After all, we are only 10 million inhabitants. If our global companies are to compete on the world market, they need access to international markets. The perspective is definitely interesting. We look forward to continuing to discuss it. I also had a round table meeting just a few weeks ago with business representatives and industry organisations to discuss precisely the issues of security of supply that have arisen during the pandemic. We will also be setting up a cross-sectoral Business Council in the future within the framework of civil defence development. In addition, we have set up a cybersecurity centre. One of the aims is to defend Swedish interests including cooperating with the business community against, for example, cyber threats and espionage. I have great expectations that it will develop over time.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-534	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked the Prime Minister whether he has continued to trust those ministers who have not followed the strong calls of the Government for how to behave during the pandemic and whether the Prime Minister will take any action. The interpellation has been handed over to me. After the summer, the spread of the virus that causes the disease covid-19 has increased, and the situation is and has been very serious for some time. During the autumn, the government and the relevant authorities have taken several decisions on new councils, restrictions and other measures to reduce the spread of infection. At the same time, it has been urgent to keep society open as far as possible. In order for it to work, it is necessary that those who move around in society avoid all forms of congestion. The Prime Minister has confidence in his ministers.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-538	Madam President, I would like I note that, despite this brief answer, the Prime Minister has failed to discharge the responsibility that he should have as Prime Minister to stand here and answer this urgent question. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is not easy to be Mikael Damberg today precisely because the Prime Minister is cowardly enough not to be here. Damberg is used because the Prime Minister cannot answer for the complete failure of his government. For this reason, I think that both Mikael Damberg and the Swedish people deserve better than a prime minister who is fleeing a demanding responsibility. Madam President, I would like I could stand here and talk widely about the so-called Swedish strategy based on voluntary and own responsibility. It has been called that it is a long-term sustainable strategy that works best due to our culture and our way of living here in Sweden. However, we can see that it is neither long-term nor short-term. Furthermore, the right to freedom seems to be very important to the government. That sounds nice. But that also means that we have seen a constant scepticism from the government when it comes to various restrictions. The slightest restriction has been skeptical. What has not been mentioned here is that the freedom that the government defends does not apply to everyone. You protect the right of a 25-year-old to take a couple of beers at the restaurant. But you don't protect the same right for an 80-year-old to be able to buy supplies at his local grocery store. In long people, risk groups have been forced to isolate themselves so that they can stay away from the infection that is ravaging society. It has been their responsibility to protect their lives precisely because it is a life-threatening disease, and in some cases they have not been able to do so. This applies to those who have lived in special accommodations or who have had home help personnel. They simply have not been able to protect themselves. Madam President, I would like All this happens because the government defends freedom for some and claims to believe in its own responsibility, which obviously does not work. Confidence in the Swedish authorities is high, we have been repeatedly told, which is why it is expected that the Swedes will follow the restrictions. In combination with half-plumbing and sometimes unclear recommendations, people have been urged to take this seriously. This has been evident not least in the Prime Minister's so-called speech to the nation. He's been very serious. In November, he said: What we as a country are doing wrong now we will suffer for later. What we are doing right now brings us joy later. What we are doing now affects what the Lucia celebration will look like, what the Christmas celebration will look like and who will still be with us for Christmas. It may sound harsh, and it may sound brutal. But that's just how harsh and brutal reality is. Madam President, I would like Several ministers, including the Prime Minister, have ignored this call. In the past, the Minister has had to resign for minor transgressions. In Fredrik Reinfeldt's government it was about something as simple as unpaid fees. Two ministers had to resign in the space of eight and ten days, respectively – for unpaid fees! And this has put public health at risk. Madam President, I would like Why do these guidelines not apply to the government or its Heads of Government?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-548	Madam President, I would like In connection with a press conference on 18 December, when the government, together with the Public Health Agency, presented new restrictions in order to stop the proliferation of covid-19, the Prime Minister said: The situation is still serious. ..................................................... And for the vast majority, Madam President, it was somehow a different Christmas. For many who work in healthcare, especially in the field of iva, it was a Christmas without loved ones when they instead had to care for those who suffered the most from the pandemic. These health workers may be as if some deserve a little Christmas leave after months of stress and hard work in caring for our fellow humans. Many people in the country listened to the government's calls. They gave up travel, Christmas shopping and midday sale. The government has called for travel only if these are really necessary – all in order to keep travel and the spread of infection down. But it is now clear that these calls and recommendations do not apply to the government itself. The Minister of Finance went on a skiing holiday to Sälen and visited a ski rental on 20 December. We should remember that Sälen also had an outbreak among the staff, where several had suffered from covid-19. According to sources, the Minister of Social Affairs must have been seen at the midday sale in the Hansa City shopping centre in Kalmar and other stores. However, she has denied this in an answer to a written question; it should be mentioned. The Minister for Justice and Migration visited Nova in Lund on the midday sale. The Prime Minister was several times in December out in the Gallerian gallery here in Stockholm. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist went on a private holiday over the New Year's weekend to Finland. The Express reveals that it was not the first time he went on private trips, but he has made at least three private trips during autumn and winter. Madam President, I would like I wrote questions to the relevant ministers about their practices. The answers have now been received, and I can see that the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Finance are crouching behind the Minister for Social Affairs, who is thus demeaning his own claves. As a result, the three ministers mentioned, including the Prime Minister, made it very easy for themselves and avoided being responsible for the clave troupes they have made. I have to say, like Mr Wiechel, that the Prime Minister is not here to respond to the interpellation: it is quite cowardly behaviour. But I'm afraid that's speaking for the current government. However, the Minister for Justice and Migration himself responds, and he should be congratulated for that. However, he does not comment at all on his midday jumping. As late as 10 November, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson wrote on Facebook, saying one thing to voters but doing something completely different is called hypocrisy. ..................................................... Standing at press meetings and giving speeches to the Swedish people about abstaining from things such as Christmas trade, midday sale and travel while not doing so – that, Madam President, can rightly be called hypocrisy. As Mr Wiechel mentioned, the Minister has been allowed to resign for minor offences, such as unpaid television licences. But the current government minister seems to be able to do exactly what they want without any consequences. Perhaps it reflects how they view themselves – as unassailable political aristocrats where the motto is power above all.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-559	Madam President, I would like I was thinking a little bit about how this interpellation debate would develop and how the tone would be kept. I heard the words hypocrisy, cowards and power above all. One can conduct a political discussion in the low way if one wants to. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats believe that it is in their interests to lower the level of debate to this situation. Instead, let me raise the level of debate a little and take on board what the Swedish Democrats are saying here. They criticize in some way that no more was shut down in society during this time. It believes that it is a illogical strategy to both keep society open and to try to reduce the spread of infection and that people must therefore take responsibility for following advice and recommendations. I noticed that at the beginning of the pandemic the Swedish Democrats wanted to close Sweden's schools; I know that. But then it became quiet about it. It disappeared, and so the Swedish Democrats did not say very much in a very long time about which other activities they really wanted to close or shut down during the pandemic. This is probably the big dilemma for the Swedish Democrats in this debate. They now pretend that they thought something completely different during the pandemic but that they did not report it. It did not take the chance to say what should be shut down or what should be done quite differently. This means that the credibility of Sweden's democrats is decreasing quite strongly even now. I can only say that what the Prime Minister said about how we would have to celebrate Christmas was absolutely true. We would have to do so in a completely different format with far fewer friends and relatives than otherwise, and we would not be able to behave in the same way. It was also the case that the Swedish people changed and acted in a different way. We saw this as the spread of the disease peaked somewhere at the end of December and then decreased. This was the point; we had to reduce the spread of the disease. Right now we see that the spread of infection is decreasing quite strongly in Sweden, but we do not take for granted that it will continue. This may well change if people end up keeping their distance, because that is what is absolutely the most important thing in the strategy. First of all, it's about staying at home if you have the slightest symptoms – then you're at home so you don't infect anyone – and keeping your distance. We have a lot of different rules and recommendations to achieve this in some way. If people are home when they are sick and if they keep their distance, the spread of infection will decrease, and then we can deal with the pandemic. Then you can do this in different ways. Now that we have a pandemic law that is up-to-date, there is more opportunity to regulate activities that previously could not be regulated legally in Sweden with restrictions on how many people can be in business and much more. It is a great relief for us to have legislation in place that will enable us to be more accurate. Nevertheless, I would like the Swedish Democrats to choose to have a different tone in the discussion on this. It's a big crisis we're going through. Many people have been affected. A lot of people have gotten sick. Many have died. You've lost family or friends. This is such a serious issue that I think we will benefit from trying to work as much as possible together in Sweden and that we are trying to have a line that means that we both manage the spread of infection, keep society going and ensure that children and young people get a good education so that they can manage even after the crisis. In particular, it is also a matter of ensuring that the staff working in the care of the elderly and in the healthcare sector are given the opportunity to do their job under reasonable conditions. Then the spread of infection must not only decrease at the moment but continue to be low. Our focus right now is to ensure that vaccination progresses in the way we plan and that the regions can do so according to the plan that basically the entire adult population will be able to be vaccinated before the summer.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-572	Madam President, I would like Once again, I can say that I still feel sorry for Mikael Damberg for having to stand here instead of the Prime Minister. When it comes to credibility, I can speak for myself. I have raised these issues since the beginning of March last year. I think it was on 4 March that I first sent a written question to the government, and in February I raised these issues in public. But then the disregard of the government representatives was complete. Furthermore, we had a peace of war, for which I had respect and understanding, and so there were no more incisive debates. But I respect, as I said, that Mikael Damberg, who does not normally work with this type of question, does not have 100% control of it. Regarding the choice of words hypocrisy, it is actually the words of Mikael Damberg's fellow minister. It is Morgan Johansson who has called what the government is currently doing hypocritically. You say one thing, but you do something completely different. What else would Mikael Damberg call it? About an hour ago, I was on the phone with a friend. He's not a member of the classic risk group, but he was hit by covid last fall. He was in hospital all December and still hasn't quite recovered. His lungs and heart have been severely damaged. He was on iva for five days. It wasn't safe for him to survive. If he hadn't called the ambulance, he'd have suffocated to death in his home. This is a person who didn't live very dangerously in the pandemic. He was hit. It was by chance that he suffered. As I said, he's been in a hospital, he's met other patients, and he has this experience himself. He's met with a health care professional. The health workers, those who are the true heroes of the pandemic, are appealing for a lockdown because they cannot do this. They're worn out. They are poorly paid; they get nothing more than what they usually get when they work in health care. They're tearing themselves out. We know that many have been on sick leave. A lot of people have gotten sick. A lot of people can't take it anymore. There are those who do not want to go back to work because of the situation in healthcare. These are the heroes of the pandemic, and they appeal for total shutdown. That is more than I have advocated during the pandemic. They appeal for it because they can't take it anymore. And then there are those who are affected, those who are sick, like my friend. What do you say to them when the government can't even follow its own calls? It's a mockery of them. My friend said so himself. He felt that it was a mockery when the Prime Minister chose to go shopping in violation of his own calls. In the Prime Minister's November speeches, which I mentioned earlier, with the strong call, he urged all the citizens to reconsider the very things they wanted to do. What was not extremely necessary would be reconsidered. He said, cancel, cancel, postpone!
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-583	Madam President, I would like I note that Minister Damberg avoids commenting on the conduct of his councillors when they violated their own recommendations. One could have concentrated the debate here on talking about the government's failed policy and measures in relation to the pandemic response, but I chose to focus on this very point that the ministers violate their own calls and recommendations that are assumed that the Swedish people should follow. Damberg says that the level of the debate is lowered and speaks of words as hypocrisy, but it is actually the government's own minister who is very good at lowering the level of debate in general. Hyckleri is Mikael Damberg's colleague Morgan Johansson's own word. I can quote him once again, ‘If you say one thing to the voters, but do something quite different, it is called hypocrisy.' The words are Morgan Johansson, on Facebook on November 10. What can it be called if not hypocrisy when you urge the people to do one thing but then do just the opposite yourself? It would be appropriate to go out and apologize and also explain why you do not follow your own recommendations. I can tell you I'm out shopping myself. I was out in the middle of the day, too. However, I follow the recommendations in other areas of mouthguards, keeping distance and so on. But I have not stood at press conferences and called on the Swedish people to abstain from this. There's a huge difference. I think the ministers should answer for that. As I said earlier, the Council of State has been allowed to resign because of unpaid television licences. But here you seem to be able to do exactly what you want without any consequences.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-589	Madam President, I would like I note that no one has accused the Prime Minister of creating congestion anywhere. He has kept his distance and made sure to follow the recommendations on distances that are available not to contribute to this. He has also made it clear that he had been able to buy this Christmas present for Ulla in some other way than as he did. Why, then, does the debate about this interpellation by the Swedish Democrats so much? In fact, I would have liked to abstain from the speech that I am now making. To be honest, are you sitting on any horse somewhere, pointing at others and taking no responsibility of your own? What do you say to Jimmie Åkesson, who stood in the Chamber in a debate in September with obvious cold symptoms without having received a negative covidtest? What do you say to Jimmie Åkesson, who went to the 50th birthday party? There were pictures of how to hang together in clusters. Did he keep his distance? We all have a responsibility to follow the advice and recommendations given. And I can say this: my councillors are extremely careful not to create congestion, to take responsibility and to follow advice and recommendations. Maybe this more reflects something else. The Swedish Democrats really think that Stefan Löfven should resign. That's what it's all about. Yes, please nod, Björn Söder! You have said that whatever question you ask, you want to get rid of Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. Then there will be this debate. I think it's a little unworthy. You have to take your own responsibility. You can't say like Björn Söder: I've been shopping in malls during the Christmas trade, with mouthguards and whatever it can be, but I hadn't said this before so I can do what I want. No, that's not how it works. Responsibility must be taken all the way, and care must be taken to follow the advice and recommendations given. The fact that the Swedish Democrats are currently committed to ensuring that a moderate becomes Prime Minister, that you change politics in a way that imposes quite a lot of restrictions on such things as employees' rights and regional safety representatives, that you voted in favour of the M-KD budget in the Swedish Parliament when you were given the chance of massive cuts in important activities, not least in order to combat unemployment, as a result, and that we are once again in a discussion where you will do anything to change Prime Minister is not strange. However, I did not expect you to have such a high voice in this debate. These are too serious issues to be made only low policy.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-595	Madam President, I would like Before I forget, I would like to thank the Government for its answer and today's important debate. I can then just say that Jimmie Åkesson has not stood in the speaker's chair and asked people to cancel, postpone and so on. He has followed the recommendations of the Public Health Agency regarding his speech here. It may have been weak recommendations – I think so, and he probably thinks so too – but it was the recommendations that he received. But the important thing is that it is not he who has stood here and lectured the Swedish people about how to do it, but it is the Prime Minister and others. It is the government that has said how to act but then ignored it. In other countries – for example in Canada but also in a number of other countries – ministers and ministers have resigned because they have violated their own requests. But in Sweden you can do almost anything, it seems, if you are a minister in Stefan Lövven's government. In Fredrik Reinfeldt's government, it was enough, as I said, that the television licence had not been paid. However, there is quite a difference: public health has been compromised here and it has violated its own calls. Why should an ordinary citizen of this country listen to the government when they cannot follow their own calls? Is a Christmas present really a necessary purchase? Is it necessary to go shopping for a Christmas present? I don't think so. That actually sounds pretty pathetic. I'm not going to lecture Mikael Damberg. As I said, he has not done this. However, he is the one who is set here by the Prime Minister to respond to the interpellation. What do you say to all those who have fallen ill and to the nursing staff of iva?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-600	Madam President, I would like You cannot stand here in the speaker's chair and claim that you have been too tougher rules, stricter demands and closed schools and at the same time say that you have no responsibility as a Member of Parliament or party leader of the Swedish Democrats. You have your own responsibility. You have to make your own assessments of how to deal with a pandemic and act under it. I have not heard that anyone has been able to demonstrate that any of the ministers has created congestion by their actions. You've been very careful about that. I have taken note of the pictures from the 50th anniversary party that Jimmie Åkesson was at, and there were no distances there, I can say. We need to think about the words used by the Swedish democrats, which are hypocritical and cowardly. I do not think we should hold the debate at that level. Let us return to a discussion on how we ensure that we keep the spread of infection down and protect the vulnerable groups in society and how we ensure that children and young people receive the education they need so that they can cope with the reality of the pandemic. This is a difficult balance, but right now it looks like the Swedish people during the Christmas and New Year holidays actually took on the great responsibility that we talked about at the time. We also imposed stricter restrictions on this, and it seems that it has had an effect, because the spread of infection is now decreasing. The big challenge now is to hold on and not believe that just because the vaccine comes you can act exactly as usual. Then it is a pity that Swedish democrats undermine the discussion that we, as a society and as a people, have actually succeeded in suppressing the spread of infection and must continue to do so in the spring so that vaccination can be completed and we can find ourselves in a new situation for society. Apparently, the Swedish Democrats take every opportunity to score political points, so split in society and use a high tone. I don't think it's good for the political discussion, I don't think it's good for Sweden and I don't think it increases the credibility of Sweden's democrats in Swedish politics either.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-606	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure long-term peace and security for the civilian population in Nagorno-Karabakh and what concrete measures I intend to take to speed up the exchange of prisoners of war, hostages and deaths, as the country holding the Presidency of the OSSE, and what concrete measures I intend to take to get an independent international investigation into suspected war crimes and the prosecution of those responsible. The government welcomes the agreement on a ceasefire of 10 November last year. However, the K onwindow is not over, and many issues remain to be resolved. The fighting in the autumn was intense and has caused great human suffering to the populations and extensive social damage. Sweden condemns attacks on civil and civil infrastructure. International humanitarian law must be respected. The humanitarian situation is very serious. Tens of thousands of civilians were forced to flee the conflict area, and residential areas and civilian facilities such as schools and hospitals have been destroyed. The situation has worsened by the widespread spread of covid-19, which the authorities have lacked the capacity to deal with due to the fighting. It is important that access for international actors is guaranteed in accordance with humanitarian principles. The government is closely following the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. As a member of the OSSE Minsk Group and Chairman of the OSSE in 2021, Sweden continues to support the efforts of the Minsk Co-Chairman. It is important that the OSSE and the international community remain committed to a long-term sustainable and peaceful solution negotiated between the parties. As Chairman of the OSCE, I also have a personal representative of the conflict who reports to me. The personal representative works with confidence building measures between the parties and supports the co-chairs. With a view to the Presidency in 2021, I have renewed his mandate. During the autumn, I have been in regular contact with the Minsk Group's suicide for spirit and the OSCE Presidency's personal representative. This work is intensifying this year. I have also discussed the conflict directly with the Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan. By 22 December at the latest, I held video meetings with Armenia's Foreign Minister Ara Aivazian and Azerbaijan's Foreign Minister Jeyhun Bajramov respectively. I expressed Swedish support to the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group and to the Personal Representative of the OSCE Presidency. I also emphasised the need for international and multilateral presence on the ground as a complement to the Russian and Turkish presence. The government takes seriously the information on suspected war crimes. I have pointed out on several occasions that people who have been involved in serious violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, are to be held accountable for their actions. Punishment is not an option. Under international law, the states involved have an obligation to investigate whether suspected war crimes have been committed. This also applies to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. In my talks with the Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan, I welcomed the start of the process of exchanging prisoners of war and remnants. It is also positive that a process has been initiated in Azerbaijan in order to call the perpetrators of war crimes to account, as I said to Foreign Minister Bajramov. I will also follow this up with both parties in the future and continue to point out their responsibility to hold war criminals to account in a careful, transparent and prompt manner. In response to the flare-up of the conflict, Sweden decided early in the autumn to contribute SEK 20 million to the humanitarian work of the International Committee of the Red Cross in the conflict area. Sweden also contributed SEK 2 million to Save B arnen's humanitarian efforts in Armenia. In addition, Sweden contributes to the long-term development of the region through regional assistance efforts linked to the EU's Eastern Partnership and bilateral reform cooperation with Armenia since 2019. Sweden strives for justice for all who have been affected and will be affected by the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. As Chairman of the OSSE, Sweden will continue to support the efforts of the Minsk Group co-chair for a long-term sustainable and peaceful solution negotiated between the parties.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-616	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, for a solid answer, which I must say it was! To those who have not seen the answer in paper format, I can say that it is two and a half pages long. I appreciate that. I am more satisfied with the answer today than with the answer I received to my previous interpellation, so I see that things are moving forward. However, I would like to clarify certain points to which I have not been fully answered. Madam President, I would like Let us go back to how the conflict developed. We know today that Azerbaijan made a full-scale attack on 27 September. The truce was broken three times. Unfortunately, the international community, the free world, that is, Europe and the United States, did not set foot in this conflict. Turkey and Russia were allowed to settle each other. The Caucasus is not a hot question just today. We can go back in history to the Turkmenchay agreement when the Persians and Tsarryssland settled on the Caucasus. There was also the Ottoman Empire. But we're not going to go back that far in history. We're going to look at how the war has developed. Over a night came a press conference from Vladimir Putin and the dictator Ilham Alijev. Armenia's democratically elected Prime Minister refused to be on the video link when signing the so-called cease-fire agreement. Just what I warned the Foreign Minister about happened: if Europe stands passively, it will be as Russia and Turkey want. They got what they wanted. Russia has set up its green men in Nagorno-Karabakh. We see a repetition of the Soviet Union, and now it's version 2.0. The only difference is that it is now the flag of the Russian Federation that is waving in Nagorno-Karabakh and not the flag of the Soviet Union. The conflict has not yet been resolved. Azerbaijan has won the war. Azerbaijan also broke the last ceasefire when it took the opportunity to take additional prisoners of war. Right now there is a psychological warfare against Armenia. Russia has an interest in sending Armenia into a domestic political crisis. A few hours after the agreement itself was signed, we saw an organized attack by the previous regime. It was not like the Capitol, but it was clearly organised by former oligarchs with interests in Armenia and Russia to bring back the old order, the order that was when Armenia was not a democracy. It is not in Turkey's or Russia's interest for democracies to emerge in the Caucasus. Just look at how Georgia developed. Georgia did a popular uprising more than ten years ago. What did Russia do then? Russia has a strategy against all countries, in different ways. But, Madam President, over 60 prisoners of war are still in Azerbaijan. Dictator Ilham Alijev uses this in a psychological warfare. They say there might be more. The Red Cross Committee has been tasked with making the exchange between Armenia and Azerbaijan, but they refuse. What concrete steps will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take, as Chairman of the OSSE and the OSCE Minsk Group, so that the exchanges actually take place?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-625	Madam President, I would like In spring 2018, a peaceful revolution took place in Armenia. The undersigned, as Vice-President, had the privilege of participating in the first foreign post-revolution visit. I took this opportunity to praise the handling of popular protests and to say that the country, both government and opposition, has demonstrated a democratic maturity during the protests that deserved the support of the outside world. Since the revolution, Armenia has been a country that has carried out major reforms to overcome previous structural problems. Even before the revolution, in November 2017, the EU concluded an agreement with Armenia on a comprehensive and expanded partnership, the so-called CEPA agreement. Sweden ratified the agreement in May 2019. Armenia is also part of the EU's Eastern Partnership, which aims, inter alia, to support reform processes in the country, including democratisation and respect for human rights. It was really bright for its development until Azerbaijan, with the support of Turkey and IS terrorists, attacked Armenia last September. The silence of the surrounding world, including Sweden, during the war was both shameful and embarrassing. The world stood silently watching as massive abuse from the Azeri side was carried out on both Armenians and Armenian property. Clearly nothing has been learned from history. Following the conclusion of an agreement with Russian interference on the armed conflict, internal political tensions in the country also increased, and Armenia is now in danger of taking many steps backwards in democratic development. Armenia needs all the support it can get. Over 30 000 people displaced from their homes during the armed conflict need housing, food and medical care. Children and young people who have lost their schools need training places. On top of that, like the rest of the world, the country is in a pandemic. I have put many questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the conflict and the situation in Armenia in the past year – she will be able to confirm that. They have included condemning the aggression of Azerbaijan and Turkey, the exchange of prisoners and bodies, investigations into war crimes and aid to Armenia. In particular, given that Sweden now holds the Presidency of the OSSE, it has been interesting to receive answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, these have been rather vague, and as far as condemnations are concerned, I still call for them. But you should also know when you're doing something good. The answer to this interpellation gives me, for the first time, more concrete answers to the questions I have asked earlier, and I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for that. It is good that the Foreign Minister, as Chairman of the OSSE, is now working on the issue of conflict so that it is not forgotten. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' view that international and multilateral presence is needed on the ground. The truth is that Russia has now taken control of areas in a very sophisticated way. That is why the international community needs to be in place. It is good that Sweden has provided support of SEK 20 million for the work of the International Committee of the Red Cross in the area. It is also good to give to Save the Children's humanitarian efforts in Armenia, as well as to participate in regional aid operations in the long term. But I'm afraid it's not enough. As I mentioned at the outset, Madam President, Armenia is struggling with many problems at the moment. I think they need more support, too, financially. As I mentioned, people are without food and accommodation. Schools are destroyed and so on. In view of the most urgent needs, I believe that greater support is needed. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she is prepared to use Swedish aid to extend aid even more to Armenia.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-635	Madam President, I would like Contributing to conflict resolution in the OSCE region on the basis of our common principles and commitments is high on my agenda as Chairman of the OSCE. It is one of the OSCE's fundamental tasks, and my active support for existing conflict resolution formats is aimed at this. Mr Arin specifically raised the issue of prisoners of war. I can say that we welcome the process of exchanging prisoners of war and remains that has begun. Swedish support for the International Committee of the Red Cross is important. It is a neutral and trusted intermediary, and they have facilitated the exchange of prisoners of war and remains in the region. The Presidency's personal representative for the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict has worked actively with confidence building measures between the parties, such as journalist exchanges and visits to the contact line. He has also worked to support the exchange of prisoners of war and remains. As Chairman of the OSCE, we will continue to support his work on this. I share Mr Arin's view that the process of exchanging prisoners of war and investigating potential war crimes should be accelerated. The government is closely monitoring developments and takes seriously the data on suspected war crimes. I have pointed out on several occasions that people who have been involved in serious violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, are to be held accountable for their actions. Punishment is not an option. The Geneva Conventions and their additional protocols contain rules on the treatment of prisoners of war. Under international law, the states involved have an obligation to investigate whether suspected war crimes have been committed. This also applies to events during the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Sweden is a driving force in strengthening the application of international humanitarian law. In this context, we are also pushing for international investigation mechanisms to be used. The International Criminal Court, the ICC, can be given jurisdiction to investigate crimes under its statute – genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes – in several ways. A State may accede to the Charter or make a specific declaration that it accepts that the ICC exercises jurisdiction over offences committed in its territory or by its nationals. Another option is for the UN Security Council to give that competence to the ICC even without the consent of the State concerned. The government has consistently stressed the need to investigate violations of human rights and international humanitarian law and to call perpetrators to account. I will follow this up with both parties and emphasise their responsibility to hold war criminals to account in a careful, transparent and prompt manner. Under international law, the states involved have an obligation to investigate whether suspected war crimes have been committed. This also applies, of course, to Nagorno-Karabakh.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-643	Madam President, I would like First, I want to get into the theme of prisoners of war. There was an exchange between Armenia and Azerbaijan of prisoners of war. At the same time, you can look at the cease-fire agreement itself: Stay in the positions where you stand! It was from November 10th at 2.30 p.m. 12 noon. But it wasn't that all the soldiers were standing at their positions. There's a lot of woods there in the mountain area. A large group of Armenian soldiers got lost, and Azerbaijan took the opportunity to take them as prisoners of war. An exchange has been made between Armenia and Azerbaijan, but at the same time Azerbaijan picked new prisoners of war. Just look at the Azeri media to see how to paint uniformed Armenian military as terrorists. Those who actually and with the help of Turkey used Islamic terrorists were the Syrian Turkmen jihadists, who are currently being offered housing. After all, many Azeri will not move to the seven districts that they have regained, for who wants to move from Baku, a very fine capital city, to a mountainous area that is barely built? This shows the difference between a dictatorship and a democracy. Alijev has ruled the country with an iron hand. The country is governed by two families with a historical connection both to Russia – Alijev's father was a KGB agent – and to Erdo中an. It is very clear how Turkey is using its geopolitical expansion, that is, trying to associate itself with Turkish-speaking people. When it comes to prisoners of war and remains, it's about psychological warfare. It is precisely in Armenia that it is known that it is also an internal political crisis. If there is ever a small country that Sweden should take the opportunity to safeguard a democracy, it is well now. As far as war crimes are concerned, I can inform both the President and the Minister for Foreign Affairs that a report has been received to the Swedish War Crimes Commission, which I have learned about by e-mail. Swedish prosecutors have learned about this, and there is much evidence. You see uniformed Azeri soldiers cut the throats of innocent civilians and soldiers, and you're shooting soldiers draped in the Armenian flag. Human Rights Watch, Genocide Watch and Amnesty report on this. I am also convinced that there have been war crimes on the Armenian side. That is why we should have an international, independent investigation in place to clarify what has happened. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is once again: will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take the initiative so that we can clarify this through the International Criminal Court or the UN? This marks the path of future generations. When you don't sort things out, history will repeat itself. The last time these two countries were at war was in the 90s. Since then, 30 years have passed. Do we see another war in 30 years? I hope not. However, I do not think that I will be in politics and standing in this chair in 30 years' time either. That is why it is important to act now. What initiatives will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take?
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-650	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to my question, but I also learned from the reaction of the Foreign Minister that she did not deliberately leave out the answer to the question. I therefore repeat the question: is it prepared to use aid to increase aid to Armenia even more than it has done so far? I would also like to know the reasons why Azerbaijan and Turkey have not been condemned in this respect. I can understand why we did not want to burn diplomatic bridges and so on when we were taking over the Presidency of the OSSE, but given how the situation is escalating and developing, we cannot treat these parties as equal. Here we have a country that has carried out democratic reforms and is heading in the right direction. That country was attacked by another country, a dictatorship which also hires IS terrorists and which, with the support of Erdo中an's Turkey, slaughters people. They cannot be treated as equivalent, and I think that, regardless of whether you are or should become Chairman of the OSSE, as was the case last autumn, I lack a condemnation from the Swedish Government and the Foreign Minister of what happened. It was kept quiet and just said that any war crimes must be investigated and so on and that we want to try to resolve the conflict so that there is no armed conflict anymore and so on. But there was never any condemnation, what I can see, and I called for it many times. Things can go to a limit when you can no longer sit quietly, and in this case they did. Then we must be able to go out and condemn, and I would like to have a condemnation of what happened and of what Azerbaijan did to Armenia from the Foreign Minister.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-654	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by apologizing for not answering the previous question. It was an oversight. We are following the conflict closely. With regard to the support efforts that we have already made with the ICRC and Save the Children, I note that there is likely to be a need for further support for humanitarian activities in the region this year too. We are analysing how best to do this in order to guarantee the peace and security of civilians. This includes, for example, mine clearance in the area, where the consequences are very problematic not least for children, as you know. I would also like to point out that the Eastern Partnership is now being further pursued, with billions being spent on the Member States, including Armenia. It was 2016 – 2020, and now there will be a new period. I am not just ruling out, but rather confident that there will be more aid. As regards Mr Arin's question as to how we can ensure that those responsible are held accountable, Sweden is one of the greatest promoters of the International Criminal Court, and through the creation of the Rome Statute the investigation and prosecution of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes is made possible. It is a major step forward in ensuring that there is no impunity. The Court can in principle exercise its jurisdiction, i.e. prosecute and judge individuals, only in those states which are parties to the Rome Statute. This makes it difficult, because neither Armenia nor Azerbaijan are parties to the Rome Statute. In that case, the UN Security Council must decide to refer the matter to the Court of Justice. The Court can then carry out its duties. It is important, then, that this issue should be included on the agenda of the UN Security Council and that it should be assessed there that this conflict is a threat to peace and security internationally. After all, the ICC has only one complementary jurisdiction, and then they will act where the national legal systems do not prosecute reasonably. This can happen if you feel that national legal systems have collapsed or if you do not dare to prosecute in any way. There is no doubt that the situation is very serious. Many issues are outstanding and remain to be resolved. I believe, also in view of Björn Söder's question, that it is very important that we try to bring about a sustainable peace agreement. There is no such thing, and the most important thing we can do as President of the OSCE is to support the co-chairs, i.e. the United States, France and Russia, and the special representative of Nagorno-Karabakh, in order for us to have a long-term peace. That's the most important thing right now.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-661	Madam President, I would like The reason I'm a little hard on the Secretary of State is because there's a track record. With regard to the dictatorship in Azerbaijan, there is the case of Ramil Safarov from 2004, an Azeri lieutenant who took part in a NATO-sponsored event in Hungary. During the night he broke into an Armenian colleague and murdered him – almost stabbed his throat – with an axe. Safarov was sentenced to life imprisonment. After eight years, he was transferred to Azerbaijan to continue serving his sentence. In spite of guarantees from Azerbaijan to Hungary, Azerbaijan broke those guarantees the second Ramil Safarov left the aircraft at Baku airport. Ramil Safarov was pardoned and appointed a national hero, promoted, received an apartment and compensation for eight years of lost income from the state. It was the dictator Ilham Alijev who saw to this. It is against this background that I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what guarantees the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not received any guarantees, if Azerbaijan does not cooperate, what measures will the Minister of Foreign Affairs take? It is time that we came down from the gallery, Madam President, and stopped talking warmly about human rights without actually acting. Sweden holds the Presidency. If it is at some point that we are going to act, it is now as the country holding the Presidency.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-665	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is not over and that many issues remain to be resolved. It is therefore important that the OSSE and the international community remain committed to a long-term sustainable negotiated solution. The Swedish OSCE Presidency operates through the personal representative of the OSCE Presidency and fully supports the Co-Chairman of the Minsk Group in their efforts in the region. The Swedish position is clear, namely respect for international humanitarian law and a return to negotiations under the co-chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group. Sweden strives for justice for those who have been affected and continue to suffer from the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. As Chairman of the OSSE this year, Sweden will continue to support the efforts of the Minsk Group co-chair for a long-term, sustainable and peaceful solution negotiated between the parties.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-667	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether the government will demand the immediate release of Ahmadreza Djalali, whether the government will demand the release of Habib Chaab, whether the Swedish Government will set an ultimatum for the release of Swedish citizens as a condition for continued normal intergovernmental and commercial relations, whether the government will demand through the EU an end to persecution and terror against refugees and the kidnapping of other countries' citizens, and whether the government will, like the Belgian Government, make it clear that if Iran executes and does not release Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab, this will have significant consequences for business activities and diplomatic contacts with Tehran in the future. In his interpellation, Amineh Kakabaveh addresses two serious consular cases. I would like to begin by emphasising the seriousness with which I and the government view the case of Ahmadreza Djalalis. His situation without television is still very serious, and our efforts for him continue unabated. Sweden consistently calls for the death penalty not to be enforced, and we have raised this repeatedly, including at government level. As Amineh Kakabaveh knows, Sweden, like the rest of the EU, condemns the use of the death penalty in all its forms. The death penalty is an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment that has no place in a modern legal system. The EU is a driving force in the abolition of the death penalty, and Sweden is taking an active part in the EU's work. The EU and individual EU countries, including Belgium mentioned by Amineh Kakabaveh, are engaged in the situation of Ahmadreza Djalalis and have courted Iran on the matter. I would also like to stress here the seriousness with which I look at the situation of Habib Chaab. Habib Chaab was reported missing in Turkey in October 2020 and subsequently proved to be in custody in Iran. As soon as we learned about the case of Habib Chaab, we followed up the data via our foreign authorities in Turkey and Iran. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has also repeatedly raised the case of Turkey's and Iran's Stockholm ambassadors. The information on Habib Chaab's situation is undoubtedly worrying. There is intensive work going on both in Stockholm and at our foreign authorities in the countries concerned. In our contacts with Iran, we ask for information on the situation of Habib Chaab and express our concern about it. I have personally raised both cases recently in talks with Iran's Foreign Minister Zarif. We continuously request consular visits to Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab. However, Iran has chosen not to grant permission for visits on the grounds that it considers Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab to be only Iranian citizens. I and the government take this very seriously. The government's vote is clear in its demands towards Iran, and we will never give up our consular efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab. Amineh Kakabaveh has also raised persecutions of refugees and Iranian kidnappings of citizens of other countries. In this context, it can be underlined that the EU has clearly called on Iran to release arbitrarily detained persons who have dual nationality in Iran and any EU country. This position, supported by Sweden, was expressed, inter alia, on behalf of the EU High Representative in the European Parliament on 17 December.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-677	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Hundreds of thousands of people throughout the world, states, ministers, prominent politicians and parliamentarians, the European Parliament, the UN Human Rights Committee, 160 Nobel laureates at the head of a united scientific community, Amnesty and other human rights organisations are calling for the immediate release of Ahmadreza Djalali. Why has Sweden not specifically demanded his release? Instead, you just want to stop the execution. The European Parliament and all Swedish MEPs support the statement on the release of Ahmadreza, all hostages of dual nationality and all political prisoners, including Nasrin Sotoudeh, who recently received the Nobel Prize in Sweden. Does the Swedish Government support the European Parliament's statement on immediate release? France, Germany and Belgium have made ultimatums for the regime in Tehran, but not Sweden. This is despite the fact that two Swedish citizens are in Iranian prison with an imminent risk of being executed at any time. Instead, Sweden continues to drive the ineffective silent diplomacy, which only strengthens the regime in Tehran vis-à-vis Sweden and the EU. You shake hands with the executioners in the corridors of power. Business continues as usual. Madam President, I would like Ahmadreza is not alone. I have also mentioned the Swedish citizen Habib Chaab, and the Foreign Minister mentioned him and takes his case seriously. He was arrested by the Iranian and Turkish security services in Turkey on a trip to the Middle East. He was kidnapped and taken directly to prison in Iran. Chaab was arrested as a prominent member of the Arab Struggle Movement for the Liberation of Ah v az, ASMLA, which promotes the human rights of the Arabs in the oil-rich province of Khuzestan. Like A hmadreza, he has been forced under torture to admit various crimes allegedly committed by the ASMLA. As in the case of A hmadreza, we know that the tasks of the regime are not to be trusted. It's all lies. To agree to Iran's diplomacy as the West does is to acknowledge the brutality of the regime against its own people, as Human Rights Watch testifies to in its report. The Iranian regime's violation of the fundamental human rights of its own people has been going on for four decades. What's going on now is the exchange of prisoners. Recently, attention was paid to the case of Australian-British Kylie Moore-Gilbert Kylie Moore-Gilbert, who was invited to a congress in Iran where she was arrested and imprisoned. She is released in exchange for the release of three terrorists in Thailand, and there is no talk of this. Everything happens in silence. Now we are talking about Iran demanding 800 million dollars from Britain to release Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe. This is trafficking in human beings in the name of diplomacy.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-687	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier in this House, the vote of the government has been very clear on the demands for Iran in the case of Ahmadreza Djalalis. Sweden requires that the penalty is not enforced. I have also asked for clarity on the worrying situation of Habib Chaab in my dealings with Iran's Foreign Minister Zarif. Intensive work on these cases is continuing both in Stockholm and in our foreign authorities in the countries concerned. In consular matters, there are sometimes demands for the government to publicly and continuously report everything that is done. Sometimes it is said that we do not do enough because we do not tell about everything that is done. Sometimes I myself would like to be even more open about such matters, but my absolute priority and that of the government is to do what we can to achieve results. I largely share the questioner's problem picture. However, the big question is how best to contribute to a positive change in Iran. One point that is sometimes highlighted is that further isolation of Iran with cut ties and cut-off communication would be a more effective policy towards Iran. But there is no evidence for this. On the contrary, the experience of recent years shows that the policy of isolation against Iran has only strengthened the position of the tough forces in the country. The human rights situation has not improved by this, on the contrary. We should therefore, I believe, continue to focus diplomacy and dialogue on both areas where we cooperate with Iran and areas where we are very far apart, for example in terms of human rights. Dialogue is the cornerstone of all diplomacy, which is often the best way to solve problems. However, dialogue does not have to be inconvenient or pleasurable. It is usually best for all parties that it is straight, clear and demanding. As Foreign Minister, I value clarity. Among other things, I have clearly condemned the violence inflicted on demonstrators during the demonstrations in Iran in late autumn 2019 and highlighted the importance of Iran respecting human rights, including the freedom of expression, association and assembly. I was the EU Foreign Minister who most clearly highlighted Amnesty International's report on these events. Amineh Kakabaveh also addresses Nasrin Sotoudeh's difficult situation. I have mentioned this on several occasions, including directly with Iranian representatives. In December 2020, I received the honor to award her the Right Livelihood Award. I particularly highlighted her struggle for the full enjoyment of human rights by girls and women, an issue that the government is pushing around the world. I pointed out that no one deserves prison sentences for standing up for human rights. Sweden's and the rest of the EU's position on the death penalty is well known. The widespread application of the death penalty in Iran is very worrying. Here, too, the government has been extremely clear, including in the cases of Navid Afkari and Ruhollah Zam. The Swedish Government will continue to have a clear and frank bilateral dialogue with Iranian representatives on these issues. Our consular work continues vigorously in a way that does not jeopardise individual cases.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-698	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt that the Foreign Minister is involved and addresses the issues in different contexts with Iran and Tehran. The problem is that it is one-sided. Iran has not responded, and this dialogue has been going on for over four decades. I want dialogue too. I am definitely not saying that we should suspend the dialogue. The problem is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs signed the agreement on increased academic exchange with Iran in science, research and technology in February 2017. The Secretary of State was there himself. The medical doctor Ahmadreza had been imprisoned a year before that. Why does one not make such an agreement conditional when a researcher with a Swedish background is in Iranian prison and it is so clear that the accusations against him are groundless? Instead, Iran is now demanding an exchange for executioners. One of them, Nouri, is in a Swedish prison. He gets a visa from the Migration Agency and the Embassy of Sweden while we as political refugees do not even get a visa for our parents. They do not get visas, but he who has committed human rights violations does. Over 35,000 people were murdered on his orders in the '80s, and he gets a visa and comes here. We're glad he's in Swedish custody. Iran also wants an exchange of prisoners with the diplomat who is in prison in Belgium for terrorist crimes. This is what Iran is doing as we stand here talking about dialogue and diplomacy and other means. Iran is open about wanting human trafficking in its diplomacy. Iran's dirty diplomacy is not for me. A different approach is needed, which the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs can adopt. Politicians and the tops of business do not understand that you should not do business with Iran unless you get something back. The job of European politicians is to actually take responsibility and intervene. This is particularly true of Sweden, which is a great power in the field of human rights. That is what we expect, me and many with me, we with Iranian-curdish backgrounds and others. Why does Sweden not demand the release of the Swedish citizens who are in Iranian prison? It would be great and I would be delighted if Sweden were to take the lead in bringing Iran through the EU to a total stop for executions, because they are terrible and barbaric. You hang people in public in streets and squares. That would be good. But I think the release is important, and it's important to be able to say it. I also wonder whether Iran has requested Sweden to exchange prisoners with Ahmadreza. It's important to know. I don't want to see minutes from the State Department. It is not a question of asking for it. But it is very important to know after 40 years what we have got from Iran.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-707	Madam President, I would like As I have said several times, the government continues to be in close and continuous contact with representatives of Iran, with regard to both the fall of Ahmadreza Djalali and the fall of Habib Chaab. I can confirm that our efforts continue unabated, but not at the level of detail required by Amineh Kakabaverh. In my opinion, a lack of dialogue and, as is sometimes proposed, the interruption of diplomatic relations would in no way favour the possibility of dealing with these consular matters or supporting the Iranians who stand up for human rights and the rule of law – on the contrary. Sweden and the rest of the EU believe that dialogue with Iran is a prerequisite for solving the problems and achieving results, although it will only be noticeable in the long term. When it comes to research cooperation and student exchanges between universities and higher education institutions in different countries, this is important. It is a long-standing Swedish stance, and it also means that it is possible to be critical of the lack of human rights and at the same time see the value of international cooperation between universities in different countries. Criticism was directed against Iran, for example, in the speech given to the European Parliament on 17 December by EU High Representative Borrell. Among other things, it focused on Nasrin Sotoudeh's situation, and clear demands were made for her release. But the general human rights situation was also highlighted, as was Ahmadreza Djalali's situation. The issue of dual nationality in an EU country and Iran, arbitrarily detained in Iran, was also raised. The EU is consistently making criticisms when Iran executes prisoners who were minors at the time of the crime, even when Mohammad Hassan Rezaei was executed on 31 December. Sweden participates in the EU's joint courtship of the Iranian authorities, often in support of individual prisoners sentenced to death. This has happened, for example, in the case of Ahmadreza Djalali. Since 2011, the EU has been applying restrictive measures, i.e. sanctions, in relation to serious human rights violations in Iran. The sanctions instrument has been in use for ten years now. Sweden has also proposed the establishment of an EU delegation in Tehran. This would make the EU-Iran dialogue on, among other things, human rights more effective. Joint EU action adds weight. Within the UN, among other things, the universal review mechanism Sweden provides the opportunity to make clear recommendations to Iran. Last time, Iran was called upon to abolish the death penalty, give full access to the Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran and protect human rights defenders. Sweden also highlighted the situation in Iran in its national speech last time at the UN Human Rights Council. Madam President, I would like There are no easy solutions to improve the situation in Iran and the rest of the Middle East. It's gonna take time. However, a lack of dialogue would rather benefit Iran's most tough forces, which benefit from a widening gap between Iran and the outside world.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-716	Madam President, I would like I know this, and it is very important and crucial that the European Union is united in relation to the treatment of human rights by the Islamic regime. Nasrin Sotoudeh we brought up. Despite her illness, she is again imprisoned. She was released for a few weeks and was with her family, but now she's back in. Last week I received a lot of messages from the Kurdish parts of Iran, saying that anyone is arrested for a single post on Facebook or a picture on Instagram. Nearly fifty young women and men were arrested last week. Iran therefore continues to arrest, imprison and kill students, bloggers, Kurdish human rights activists and native language teachers. Every woman's fighter is in prison. It is this regime with which we are having dialogue. I have not said that we should not have dialogue with this dictatorship, but I want the dialogue to lead to something good, such as the release of Ahmadreza and Chaab. Why the EU wants it but Sweden does not explicitly say it would be very interesting to know. Diplomatic contacts are great. I have also thought that one should consider some way to coordinate internationally and within the EU. Sweden could take the lead in a diplomatic offensive against Iran so that any change takes place and the imprisoned human rights activists, Ahmadreza and others, at least, will be released.
i-f1d3171b23c9d188-720	Madam President, I would like I understand very well that there is impatience and frustration. I, too, would like to see faster progress. But we have a broad dialogue. We believe that this is the best thing for these cases. As far as consular cases and human rights are concerned, this is in no way subordinate to dialogue on other issues. I would like to point out that the dialogue with Iran, as we see it, is also important in order to be able to move forward on the case of Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab. It cannot be in their interest that we do not have such a dialogue. As far as Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab are concerned, the government is proactive. We are clear and consistent, and we communicate about the issues in a way that we believe should not harm the cases. When we work together within multilateral institutions, as Amineh Kakabaveh says she wants us to do, we do so in the European Union and in the United Nations. We can get more weight if they help in these cases. They have clearly communicated that they are strong in this and that we are applying restrictive measures, that is, sanctions, in relation to human rights violations in Iran. Madam President, I would like I take very seriously the situation of Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab. Our efforts for them continue unabated. The Swedish Government continues to apply a method that we consider to be the best way to solve the problems. It is based on intergovernmental contacts and clear messages that are presented in such a way that best benefits the individual case and the individual person.
