i-bc10df96875463e4-2	Madam President, I would like At a time when the threats to Sweden are becoming more and more serious and find new forms, we as a society must not just keep up with the development of our protection; we should rather be one step ahead of those who do not want us well, those who want to destroy the freedom we have built, the democratic rule of law we defend and the human rights we defend. It may sound loud, but it's still true. Defence intelligence is part of the defence of Sweden and serves only one purpose. It is to defend Sweden as a nation, preserve our way of life and secure our democracy. Sometimes, in the debate, it may sound like the state would do nothing but monitor us citizens just because you can and you want to. That is certainly not the case. As regards intelligence in general and defence intelligence in particular, of course we can do a lot ourselves, for example, have effective authorities with intelligence capabilities. We can do as we do now: build our total defence stronger, cooperate with like-minded countries and be at the forefront of technology in how we handle and obtain information. Defence intelligence means, of course, that personal data will be processed, but when this happens the privacy of the individual will be respected. Of course, it should not be used when it is not justified. With regard to the latter point of departure, I think we are very much in agreement. Technology in the field of defence intelligence is rapidly evolving, and the rules of the game are constantly changing. That is why our legislation must also follow. That is precisely what the report is about, to adapt so that we can continue to defend our way of life and Sweden as a nation in an increasingly uncertain world. Madam President, I would like We Moderates are largely in agreement with the government on this matter. I am therefore not going to dwell much more on the content of the proposal. I shall, however, highlight the elements with which we moderates would have liked the committee to have supplemented the report. The first thing I think about is the signal reconnaissance teams, which are now more than ten years old. When it was introduced it was very controversial, but today I think that more and more people realise that it was an absolutely necessary decision to provide Sweden with good intelligence. Nevertheless, we believe that there is a need to make a broader review of the law. New technologies, new threats and new players have been added since the adoption of the Act. The review should look at a number of things, including how we ensure the personal integrity of this new landscape in general and perhaps more specifically linked to the international collaborations we have today and will continue to have. Personal integrity is important, and it must be protected. There are reasonable areas to be considered here. Another important part of the review that we would like to see is to look at which authorities can focus signal intelligence. Today, there are a few authorities. However, MSB, for example, is an authority that could also be able to focus signal intelligence. This also applies to the new psychological defence authority. It should also be reviewed if it is to be possible to search for foreign citizens where both parties are in Sweden. It is all about strengthening Sweden's opportunities for good intelligence while taking personal privacy into account. We believe, as we have written in our reservation, that this review should be carried out as a matter of urgency, also in view of the international situation. The second part we have highlighted together with other parties concerns international cooperation in the field of defence intelligence and how it will continue to develop, as is also mentioned in the report. What is proposed in the report will help to make it both easier and perhaps more developed. We believe that it is very important to address this aspect and put it under democratic control and transparency. The Government comes to Parliament every year and reports privacy protection in signal reconnaissance. In this respect, we believe that it is possible for the government to add a specific report that is clear in terms of international cooperation. Madam President, I would like It is important for Sweden and the authorities responsible for intelligence collection that you get the best possible conditions to do your job. That is why we support the proposal in the report, adding the reservations we have. I only support reservation 6.
i-bc10df96875463e4-14	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that the Center Party is fully aware of and is concerned about the fact that Sweden is facing a changed security situation with a broad and comprehensive threat picture. It is against the background that an armed attack cannot be ruled out as the Center Party has been involved in recent years in ensuring that the upsurge of capabilities required by a changed security policy situation is ensured by the implementation of the whole of the Defence Committee's report Värnkraft and the total defence bill 2021-2025. That's why the defense has got more money. The Center Party has, only between 2015 and 2018 as part of the Swedish Defence Group consisting of Government One, the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats during part of the period and then as a cooperation party to the government together with the Liberals between 2019 and 2021, played a crucial role in ensuring these reinforcements. The increase in the capacity of the defence is necessary and important. Now the decisions taken need to be implemented in the coming years. Madam President, I would like Sweden deserves and is worth a strong and robust total defence, a defence that can protect our country, our democracy, our peace and freedom and those of us who live here. But it should also be a defense that can help with peace and security in the world. Sweden has on a couple of occasions been the victim of terrorist attacks. The threat of intelligence is on the increase. And foreign power is active on Swedish territory, including through recruitment attempts by Swedish citizens, to obtain information about companies, people, vulnerabilities in society and total defence. In September this year, for the first time in decades, a Swedish man was convicted of espionage. And as late as Friday, two people were arrested suspected of serious espionage. Those who do not want Sweden well are everywhere. We must never be lulled into a false security that the intelligence collection from foreign power is not taking place here and now. Both the trials and the pick-up are going on with full force. Madam President, I would like Much of the security policy deteriorated the situation in our neighbourhood stems from Russian aggression towards its neighbours. But we also see that China is speaking with an increasingly clear language of power against other countries, but also against companies, debaters and politicians at local, regional and national level, for example. In the Arctic, we see that climate change contributes to security policy instability as both Russia and China and the United States increase their military presence. This affects our Arctic and Nordic countries. It's in our neighborhood this is going on. Russia is also armed militarily and has proved willing to use its military capability against its neighbours in a way that has undermined the entire European security regime. We have seen and we see it in Georgia and Ukraine. Russian military presence is consistent with developments in South Ossetia as well as Abkhazia, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. Russia's occupation and illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula must cease. The policy of sanctions against Russia must continue as long as Russia's occupation of Crimea persists. Russian activity and military presence in Belarus have already been strengthened in the past, especially since the joint military exercise Zapad earlier this autumn. In the media reporting we have been reached by unusually large movements of troops and equipment near the border with Ukraine and Belarus, and Russian aircraft have made reconnaissance flights in Belarus. Sweden must therefore clearly continue to stand up for and protect the European security regime and the liberal world order that has created peace and stability in our part of the world. The threat of military violence is not the only method used by Russia. Through propaganda, corruption and hybrid warfare, Russia is also trying to influence the elections and democratic integrity of other countries. By seeking such a split both between different groups within individual countries and between different countries, they try to achieve strategic benefits. Cyber attacks, money laundering and strategic takeovers are other methods they use to gain influence. Authoritarian leaders do not even hesitate to lure migrants to Belarus and use these people as pawns in a ruthless game to pressure individual EU countries and cohesion within the EU. Madam President, I would like Security threats have changed and worsened since the entry into force of the Signal Search Act, which has given rise to the need and the need for a review of today's signal reconnaissance teams. International intelligence cooperation is crucial for obtaining information to detect and prevent various threats to Sweden. In the negotiations with the government on the total defence bill, we agreed that a review of the signal intelligence law should be carried out to ensure that, taking into account the development of the world and the needs of the total defence, the legislation provides effective and effective support for Swedish foreign, security and defence policy while continuing to take into account the personal integrity of individuals. When the government now introduces a new legislation for personal data at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, and changes to the Swedish Defence Intelligence Act, which concerns, among other things, FRA's international cooperation, we in the Center Party believe that the government begins at the wrong end. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that we, as a state, cannot and should not ignore the fact that the European Court of Human Rights, in its large composition, in a judgment against Sweden just six months ago, concluded that the deficiencies in the Swedish Signals Act meant that adequate procedural safeguards for the rights of individuals were lacking. The European Court of Human Rights considers that national security certainly justifies that systems for mass surveillance of citizens' communications, such as signalling, can be a useful tool for identifying and exposing external threats to a country. International actors constantly have new methods to avoid being discovered on different communication platforms. This, according to the European Court of Human Rights, creates a great deal of room for interpretation for States in relation to Article 8 and the right to the protection of private and family life in this respect. However, the Court also held that due to the continuing change in the communication climate, measures need to be taken to ensure that monitoring is adapted to the risk of abuse and the need for national security. According to the Court of Justice, so-called end-to-end protection is required, which includes assessments of the merits of each individual step of the monitoring carried out. In addition, independent supervision by the supervising authority is required. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that these requirements must be met in order for legislation and monitoring to be compatible with the ECHR. The Court considers that Sweden had largely taken the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the ECHR. However, among the shortcomings that the court struck were such that the FRA Act does not provide sufficient protection for personal privacy when Sweden shares data with foreign partners and that there is no effective control of FRA's activities. The Court therefore considers that there are serious shortcomings and that Swedish law is now unable to guarantee legal certainty. The Center Party considers that the government of the present bill has not sufficiently returned to how it intends to strengthen the protection of privacy in the light of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. It is remarkable that the proposed amendments are now being taken forward, not least when it is intended to extend the division with other States. This had to be there first. You just have to start at the right end. With this in mind, Madam President, I would like to support the Center Party's reservation 1 in paragraph 1.
i-bc10df96875463e4-29	Madam President, I would like Hello to all of you who are watching at home! At the end of spring 2008, a very intense debate on privacy issues was taking place in Sweden when the so-called FRA Act was presented by the then bourgeois government. The debate was intense both here in Parliament and outside. The Left Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, voted against the law on several occasions, but it was finally voted through by a very small margin. Madam President, I would like Even if the Left Party sees that we are living in a more vulnerable society where many different threats are being posed against us, we will also today be voting against the changes that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government is now proposing. There are threats to Sweden. We are all aware of that. The Left Party believes that the threats that are being posed to us are primarily civilian. We have climate change, which risks completely changing living conditions in many parts of the earth. We have pandemics, which we have painfully become aware of over the last one and a half years. We have cyber attacks against a more digitised society that depends on many different systems working. The Left Party does not in any way want to make it difficult for law enforcement authorities to investigate and prosecute crimes, but we are anxious that there is a regulatory framework that provides good protection for the security of Sweden and its citizens. At the same time, however, in the important work of protecting ourselves from threats, we must protect ourselves from ourselves. We must maintain strong protection for the integrity and privacy of our own people. The Left Party therefore considers that the changes proposed in the Act on Signalling in Defence Intelligence should be rejected. Madam President, I would like The Left Party defends basic democratic values such as the rule of law and the protection of personal integrity. Technological developments and the increasing potential for private data collection pose a major challenge. Today it is possible to collect a large amount of sensitive data showing where people are and what procedures they have. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the protection of personal privacy is constantly being developed in line with the increase in digitalisation. We are very concerned about developments since the beginning of the 21st century, which have led us today to move towards a surveillance society. Questions of personal integrity and human rights have to stand back time and again. Any restriction has been justified on the basis of apparent good intentions such as more effective law enforcement and a general increase in the protection of citizens. All in all, however, the more stringent laws of the last two decades in terms of camera surveillance, secret coercive measures, signal reconnaissance, foreign control and measures to prevent terrorism appear to be ominous. Any restriction accepted tends to pave the way for even more intervention measures. Arguments such as the fact that a person with a clear conscience has nothing to fear risk becoming watered down, the more restrictions on personal integrity that are accepted. The long-term consequences for the social climate and democracy are difficult to grasp. Madam President, I would like This matter has been hidden under a heading that is indecent, the processing of personal data at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Institute. Within the bill is the proposal for foreign intelligence and security services to be granted direct access to personal data at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency. The Government proposes that signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities may take place in cases that are not directed against Sweden or matters related to Swedish interests if this is necessary for cooperation on intelligence issues with other countries or international organisations. This is the Left Party against. We do not want other countries to be able to have direct access to personal data at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency. That means too much restrictions on personal integrity, and that is something that we cannot justify. The Left Party is also opposed to the Government's proposal that the new Act on Signaling in Defence Intelligence should include a new provision that means that signal intelligence can also take place against phenomena that are not directed against Sweden or affect Swedish interests. We see great risks in Sweden being able to conduct intelligence activities against a country on behalf of another country through the Swedish Defence Radio Institute without there being an immediate Swedish interest in this intelligence activity. This is a question of Sweden's independence, something that is very important for the Left Party. Over the past year there have been reports that the United States, with the help of Denmark, has been spying on leading politicians and senior officials in Sweden. It has raised very strong criticism here in the Swedish parliament, and it has still not been clarified how this has been done. The Government's proposal in the bill risks opening up the possibility that Sweden will end up in a similar situation as Denmark is in now, i.e. that we will help a country conduct signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities without it affecting national interests. Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that Parliament's transparency in the work of the Defence Radio Institute in this area is not good enough. It is important that the Riksdag is given transparency and adequate information in order for democratic decisions on the signalling authority and its activities to be taken. Confidentiality is important, but the Left Party believes that a more clear balance between the confidentiality of the authorities and the transparency of the Riksdag should be developed. We therefore believe that the government should come back with proposals on how to increase parliamentary control and transparency regarding intelligence activities. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-bc10df96875463e4-42	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Defence Committee's report number 2, Processing of personal data at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Defence Radio Institute. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7, which concerns the scrutiny and control of intelligence activities. As has already been said here, we are now living in a tougher security policy environment with a deteriorating security policy situation. As other speakers have said, we see it in our neighbourhood. We see it in Ukraine, where there is a war at the moment. There are a large number of Russian soldiers on the border there. Bombers are allowed to fly along the border with Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine. Even in the Baltic Sea we see a tougher security policy situation. We can remind you, Madam President, of the recent Zapad exercise. It was the biggest exercise in 40 years, and Russia had 200,000 soldiers in place. In parallel with this, we also see that the threat from cyber attacks is increasing, something that Swedish authorities point to. A few years ago, the FRA went out and said there were 10,000 cyber attacks per month of foreign power against Sweden. Now the number has not been specified, but it is said that the attacks are more, larger and more extensive. This means that we in Sweden need to strengthen our protection, both the military and the civilian. This applies not least to what this case is about, namely the FRA's possibilities for intelligence, which is an important part of the Swedish defence. Like the Moderates, we in the Christian Democrats are essentially in agreement with the government with regard to these tasks and changes in the law, which we believe provide a reasonable balance between personal integrity and the needs that exist. We can remind you of the terrorist attack here at Drottninggatan 2017, where five people died. This is an example of how we need international cooperation in order to prevent threats to Sweden. It is also an example of why it is so important that this legislation is put in place so that the FRA can operate effectively. Having said that, we need a broad review of the law on signal reconnaissance, because the law has ten years on its neck. A holistic approach is needed regarding which actors should be able to focus signal intelligence in the future. Therefore, an investigation needs to be set up in order to provide the best possible basis on the matter. With regard to the review and control of intelligence activities, we want a specific review to be presented in a specific letter.
i-HgUwvsPemiE5qB9StVD1MF	Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The international situation has deteriorated, and military activity in the immediate region has increased over time. We are in a security policy environment where we face a number of major challenges. These include state actors with an interest in spying on Sweden. It's about cyberattacks, terrorism and criminal gangs. The antagonistic threat picture is broad with global connections. A good defence intelligence capability is therefore a prerequisite for Sweden's ability to conduct an independent and active foreign, defence and security policy. It is about the identification of external threats to our country. Defence intelligence is important for early warning, for the development of the war organization, for the development of capabilities to meet different types of threats to the country in an effective way and for the government to be able to make timely decisions on, for example, preparedness-enhancing measures. Of the nature of the threats at global level, there is also a need for a developed and more effective national and international interaction between security and intelligence authorities. In accordance with what the Government stated in the Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025, the defence intelligence capability should be strengthened and developed. Madam President, I would like In the bill before the House today, the Government proposes two new laws on personal data processing at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency. The proposal is part of the major data protection reform that has been carried out in Sweden in connection with the creation of the EU Data Protection Regulation. The new laws are proposed to replace the current special laws of the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency regarding personal data processing from 2007. The Government also proposes some clarifying changes to the Act on Signalling in Defence Intelligence. The proposals are based on two study reports that have been referred to. The proposal provides greater clarity, allows for more effective cooperation between authorities in Sweden and abroad and also enables greater privacy protection for the individual. The balance between privacy protection and efficiency permeates the new laws. The new law for the Swedish Armed Forces is proposed to apply to all processing of personal data in the agency's activities related to Sweden's defence and security. This law will thus be largely comprehensive for the Swedish Armed Forces' processing of personal data. The new law for the Defence Radio Institution is proposed to apply to the processing of personal data within the Agency's defence intelligence, development and information security activities. The new laws on the processing of personal data protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons while ensuring that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Armed Forces Radio Institute can process and exchange personal data with other actors in an effective manner. The laws are to be applied instead of the EU Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act. Madam President, I would like In the general debate, a number of myths have been expressed in connection with the government proposal. I would like to make it clear today what is going on in this area. First of all, it has been claimed that cooperation with the intelligence services of other countries will now enable foreign intelligence services to order signal reconnaissance by the Armed Forces Radio Institute. This is not true. It is well known that no country alone can obtain a complete intelligence base in support of its foreign, security and defence policy or for the identification of external threats to the country. Exchange of intelligence and cooperation on methodology are therefore key elements in all defence intelligence activities and not least in the Swedish Defence Radio Institute's signal intelligence activities. According to the Government's proposal, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency shall be given a signal span according to the existing purposes set out in the Act – if necessary to carry out international cooperation in the field of defence intelligence – even if the phenomena are not directed against Sweden or Swedish interests. According to the proposal, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency can, for example, obtain signals for the purpose of obtaining information relating to international terrorism or foreign power, but where the information is not primarily of Swedish interest. Indeed, although the intelligence needs of cooperating countries often coincide at a global level, individual needs may differ in terms of detail. One such example is the international terrorism that poses a significant threat to many countries, but where a particular country may have a particular interest in specific cells within international terrorist groups that are deemed to pose a threat to its own country or to its own interests. Madam President, I would like Secondly, it has been claimed that the proposal means that the Swedish Defence Radio Institute can broadcast on behalf of another state without any connection to Swedish security or Swedish security interests. This is not true. The proposal means that the Swedish Defence Radio Agency may, under certain conditions, monitor events that do not concern Sweden or Swedish interests if this is necessary for international cooperation on intelligence issues in which the Swedish Defence Radio Agency participates. These are not least collaborations that, from the Swedish perspective, ultimately aim to expand and develop the Swedish defence intelligence capability. It is of course of Swedish security interest that this type of intelligence cooperation can be carried out. The authorities carrying out defence intelligence activities may cooperate in intelligence matters with other countries and international organisations only on condition that the purpose of the cooperation is to serve the Swedish government and the Swedish total defence. The information provided by the authorities to other countries and international organisations must not be detrimental to Swedish interests. This is the case under the current regulation, and it continues to apply with the new regulation. I would like to stress clearly that there is no room for unconditional elements in international cooperation in defence intelligence activities. The allegations that the proposed legislative changes would mean that the Defence Radio Institution would become some kind of ordering centre for foreign intelligence authorities are totally unfounded and incorrect. In order for the Swedish Defence Radio Agency to be able to conduct signal reconnaissance under the provision, in addition to the fact that it must be a matter of foreign circumstances, a direction from the government as well as the authorisation of the Swedish Defence Intelligence Court. In addition, the activities, including international cooperation, are under the control of the State for Defence Intelligence, Siun. Madam President, I would like Thirdly, it has been claimed that the proposal gives foreign intelligence services direct access to cables through Sweden. This is directly wrong. With regard to the question of direct access for foreign authorities, I would particularly like to point out that it has no connection with the proposal of the bill to amend the law on signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities relating to signal intelligence in international cooperation. Direct access refers to personal data processing within the framework of the Swedish Defence Radio Institute's processing and analysis processes of collected signals. There may be situations where an acute terrorist threat, or any other threat, can be averted through cooperation between Swedish and foreign authorities or organisations and where direct access can be of great importance to facilitate joint processing and analysis of the available information. The draft law allows the Defence Radio Agency to allow a partner to directly access certain information under certain conditions but does not automatically do so. The detailed conditions shall be laid down in law, regulation or decision of the Government. In addition, under the current provisions on confidentiality, security and data protection, the defence radio institution must assess whether direct access should be granted to a foreign partner. I would like to stress that direct access does not in any way mean that a foreign partner will have free access to Swedish cables or to all the collected data of the Defence Radio Institute. All claims about something else are completely wrong. The proposal on direct access is aimed at enabling more efficient processing and analysis cooperation in certain specific situations, taking into account, of course, the relevant provisions on the protection of the defence radio institution's activities and the privacy of the individual. Madam President, I would like Fourthly, it has been claimed that there is a lack of scrutiny and control of FRA's activities. This is not true either. Signal intelligence at FRA and FRA's processing of personal data is continuously reviewed by Siun, the State's inspection for defence intelligence activities. Siun has full insight into FRA's activities, and regular reviews are carried out, including of the FRA's international cooperation. The processing of personal data at the FRA is reviewed by the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the former Swedish Data Protection Authority. There is also a Privacy Council that is constantly transparent about the measures taken by the FRA to ensure privacy. Any pick-up by signal reconnaissance requires permission from the Defence Intelligence Court, and otherwise the pick-up may not take place. Madam President, I would like With regard to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, I would also like to clarify what the judgment contained. In its judgment in the Centre for Justice against Sweden, on 25 May this year, the Court found that the Swedish signalling legislation is essentially compatible with the requirements imposed by the Court. The Court finds that signalling activities in defence intelligence activities are not in themselves contrary to the ECHR and, in particular, points out in its judgment that Swedish legislation contains clear rules on the purposes for which signalling is justified and on how the procedure is conducted. The European Court of Human Rights identifies some shortcomings in the Swedish system. One of the shortcomings will be addressed by introducing a requirement for the FRA to analyse and assess whether a foreign recipient of the personal data offers adequate protection for them in the new Act on the Processing of Personal Data at the Defence Radio Institution. This is a clarification of the regime previously applied by the FRA. In accordance with what the Government has announced in the Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025 and also in the current bill, the Government considers that a special investigator should be given the task of carrying out a review of the law on signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities. Such a review will address the other views of the European Court of Human Rights. We are now taking important measures for Swedish defence operations and therefore for Sweden. We must ask ourselves whether, as a democracy, we have the right to defend ourselves or not. It is about our being able to cooperate with other democratic nations to build a resistance to antagonistic threats to our open and free societies. It is also about strengthening the resilience of democracy in Sweden. The government has announced that it will return with other elements related to constitutions after the legislative review. This does not mean that there is any reason to allow all or part of the proposal to remain open until such a review is carried out. It is important that the Swedish Defence Radio Agency and the Swedish Armed Forces already receive modern personal data regulation and that the necessary clarifications are made in the Swedish Defence Radio Agency's international collaborations. This is basically about Sweden and Swedish interests.
i-bc10df96875463e4-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech. It is always interesting when critics of legislation hear their criticisms interpreted by those who are in favour of legislation. I think that those of us who are critical see the description that the honourable Member made as somewhat enlarged. I would like to ask the Social Democrats how you view the criticisms and concerns that we are expressing regarding, for example, the events that we saw in Denmark and about which we have talked a lot. There, signal reconnaissance from one country took place through another against a third country. Based on this rather complicated law we interpret it as that there is a possible risk that this could happen here in Sweden as well. I would therefore like to ask how the Social Democrats view this criticism.
i-bc10df96875463e4-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for the questions! I would really like to start at the end that this is another way of strengthening control over the activities of, among other things, the Defence Radio Institute. It is clear from both the bill and the committee's considerations that personal integrity is extremely important and should be taken seriously. It is also pointed out that it is Sweden that has the mandate of which tasks are shared with which nations. Since for some years now I have had a reasonable understanding of how the work is done in the relevant authorities, I can say for myself that I feel safe with the legislation we have and with the transparency and control that we have of the activities. I therefore do not see these fears in the same way as Hanna Gunnarsson might do.
i-bc10df96875463e4-80	Madam President, I would like It is in a way nice to hear that the Social Democrats do not see such fears. However, we know that this has happened in the near future in our geographical proximity, in a country that is very similar to ours. I am not going to stand here and demand some sort of guarantee from the honourable Member, because I think that is impossible – and that is just stupid to do. International cooperation is a rewarding and a taking. Of course, this is Sweden's mandate, because it is our legislation and our authorities. But from the Left side we see this as a rather large extension of the possibilities to conduct signal reconnaissance and interception. We do not feel as confident as the government does that this is not actually in danger of being used incorrectly. I think we're heading in the wrong direction. But I hope that the thoughts and feelings of the Socialist Member will then apply so that we do not end up in the situations in which Denmark, for example, has been in.
i-bc10df96875463e4-84	Madam President and Mrs Hanna Gunnarsson! Both Hanna Gunnarsson and I note that it was in Denmark that it happened. It wasn't in Sweden that it happened. It shows that if this happens it will also be noticed, in Denmark or elsewhere. In view of what has happened in Denmark, it is undeniably the case that the light also falls on Swedish authorities on these issues. I believe that it will be extremely attentive to whether any part of the organisations is heading in the wrong direction and, if so, it will sound the alarm.
i-bc10df96875463e4-86	Madam President, I would like I have heard ClasGöran Carlsson say that the balance between national security and the protection of privacy permeates the government's product. Those are strong words, I have to say! In the Center Party we are very critical of this because the proposals are very far-reaching. We believe that there is a lack of analysis of needs, methods, boundaries, risks and the whole of privacy protection. Such would have had to be done reasonably. One cannot pretend that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights has not occurred. That's why this is going to be very strange. It is not just the Center Party that questions whether the balance is balanced. We have a conviction against Sweden, and it is not every week that Sweden is convicted in the European Court of Human Rights when it comes to fundamental rights and freedoms. I would therefore like to put two questions to the honourable Member: one can, of course, interpret ClasGöran Carlsson's involvement here as representing the government parties. When will the review of the Signal Scanning Act be completed? When does the government intend to return to Parliament with such a review? That is the first thing I would like answers to. The second thing I would like to problematise is the honourable Member's speech on how to do and how to do it, that is to say, the conditions under which the Defence Radio Agency may have a focus on carrying out signal reconnaissance for foreign authorities. That is to put a great deal of responsibility on the part of the state on the part of an authority. We have been critical of this in Parliament when it comes to pandemic management – that the government sits in the back seat and lets the authorities drive. Now we see another such order. It is nice that ClasGöran Carlsson feels comfortable and safe with today's order. But not only does the Centre Party feel insecure, but so does the European Court of Human Rights. I would therefore like to hear how this is as unproblematic as the honourable Member has allowed to understand from here the speaker's seat.
i-QHLLeERuwyhpBgeFF2rspA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Courage, for the questions! I'll start with the simpler of them: when will a review of the signal reconnaissance teams come? The Government has announced its arrival during the period 2021 – 2025. My own assessment, following contacts with the Government Office, is that it will probably come in the first part of the period, i.e. in the near future. That's the answer to the question of when. When it comes to the second part of Linda Modig's question, it should be borne in mind that this is basically a bill that was coming forward at the same time as the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights was decided at the end of May. In fact, the case is not linked to the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in May, but is more concerned with the fact that one or more of the views of the European Court of Human Rights were taken into consideration on this occasion. Sweden also says that the whole review comes in the announced review, that is, the large and thorough analysis of the signal intelligence teams and its effects. I think it is going to be a little crazy if you simply link the bill with the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights at the end of May, because that is not the process under the way forward.
i-bc10df96875463e4-98	Madam President, I would like It is fairly normal for a government to have a global analysis. If you have a plan for your proposals and go on such an awesome bang as this may be said to be against Sweden, you may have to stop and reflect on it. It is not an easy criticism that the European Court of Human Rights is launching. It is noted that there is a lack of privacy when Sweden shares data with foreign partners. There is no effective control of the FRA's activities. The Center Party has never claimed that there is no control of the FRA. Of course there is one, but let us be humble in view of the fact that the European Court of Human Rights considers it not sufficiently effective. It is also the case that, as colleagues here have pointed out, the teams of signal reconnaissance have a number of years on their necks. So it is no surprise that there is a need to review it. The reasonable starting point is to ensure the balance between personal integrity and the need to strengthen national security. This must go hand in hand; it is quite clear in a liberal democracy. That is why it is very worrying to have the train order that the government is now implementing with the support of M and KD. It's throwing in the yeast after the dough. First, we may compromise the privacy of individuals, and then we will come afterwards and strengthen it. That is what the Center Party is critical of. We are concerned that these are very far-reaching proposals. We're concerned that this much responsibility is being squeezed down on an individual authority-- let alone it's very competent. The whole train order feels backwards. We wish that respect for personal integrity had been valued higher. If Sweden as a state will continue to ignore it, we will be going on more mines and rejections in European law, where there is a completely different view of the balance between private privacy and the need for national security, for example.
i-bc10df96875463e4-104	Madam President, I would like Linda Modig is guilty of a misdescription. Not all responsibility is placed on a single authority in this case. It requires the direction of the government. Permission is required in the Defence Intelligence Court. You have the authority that handles the direction and permits and then conducts its activities, and you have an after-control, among other things, of Siun, the State's inspection for the defence intelligence activities. It is not the case that all power and authority are placed in the Defence Radio Institute. There is a functioning control system. Among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office concluded a number of years ago in its review that this system constituted a functioning control of signal intelligence activities. Again, I feel confident with the system that we have built up, but also share the view that there is a need for a complete review of the signal reconnaissance teams. It is announced by the government and will probably be in the next year.
i-bc10df96875463e4-107	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats welcome the proposal for two new laws on the processing of personal data at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Institute. It is positive that the new laws that come into being are adapted to a strengthened security situation and the needs of different authorities to be able to meet this new situation. At the same time, it is of course very important to safeguard personal integrity in these contexts and carefully consider what new proposals are to be adopted in this area. On the basis of the bill, we can conclude that these considerations have been made. Madam President, I would like The strongest argument for approving the bill is the change in the world situation and the demands this places on intelligence and security operations. The international situation has deteriorated considerably in recent years, and it looks as though these developments will unfortunately continue. This increases the requirements of the intelligence services in order to make an effective contribution to Swedish security. During this work, there is a need to process personal data in a variety of areas. Already today, a large number of personal data are processed by the Swedish Armed Forces and the FRA, and there is no reason to believe that these needs will be reduced when this House agrees on continued efforts in total defence. Another very important aspect of this issue is the intelligence cooperation that Sweden has with various partners. There is also a great deal of agreement on this issue on the importance of a variety of defence cooperation and a willingness to develop them. There are, of course, different views on the direction and exactly how far these cooperations will develop, but there is no doubt that there is a need for international cooperation. These international collaborations are no less important in the sharpened world situation that we are now seeing. International cooperation also has a very important component of intelligence cooperation. Cooperation in the field of intelligence cannot, for obvious reasons, be discussed in detail in this House, nor can it be seen in many contexts the direct results. However, there can be little doubt that cooperation in the intelligence sphere has important results for Sweden's security. Historically, there are examples of how these collaborations have contributed to Sweden's security, and there is no reason to believe that the situation would have changed today. It is therefore welcome that the current proposals provide the opportunity to exchange personal data effectively with other actors and thereby strengthen intelligence cooperation with our partners. It is also in the proposal that the recipient of this data should ensure the protection of the data. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to remind you that the current proposal provides the opportunity for the relevant authorities to act within a new framework and that this framework provides the opportunity and confidence for the authorities to act. We have confidence that both the Swedish Armed Forces and the FRA will act discreetly when it comes to handling personal data, and we also have confidence that there are reviewers who have the opportunity to follow up on errors. We think it is important for this House to give this confidence to those who have the task of ultimately working for Sweden's security.
i-bc10df96875463e4-115	Madam President, I would like Our personal integrity is important to protect, and it is important that we can trust that it is protected. It is now surrounded by laws, rules, regulations, conventions and other provisions governing protection. We have the form of government, the European Convention, the Council of Europe's Data Protection Convention, the EU Charter, the EU Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act. It is crucial for a democratic society to ensure that there is clarity about the maintenance of our personal integrity. Today, we are debating the Government's proposal for a law on the processing of personal data at the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, as well as the law amending the law on signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities. Since 25 May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation forms the basis for general personal data processing within the EU. The General Data Protection Regulation is directly applicable in all EU Member States, but the processing of personal data in activities not covered by EU law, such as defence and national security, is excluded. At the same time as the EU Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act entered into force in 2018, the so-called Personal Data Act was repealed. However, in accordance with the transitional provisions of the Data Protection Act, the Personal Data Act has continued to apply to activities of the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency that are not covered by Union law. Now the Government proposes laws that replace the law on the processing of personal data in the Swedish Armed Forces' intelligence and security services and at the Swedish Defence Radio Agency. The proposed laws ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Armed Forces Radio Institute can process and exchange personal data with other actors in an effective manner, while protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons. The new laws will apply instead of the EU Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act. Both laws thus aim to protect individuals against violations of their personal integrity. Madam President, I would like International cooperation in the field of defence and security has increased, and technological developments have led to the necessary level of protection of personal data, which has been difficult to achieve in the past, being now achievable. A balance has been struck between the protection of privacy and the strong defence and security interests that justify the effective participation of the relevant authorities in international cooperation. Where cooperation largely requires urgency and aims to jointly follow a course of action, it may prove necessary to make information available through direct access to the partner. Such a situation could arise, for example, in the face of an imminent terrorist attack. The extensive supervision and review requirements that are already in force and continue to apply to the processing of personal data covered by the proposed legislation are central to the protection of the privacy of the individual. We have a strong protection of personal integrity, and we shall have it. As long as the laws we have are complied with, and from what we see from the enforcement authorities it works well today. Madam President, I would like The security situation and developments in Sweden and the rest of the world today mean that the requirements for Sweden's ability to protect its security are tightened. This applies not least in the field of defence intelligence activities, where in many cases international collaboration is absolutely necessary for the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency to be able to solve their tasks. With regard to the Government's proposal to provide the Swedish Defence Radio Agency with extended possibilities for signal intelligence within the framework of the Agency's international cooperation in defence intelligence activities, the overall aim is to ensure that Sweden receives information that is simply necessary for Sweden's security. Signal reconnaissance is an important part of Sweden's defence intelligence activities and helps to provide the government with a basis for an independent Swedish foreign, security and defence policy and to provide other authorities with intelligence about foreign conditions in order to fulfil their tasks. The broader threat picture that exists against Sweden today entails the need to strengthen collaboration between the security and intelligence services in order to ensure access to a good common understanding of the situation across the threat scale. International cooperation in the field of intelligence is of fundamental importance for Swedish intelligence capabilities and of crucial importance for Swedish foreign, security and defence policy. In order to ensure that Sweden will receive such information as it needs, it is necessary for the Swedish Defence Radio Agency to maintain collaborations regarding the collection, processing, analysis and technology as well as the exchange of intelligence. Finally – yes, the European Court of Human Rights has pointed out shortcomings in the Swedish regulation of signal reconnaissance. Sweden will of course comply with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in the cases in which Sweden is party. An analysis of the decision has been started at the Government Office. In the forthcoming review of the law on signalling in defence intelligence activities, I am confident that these shortcomings will be addressed and addressed. On the basis of these considerations, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-bc10df96875463e4-128	Madam President, I would like I was waiting with excitement for some representative of the government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party to mention at least something about the reservations that have actually existed. It did not come in any speech. Perhaps answers to the Center Party's questions came. As I said in my speech, we support this proposal, with a number of proposals that we see as improvements. We think it would have been appropriate to raise this point, but then we will take it here instead, Madam President. I would like to address Elisabeth Falkhaven and ask her a question. I mentioned that we are calling for the separation of international cooperation in order to strengthen democratic transparency. We think that this should be clearly stated in letter 70, which is sent annually to Parliament. I would like to hear how Elisabeth Falkhaven views this. Is that something to be accommodated? The second part deals with the possibility for other authorities to focus signal intelligence than the current few who have this possibility. I mentioned MSB and the new psychological defence authority as an example. It would be very interesting to hear how the government parties view these issues because they were not addressed in any of the speeches.
i-bc10df96875463e4-131	Madam President, I would like We will simply have to look at these reservations, which I have taken note of with great interest. We'll have to look at this in the review that's going to be done if it's possible to get any of your thoughts into this. It's not quite finished yet, so let's take a look at that.
i-bc10df96875463e4-132	Madam President, I would like This law replaces the FRA law, which has existed for quite some time – as we said earlier for over ten years. At the time, the Green Party was highly critical. I note that the Green Party is now keenly invigorated. The honourable Member will be happy to tell you how this conclusion has been reached later on. It is a good thing to look at the matter in the investigation, but a little more proactive as a government and a government party must be. The new authority will start in the near future, we hope. If we are to provide the best possible conditions to work, one cannot wait for an investigation that may come during the period 2021 – 2025. Then it does not get the best possible conditions. A little more proactive work would therefore like to be seen from the government's side.
i-bc10df96875463e4-134	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the questions. When it comes to being proactive, we have, I think, been in this bill. Then we'll have to wait for the investigation. Furthermore, others in the Green Party have previously felt that it is very worrying when you interfere with personal integrity, and we still think so. But we are confident about what the arrangement looks like today.
i-bc10df96875463e4-135	Madam President, I would like On 19 March this year ClasGöran Carlsson sat on Siun's board and responded to a referral regarding the proposals that the House is now going to consider. The summary conclusion of Siun on that occasion was that no firm conclusion could be reached as to how this proposal affects personal privacy. Mr Carlsson has sounded a little different during this debate in this House, Madam President. The signal reconnaissance teams now have eight different purposes for which to decide on signal reconnaissance. All these purposes are currently linked to Sweden or Sweden's security interests. The new and completely unique now is a ninth point. I agree with Hanna Gunnarsson that the title of this proposal is not quite clear. Perhaps the most fundamental news is that this ninth point now makes it possible to monitor signals without it being linked to Sweden's security or security interests. It is written directly in the Act on the phenomena referred to in paragraphs 1 to 8, but which is not directed against Sweden or Swedish interests. One might wonder why such a point appears now. Peter Hultqvist says that it is essentially about Swedish interests and Swedish security. But why does it say exactly the opposite in the paragraph that it does not relate to Swedish interests or to Sweden? And if Peter Hultqvist is right now and Sweden's security is at the bottom, we would never have needed this ninth point. Madam President, I would like Hanna Gunnarsson was into the revelation that came last spring that Swedish politicians and senior officials had been bugged by Denmark and the NSA in collaboration. Last autumn there was also a similar news about Swedish industry and defence company Saab, which has also been bugged. Signal reconnaissance is an important tool for intelligence. But it is also important that we use it with political and security discretion. Being caught listening to one's closest friends in secret is not only embarrassing but risks deeply and seriously damaging Sweden's relations with other states. Peter Hultqvist has also said that services and services are good in this area. I understand that maybe this is what we're after. But let me conclude, Madam President, by reminding you that there are no kitchen entrances into NATO and mutual defence guarantees. The only way in is the wide gate on the front of the house, where the brass orchestra plays and the cameras roll. Madam President, I would like I request your approval for reservation number three.
