i-6RpMqUWp5pspoQmef1tpap	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Finance Committee's report No 46. The report is based on the policy of the Moderates, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and also the Swedish Democrats for more money for elderly care. The majority in the committee wants to borrow money today to permanently increase government spending. It was precisely that kind of financial irresponsibility in budgetary matters that we said after the 1990s crisis that we would never go back to. But first, the issue. In its first interim report, the Corona Commission pointed to a number of structural deficiencies in the care of the elderly. These are, in most cases, problems that have been known for a long time. That is why we Social Democrats in the budget after budget have prioritised more money for welfare and care. In the autumn budget for 2021, the Government carried out a historic investment in elderly care with a contribution of SEK 4 billion per year. The Government has also presented an old-age care lift aimed at improving staff supply and providing more permanent employment by enabling skills-enhancing measures during working hours for nurses, carers and first-line managers in care for the elderly. The investment totals more than SEK 3.3 billion in 2021. In addition, the Government has provided municipalities and regions with SEK 22.5 billion in general government grants in 2021, of which SEK 12.5 billion is a permanent increase. That is why many municipalities and regions, despite the Corona, went in surplus last year. Elderly care in Sweden needs long-term secure funding in order for us to be able to expand it as more and more people live longer, improve quality and improve working conditions. But is this what is on Parliament's table? Unfortunately, the answer is no. This is not long-term secure funding. Mr President, I would like to The prerequisite for long-term secure financing of welfare is sound public finances. During the 1990s crisis, Sweden learned this the hard way. The budgetary process we have today, which aims to prevent hopeful majorities from weakening state finances, is a legacy of the budget deficit of the 1990s, mass unemployment and running public debt. No more! We said jointly over the block line. The purpose of the current budgetary process is therefore to link expenditure and revenue. If you increase government expenditure, for example for elderly care, it should also be fully financed. This, of course, limits political room for manoeuvre and is intended to prevent temporary majorities from taking decisions on possibly urgent but unfunded reforms. Why, then, can we go with deficits now? At the moment in a recession, the government can go with deficits, above all to save jobs and businesses. Therefore, the crisis measures that we in the government parties, together with the Liberals and the Center Party, have taken and borrowed are also temporary. In the long run, plus and minus have to go together, otherwise the cuts will come as a letter in the mail. You simply cannot temporarily borrow money to increase expenditure permanently. Last year the same unholy alliance initiated changes to the state budget, but then they were financed. We are now moving forward with unfunded initiatives, which are also intended to be implemented for several years to come. It will be interesting to hear how future speakers justify this. How, for example, do the Moderates explain that the budgetary practice that we have jointly complied with in broad agreement since the 1990s has now been abandoned? The only argument I have heard so far is what is known as "whataboutism," but what about the sossies? It refers to the fact that in 2013, the Social Democrats stopped one of the alliance government's tax cuts. But that time the state's finances strengthened. Now they're weakening. It's literally the opposite. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the majority of the committee is now about to vote for an expensive reform without funding is the greatest departure so far from the budgetary practice that has given us one of Europe's strongest public finances. In fact, I get worried when I see how casually it happens on the part of certain parties. Is this what we're going to do in the future? The cost of financial ease of mind can be very high in the form of loss of confidence in the Swedish economy, higher interest rates on mortgages and, by extension, cuts in welfare – just like last time. We actually know how it went. The Moderates, Left Party, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats release the spirit from the bottle, so to speak, without any clear plan for how to push it back into the bottle again. Order and budgetary discipline are easy to tear down but difficult to recreate. It is, as Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has put it, bottomless naive. Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis has demonstrated the importance of strong public finances. If the Social Democratic-led government had not saved in the barns in the good years, we would never have had the opportunities we have today to protect jobs, welfare and businesses. In 2014, we took over a weak economy. The moderate-led government had chosen to prioritise reduced taxes above almost everything else and left behind a large deficit. We turned that trend around. We Social Democrats have equipped the Swedish economy. We have done this not only because it is important in itself but, above all, because we know that it is the basis for a functioning well-being. In this way, we can invest in welfare and education and get more people into work while managing public finances. We can disagree, or we should disagree; it is like the very foundation of democracy. We can have different priorities in the state budget and enjoy different tax rates, reforms and investments. That will continue to be the case. However, we should not disagree on the rules of the game or on the principle that all reforms should be financed. I really want to warn against the path that the majority of the committee has decided to take. We know where that path can lead, and it can go faster than you think. Mr President, I would like to With all this said, the elderly really need more money in the future. But it cannot be financed with good intentions. Without sound public finances, there is in the long run no coverage for the cheques that are printed out. Unfortunately, the design of the proposed initiatives also puts money at risk of not having the intended effect. This has also been made very clear to the committee by, for example, the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. Our assessment is that these problems, which have been pointed out by the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and other stakeholders, remain after the majority of the committee's adjustments. We believe that reinforcements to care for the elderly in 2021 need to be designed in such a way that it can make a difference already this year and that it is therefore difficult with all the details proposed by the majority. Long-term strengthening of care for the elderly is best done in the ordinary budgetary process during the autumn so that the local government sector has reasonable opportunities to change and so that the money can actually have the intended effect. Maybe it's not as good a headline today. But if care for the elderly is important, this is the thing. It will provide much better conditions for better care for the elderly tomorrow.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-27	Mr President, I would like to It has been a very difficult and tough year for many to say the least. Although we are now beginning to see the light in the tunnel when we think of vaccination, we still do not know how long that tunnel is. The crisis is happening right now. The spread of infection is still very high around many places in the country. It's been a tough year for a lot of people. Many have had to pay a high price during the year, Mr President. I'm thinking about the people who work in intensive care. I am thinking of the teachers who have been exposed at school, and of the students, especially the high school students, who may not have met their classmates during almost half of their high school hours. I am also thinking of all those entrepreneurs who are on their knees right now, have mortgaged houses and homes and do not know what it will be like because the support that is promised does not get through. I am thinking of all employees who are no longer employed but have become unemployed and wonder when they can get back to work. And so, Mr President, I think of all those who work in the care of the elderly. It has been an incredibly pressured year for them, with a high risk and concern for infection. But most of all – and this is what the debate today is about – I am thinking of the elderly. The elderly have paid an incredibly high price in this pandemic, in so many ways. Those over 70 have often isolated themselves and have not met children and grandchildren. A lot of people are isolated in solitude-- they live alone and haven't met anyone else. In the country's special accommodation there have been restraining orders for long periods. Loneliness has been brutal. Furthermore, Mr President, many elderly people have died during the pandemic. By the time the Corona Commission presented its report in December, more than 7,000 people had died; now there are almost as many more. The Corona Commission's conclusion was very clear and clear. It was about the slow action of the government leading to a very large spread of infection among the elderly. The introduction of a restraining order and the need for protective equipment were delayed. All this led to a high spread of infection on the country's retirement homes. But what was also evident from the Corona Commission's report was that the pandemic brought to light the structural problems that exist in Swedish elderly care. It highlighted the need for better medical skills and for a more orderly consensus between regions and municipalities – different principals who, together with other actors, will work together. It'll be extra difficult in a crisis. It highlighted the problem of a lack of continuity among staff. Many have temporary and hourly jobs, and this created major problems, especially at the beginning of the pandemic. All these clear problems highlighted by the Corona Commission are the root cause of this debate and the decision to be taken by Parliament today. During this year, problems have been highlighted, and we as a parliament have tried to remedy them all along the way. This is exactly what we are doing now. The Moderates, the Left Party and the Christian Democrats, but also the Swedish Democrats, agree that we are now seriously starting the journey to correct problems in caring for the elderly. What are we doing today, Mr President? We decide on a direction that we, a majority in the Swedish parliament, see needed. It's about money for municipalities to work with the specific medical skills. There are many different things you can do here. You can be sure to attract back nurses who have left the profession, invest in medically responsible doctors and make sure that more nurses can read and become specialist nurses. There are a lot of ways to do this, and that journey begins now. We are also clear that the continuity of staff needs to be improved. Therefore, we have performance-based support to encourage municipalities to work more with permanent employment rather than hourly employment. Finally, this budget of just over 4 billion is also investing in a very important issue, namely housing. You can now apply for support from municipalities and others to build shelters. Mr President, I would like to So we are doing this because the elderly have paid a high price in this crisis. We do it because it is urgent and urgent to start turning the ship. It will take time; this is a first step. The elderly who paid a high price during the pandemic should know that our parties, those of us who have taken the initiative, want to change direction. We all want to do it in the long term. They're the ones who've worked a whole life and gone ahead of us worth it. It is the elderly and fragile of our retirement homes and home care really worth it. We have a responsibility to do this. That is why I am pleased, and I would like to thank both Ulla Andersson and Jakob Forssmed from the Left Party and the Christian Democrats respectively for the constructive discussions. I also thank Dennis Dioukarev of the Swedish Democrats who are here for supporting this decision. And to all the other parties, who obviously do not intend to vote 'no' even if they are very critical today, I would like to say that I think this is very important, and I am glad that we are taking this step. So a brief answer to the chairman of the Committee on Finance's long speech on the framework and budgetary processes. There is a great reason for all of us to think after this crisis about managing different parts of the framework and also the budgetary process. I note that over the course of just over a year, the government and the support parties have tabled 18 additional amending budgets, unfunded, of 400 billion. We have been too much of this, but I believe that there is a discussion to be held about the role of the opposition, which in this case constitutes the majority of Parliament, and our opportunity to influence the direction. We cannot even, Mr President, very much follow-up on all these additional amending budgets. I'm not really sure that's how it was supposed to be from the beginning. This is an exceptional time. So what we are doing with this decision of 4 billion for the country's elderly is not going to ruin the country's economy. Everyone should know that the Moderates will always take responsibility for the Swedish economy and protect taxpayers' money. This year, this is unfunded, absolutely – just like the 400 billion put forward by the government parties, plus the 105 billion budget you put forward. However, this will then have to be financed, and I have a lot of suggestions for the chairman of the Finance Committee, Åsa Westlund, on how she can finance it. For example, we can cut some expenditure, such as aid. Sweden does not need to have one of the world's highest aid. But it's just one example. Of course, things will have to be financed; we will have to come back to that. But I think it is important for the government parties to see that this is the desire and will of the majority for the elderly in Sweden – that you take the responsibility you have not taken and now do what the Corona Commission says: increase medical competence and improve staffing in Swedish retirement homes. It can be as simple and as difficult as that. I am pleased, Mr President, that we are starting this process today. We do this for the elderly in Sweden. This is the least the Swedish Parliament can do during this crisis.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-47	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that Elisabeth Svantesson is quite right that the elderly have paid a very high price in this crisis. The highest has been in the region we are currently in, where the elderly are still waiting for vaccines. I shall stop there, because the President is very sensitive to criticising the moderate-led government of the Stockholm Region. I'll come to my question. It is absolutely true that the government has invested many billions in saving jobs, businesses and prosperity through the crisis. But it's temporary bets that we've borrowed from. Permanent increases in expenditure must be financed with permanent money. The problem for Elisabeth Svantesson is that her new coalition does not agree on the financing of this venture. That's why I have a question. The Moderates are now deliberately breaking up the practice that has helped Sweden to stable public finances, which the Moderates have previously made clear that they support. What does the Moderates' concrete plan look like to put the spirit back in the bottle? It cannot be a responsibility that lies with others. What does the Moderates' plan look like to get back sound public finances in Sweden after this clear breach of budgetary practice?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-50	I can only say that I have tried to make it clear that we are debating rich politics in the Swedish Parliament. Of course, regions can be used as examples in different contexts. I never said anything about that.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-51	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Åsa Westlund! If we start more generally and discuss how to get back to sound public finances, I can say: we will do everything we can to replace this government so that we can push back the very high unemployment rate. If it is something that threatens the welfare of the years to come, it is precisely the unemployment that Åsa Westlund and her party leave behind. If Sweden had developed as an average in the EU during this period of government, we would have had 88 000 more nurses. So the cost that you leave behind in the form of high unemployment is so great. Let me just say it! When it comes to continued funding, it is clear that a majority in the Swedish parliament sees the need for long-term care for the elderly, better staffing, more housing and increased medical competence and thinks it is important. That is why we are sending with the government parties and the support parties, which together are in a minority, a very important direction. You can trust us to come back if you don't do what we say. We did it last January. We'll do it again. You can trust that what we do is long-term. This year this is not financed, just as the 400 plus the 100 billion – 500 billion – are not funded. It is a bit strange that the Social Democrats are now trying to say that it is not taking responsibility when the Moderates invest 4 billion in care for the elderly, but that it was taking responsibility when the Social Democrats invested 4 unfunded billions in care for the elderly, as they did this year. That rhymes badly, Mr President. I believe that those who listen to the debate also feel it.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-56	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for your answer! I note that there is therefore no concrete plan on the part of the Moderates for how to return to the practice that has applied in the Swedish Parliament, where we have protection against the temptation for majorities in the Swedish Parliament to make up legitimate investments without having credible funding. But I'm gonna ask you another question. We have heard what moderate government Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have to say about this proposal. They have stated that care for the elderly absolutely needs secure funding in the future. They need increased resources in the future. But right now the need is not so great. They also find it very difficult to see how they can use the money as you have suggested, with the short planning time that you give them. I wonder, of course, what is it that Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates on a national level can do better about elderly care than the moderate party friends in Sweden's Municipalities and Regions? They are saying: this is not really what we need; what we need is secure and stable funding over the years to come.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-59	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very wise question. Yes, what my colleagues are calling for--I've talked to them a lot before this decision-- is long-term. It will be very important, and we say: This should be long-term. I am thinking of the EUR 4 billion that the support parties and the government have sent to elderly care this year. Some of that money's gonna burn inside. We will ensure that it is a performance-based support that will be passed on to next year. So this money will start a journey and make good use of it. That's the difference between your money and ours. Finally, I would just like to remind the chairman of the Committee on Finance that the parliamentary parties reviewed the rules of the game in 2017. We in the Moderates were clear that we were willing to regulate how to take initiatives outside the budget, but the Social Democrats thought it was a bad idea. Now we play according to the rules of the rules that are here in the Swedish Parliament. We will continue to do so. We will always safeguard finances and order and order in the economy. But we also come in a democratic way to talk to all parties who want to do good and make Sweden better. We have done so now, and we will continue to do so. I think that is fundamentally good for democracy and for public finances.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-62	Mr President, I would like to It has now been more than a year since Sweden received its first confirmed coronafall. Unfortunately, the pandemic still has a grip on our country. However, we see the light in the tunnel in the form of vaccination. We in the Swedish Democrats will, as long as necessary, continue to pursue our policy and vote in favour of others' proposals which, in various ways, ease the burden on health care, businesses and, as is the case today in this report, care for the elderly. The Committee on Budgets today agrees on support for the elderly and our elderly, who have been most affected during this humanitarian disaster. I note that there are no reservations in this report, which suggests that the government parties share the opposition's problem picture and recognise the need for support for our elderly. This committee initiative is a direct consequence of the shortcomings in Swedish care for the elderly, which has unfortunately been visible for a long time and which has become even clearer now during the pandemic. Many hourly employees, wide contact areas, lack of protective equipment and few medical assessments on site are some of the reasons why covid-19 had a large distribution of retirement homes. In other words, the strategy of protecting risk groups at all costs has failed, with disastrous consequences. The infection has entered the country's retirement homes, and staff and the elderly have paid a high price. The committee now supports increased funding for measures in the field of the elderly. This is absolutely necessary, as the Swedish Democrats have been advocating for a long time. Hopefully, this is the first step in establishing an elderly care that can be trusted. The Corona Commission stresses the need for higher staffing, increased skills and reasonable working conditions. That is precisely what the committee initiative has been aiming for and why it receives the support of the Swedish Democrats. Mr President, I would like to As far as the issue of funding is concerned, in the past, when the opposition has pushed through proposals with an impact on the state budget, it has been achieved through savings in other areas of expenditure. This is also, in many cases, the desirable order. But this time the reinforcement is financed by an increase in public debt, like many of the other additional amending budgets that have been dealt with by Parliament during the pandemic. It will therefore be important that there is a clear strategy for a return to the surplus target so that confidence in Swedish fiscal policy does not weaken. As an opposition party, the Swedish Democrats have supported the surplus target and are supporters of the fiscal framework. But the state does not exist for its own sake, but the state must act decisively when the interests of its citizens, or, in this case, the lives of our elders, are at stake. There is room to borrow from the state the funds needed to get us out of this humanitarian and economic crisis. The alternative, not to, honestly right now is far more frightening. The view of the Swedish democrats is therefore that these reinforcements to care for the elderly are absolutely necessary. We, together with the other opposition, have, on several occasions during this pandemic, pushed through reinforcements to society, businesses and prosperity as a result of a crisis management which forced us to act, and now we are doing so again. This time the reinforcements go to the care of the elderly. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-72	Mr President, I would like to Recently, just over a month ago, the Left Party went out and suggested that the government invite all parties to discuss how we should take a joint, long-term responsibility for elderly care. We would negotiate our way to a bottom plate, that is, a bottom plate in the form of money, for how much we think senior care should have during the next term of office. We thought it was a good idea, because we believe that the municipalities need to know the conditions for financing elderly care. Has the government done as we suggested? No. Åsa Westlund here talks about taking responsibility, but the government parties do not seem to want to take long-term responsibility for elderly care. Sure, we can have different opinions about how this is to be financed – that's what politics is all about – but then we can go to elections on it. Do you want to cut aid or health insurance? Do you want to lower taxes, or what do you want to do? I guess that's what we're gonna have to go to elections on. However, if we had such a discussion, we would agree that this much money should be spent on care for the elderly in the next parliamentary term. Then, of course, parties could bid over. We might not think that this money is enough, but instead say that we think that more is needed, and we would have to go to elections on it. But the municipalities would know that this money would come. But the government parties chose not to do so. However, you choose to stand here today and complain about, because it is indirectly what you do, that there is money for elderly care. Four billion will suddenly ruin everything in healthy public finances. The credibility of it is minimal; let me say it. Mr President, I would like to In 2019, the Riksdag decided to remove the targeted state allowance for elderly care. That was $2 billion. The Left Party had negotiated for it. This would have given about 5,000 more employees in care for the elderly. The government parties then chose not to reintroduce it. That's how important it was to care for the elderly. This 2 billion state contribution was not allowed to be extended, but taxes were reduced to 30 billion. So important was the world's best care for the elderly back then. And despite what has happened during the pandemic, cuts in care for the elderly continue. Recently we were able to read about a living in Gothenburg where one had 120 older people in twelve departments, including eleven dementia departments. Do you know how many people worked there at night? Eight people! Eight people would take care of 120 older people. It's a long way from the world's finest care for the elderly. Mr President, I would like to Barely a year ago, the Left Party had a press conference when we went out and demanded a quick rescheduling of the work in the care of the elderly. We pointed out the large number of employees who visited each user in the home care service and that it could be about, as here in Stockholm, as many as 25 people within a two-week period. We pointed out the enormous risk that it posed to the spread of infection. Worst of all, it was in the privatized Stockholm, because here the interest in profit can steer ahead of the elderly's need for care. The lack of protective equipment was extensive. We then called on the government a year ago to quickly raise money for rescheduling and to enable over-employment if it was necessary to achieve greater continuity in the care of the elderly, i.e. to reduce the number of people who came to the old. It would have been good against the spread of infection and good for the old person's care, health and quality of life. Unfortunately, the government and its partners did not listen. It was like they didn't see, didn't know, what it actually looked like and how it worked in the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, we have all been able to share the results. The Corona Commission report on care for the elderly has been very clear. We have also taken note of the testimony of employees and relatives. We haven't been able to protect and protect the old ones. Many elderly people have died. Many are the ones who have lost a husband, a father, a grandmother, a mother, a friend or a grandmother. The price paid is high. A year ago, we also referred to how privatisations have both affected continuity and made it difficult to manage with all these different principals. Interest in how an activity is conducted can also be said to be different because it is governed by different legislation. For example, the Swedish Companies Act says something quite different from the Social Services Act. But it was like speaking on deaf ears. It's like talking to a deaf horse to talk to the Center and Liberals, driven by neoliberal values. The fact that elderly care was and is underfunded should not have come as a surprise – nor should the number of fixed-term, hourly, part-time and shared tours be large and affect quality. It's been known for decades. Nearly 30 per cent of those employed in care for the elderly are employed on a fixed-term basis. Twenty-two per cent have hourly contracts. It says something about the lack of continuity. Imagine yourself being old and dependent on having help in the bathroom, showering, washing, having your food cooked, taking a walk or something else and having to tell the person who comes how you want it. Here's how I want the food heated, so here's what I want to do in the bathroom, so here's how I want it in the shower, and then the new people come all the time. It doesn't provide good quality. But that's what it's been like. What has been a priority in Swedish politics for a long time has been tax cuts. Therefore, care for the elderly has been given a working life where there is a lack of continuing training, often poor working conditions and low wages. However, workers in care for the elderly have tried to do all they can and more to cover for the shortcomings that have existed from the point of view of funding. The structural deficiencies have been so evident that no one during the pandemic could deny them any longer. The Corona Commission has also stated this very clearly. Not least, they have mentioned the situation in staffing with the lack of continuity of staff, the lack of medical skills and poor working conditions. The budget we are now debating is trying to take a first step to change this. More than SEK 4 billion is being added precisely to convert hourly contracts into open-ended contracts. It is good for the old and for the quality, because continuity is crucial for the quality of care for the elderly. Then it is important to know the person and know how it wants it and what the needs are. In what we are now going to consider, we are saying that it should be a target of halving the number of fixed-term contracts. It also gives signals that working conditions in the care of the elderly will be improved so that more people will be able to stay and more people will go there and want to work in this extremely important profession. The long-term ambition of the committee and now the Riksdag is that the number of hourly and fixed-term contracts should be halved mainly by converting them into permanent contracts. There is also money to increase medical skills. It's about training nurses to be nurses or specialist nurses. It is also a question of hiring more medically responsible doctors or medically responsible nurses to improve medical skills in the future. In addition to what I have already mentioned, there is also money for more elderly housing. It's necessary. We all know that there is a crying need, and that has been so for a long time. When you grow old and need help, it should be possible to choose an accommodation where there is access to service and care. Now, apparently, all parties in Parliament are behind the extraordinary amending budget. The Center Party had a special opinion stating that they should abstain, but apparently they have changed their mind there. The Social Democrats and the Green Party seem to be whining the most about the money coming because they themselves have not taken the initiative. When the Commission's report came, nothing was done. It was devastating criticism, but nothing happened to the government parties. We in the Left Party are pleased that, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we have now agreed to ensure that elderly care begins a journey towards better quality, better continuity and better working conditions. Much more will be needed, but now we are taking a first step. Thank you for your cooperation, Elisabeth Svantesson and Jakob Forssmed! I support the proposal in the report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-93	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have referred in recent weeks to the relaxed budgetary practice of supporting a moderate-led government, although it needs the support of the Swedish Democrats. This means that the Left Party now, even if you don't really want to, helps to push forward a order in the Riksdag that increases the Moderates' ability to rule with the support of the Swedish Democrats after the next election. In what way does Ulla Andersson believe that the Left Party secures long-term care for the elderly by helping the Moderates in power in this way?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-95	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left are trying to ensure that the elderly are given the money they need. We believe that this is a good way to create a better future for all of us in the country. The Left Party thinks we should all focus on that. The Social Democrats could also think it would be good if the elderly were given more money and actually worked for it. In recent budgets, however, it is not elderly care that has been a priority but instead tax cuts. You've removed the defense tax. Who was favored there? The residents of Östermalm and Danderyd. In the budget where you reduced taxes by 30 billion, how many single crowns were there for elderly care? There were not many, and Åsa Westlund knows that too. Negotiating a budget knows both Åsa Westlund and I are an enormous process. You have to keep a whole together, you have to make a different balance with each other and you have to gather the evidence. This is not done in the Committee on Finance; it is done in a single budgetary process – and one must support a whole. Åsa Westlund knows that just like I do. Using this support in an extraordinary situation, where we add 4 billion to the care of the elderly, to motivate cooperation with a racist party does not stick together. Åsa Westlund knows that, too.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-99	Mr President, I would like to I am not the one who says that it is connected, but that is how the Liberals justify their position. The Social Democrats will always give priority to elderly care and well-being. We'll do it now, and we'll do it in the future. We also see the risk that with this step, with 4 billion, the conditions for getting the elderly care needed in the future in Sweden will be demolished. 4 billion here and now are not helping, but there is a need for secure and stable funding. You are now destroying the foundation for it. The latent majority in the Riksdag is too large a tax cut. They do not give priority to the welfare that I think Ulla Andersson and I still agree on needs more money. With the step today, the Left Party opens the door for this right-wing majority to push forward unfunded tax cuts again. It is exactly the same policy that drove us to the 1990s crisis and the huge cuts that then hit welfare. We are still not back to some of the levels that existed then. I hope I am wrong, but I regret to say that this may be the result. Does the Left Party see any risk to the care of the elderly with that action?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-103	Mr President, I would like to We negotiated the budget during the last parliamentary term. The Left Party had great ambitions; we wanted to invest a lot in welfare. Did the Social Democrats want that? Yeah, I'm sure they did, but they didn't want to finance it. It was not so important for the elderly to consider raising capital taxes, for example. Wouldn't that be a good way to finance the long-term care of the elderly? But you weren't interested in that. Increase taxes on high-income earners? No, absolutely not! They weren't interested in that either. They wanted money for welfare, but they did not want to finance it in the long term. When Stefan Löfven was elected, he went out and said that he wanted to cooperate with bourgeois parties. We know that the Centre Party and the Liberals are driven by neoliberal values, and it is clear that we knew what policy was to be given. There would be increased economic gaps and not a priority welfare, but that is the cooperation sought. Then you removed the targeted state contribution to care for the elderly in the budget you presented with the Centre Party and the Liberals. It wasn't that important for the elderly back then either. You did nothing at the start of the crisis for elderly care. We tried to draw your attention to reviewing the organisation of care for the elderly, the lack of continuity and the high number of fixed-term contracts. But you didn't. I deeply regret it because it would have been much-needed. Money would have been needed, and there would have been a need for more continuity to prevent the spread of infection. I believe that the Social Democrats want much more on welfare issues than all parties on the right. But I also think that you need to realise that care for the elderly needs long-term funding, and then you need to be prepared to raise taxes. We need to invest in more jobs and increased tax revenues from the richest in society.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-107	Mr President, I would like to To grow old in dignity, to meet and meet your needs, to be seen as the person you are even when your own abilities are lacking and you are affected by illness, is incredibly important and central to our society. Elderly care in Sweden works very well in some places with staff who, often under difficult conditions, do a fantastic job and provide care to fragile elderly people with different needs. At the same time, however, care for the elderly has had major problems. There have been major shortcomings in many places for a long time. That's a low level of staff continuity. A large number of people come home to the elderly, which gives insecurity and poor quality and makes relationships difficult. There have been major shortcomings in staff conditions. There have been many hours' contracts and involuntarily divided tours that are eating up family life and energy. In principle, staff are left unleaded when the manager has an unreasonable workload with direct responsibility for often 50 to 60 people. This in turn creates sick leave, which reduces staff continuity and quality even more. We also know that medical skills have been broken for a long time. It has been difficult to staff elderly care with nurses and doctors, and there has been poor coordination between municipal care for the elderly and health care and care provided by the regions. In addition, we have long had a low-intensity crisis in the form of major shortcomings in adapted housing for the elderly, which has increased insecurity and also led to an increasing number of older people feeling detained in their own homes. Instead, where you should feel the maximum security, you have become insecure and isolated. There has been a growing involuntary loneliness, resulting in additional health problems. These and other shortcomings, and reforms to remedy them, have been pointed out by Christian Democrats for a long time. The Pandemine put several of them in lightning. The Corona Commission has documented and clarified several of them further, and it requires us to remedy them – and to do so as soon as possible. The excessive responsibilities of managers, the vulnerability of staff, the widespread use of hourly workers and a low continuity of staff have put the most vulnerable older people in a vulnerable situation. It was even more exposed in the pandemic, and the elderly are still vulnerable. Mr President, I would like to We should have done something about this earlier, but we have to do it now. It cannot be said that this will have to wait until the crisis is over. We Christian Democrats have called for a crisis package for elderly care throughout this pandemic. When the government has not acted sufficiently, Parliament needs to do so. I am therefore pleased that, with this proposal, we are now breaking the passivity of older people's problems with reforms that bring about improvements in these important areas. It is true that both present and former governments bear responsibility for the situation that has arisen, but the inaction of the Social Democratic government after accession in 2014 may well be considered to be in a class by itself. First, the senior minister post was abolished – it came back a few years later – and the demention plan waiting for implementation was scrapped. The older inquiry into the care of the elderly that the Alliance Government and the Christian Democrats set up was closed. The conclusions to date were buried in a rock room, to borrow the investigators' words. No other investigation took place. It didn't get any better with new partners in 2019 either. The elderly and fragile did not have a representative in the negotiations on the 73 points, where care for the elderly was given two-half points, and the first joint budget in spring 2019 made cuts in care for the elderly. At first, the effort on community hosts to combat loneliness and isolation disappeared, but the most flagrant thing was probably that the targeted effort for better staff continuity in elderly care was completely removed. It was written in the spring bill that a good staffing continuity in home care should not be pursued – but that some other elderly care efforts were added. That's how it's kept going. The government has cut support to build adapted housing for the elderly, despite the fact that the support has been searched since 2016. In 2019 it was raised to 700, but it was lowered again by the government. It has now turned out that the support for 2020 ended already during the summer and that applications have been queued up. With the pandemic, it has become apparent that care for the elderly can no longer be treated in this way. The government has made some efforts, such as the Elderly Care Lift, to raise basic skills. That is a good thing, and we support it. The same applies to the general increase in support for elderly care. But that is not enough. It is not enough to correct the flaws that have been put in lightning and that are here and now. It is not enough to address the problems. We Christian Democrats have called for a crisis package, and when the opportunity came to do something along with the Left Party and the Moderates, we seized it. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your good and constructive cooperation with Elisabeth Svantesson and Ulla Andersson throughout the period that we have been working on the proposal. We seized the opportunity because this needs to be improved here and now. We need to improve job security. We must reduce the number of hourly contracts and increase the number of permanent contracts. We need to reduce the involuntary shared tours, which work on staff and make the quality of care for the elderly worse. It becomes more difficult for the elderly to build relationships with those who provide care, and this weakens the quality and health of older people. That is why this is so important, both for the benefit of the staff and for the benefit of the elderly. We also need to develop medical skills – more doctors, more nurses and medical doctors. There's a need for more specialist nurses. This reform package aims to begin this very important work now. It is a question of providing resources but also of making demands: improvements must now be made. The structural deficiencies that have caused an acute crisis in care for the elderly now need to be addressed. The same applies to housing. We cannot have a situation in which the Ministry of Finance points out that within a few years there will be a shortage of thousands of places to live in many hundreds of accommodations while applications are high and waiting for investment aid that could make a difference. The same is true even when an increasing number of older people feel that they do not have access to housing with Community opportunities and security, which is very important for preventing ill health and for postponing illness. Then we must act, Mr President. I am pleased that a united parliament is now making decisions on these improvements. We enable municipalities to work more actively with these important issues – more housing places and increased medical skills, for better care and care for the fragile and vulnerable elderly. Staff conditions should be improved so that those who work hard will have a better chance of actually doing what they are so amazingly good at.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-121	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that there is such a consensus in this House that we have a great responsibility to strengthen care for the elderly and to ensure that the people who have built this country have a dignified life throughout their lives. You're supposed to be able to live your whole life, and you're supposed to have empowerment. You should be able to be seen as a human being, as an individual, and live your life as you want, with the help of a functioning care for the elderly. Mr President, I would like to It is also positive that this House is now acting in unison and together to overcome the many problems that exist in the care of the elderly and as covid-19 in an extremely tragic and devastating way so clearly exposed to everyone in our society. More money for elderly care is very good and absolutely necessary, Mr President. It is for these reasons that the Liberals have been the driving force behind this in the January cooperation agreement, and it is precisely for people to be able to live their lives for the rest of their lives and precisely for us to have a dignified care for the elderly throughout the country that we have pushed for more money and contributed to the historic strengthening of the local government sector. That is also why we welcome the fact that the opposition is pushing for even more money. I note, Mr President, that there is a great political consensus in the House of the Swedish Parliament on this part of these issues. Mr President, I would like to I hope that in the future we will see a government that will return with more answers to the problems highlighted by the opposition and to the problems that covid-19 has exposed and exposed. I hope, Mr President, that we will see a broad in the middle of the Swedish Parliament working together in the usual preparation processes on these issues, so that we can overcome the problems that we have actually jointly identified. I think that many people who are looking at this today, Mr President, are a little confused about how we want to play the level of conflict between each other on issues where there is quite a consensus. I think that many elderly and many relatives of older people find it a little provocative that we play quite a lot of political theatre and want to suggest that there is more conflict is what it really is. We want to strengthen care for the elderly – if there is a broad political consensus and a broad political centre. I believe and hope, as I said, that the government will come back with proposals on how we can solve even more problems in the future and make sure that, with customary processing processes, we make joint proposals on the things we really agree on. Once again, I would like to thank the opposition, which has pushed for even more money for elderly care. This is something that the Liberals have also done in the framework of the January agreement.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-128	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to ask Joar Forssell a little bit about the security of employment in care for the elderly. First of all, I was going to quote, or at least summarize, Marta Szebehely's evaluation of the privatisations in the care of the elderly. She says that this has nothing to do with quality, but only with ideology and that the price of these privatisations has been paid by the multi-sick elderly, mainly because continuity has fallen so sharply. Of course, it's very important if it's the same person who comes to your house all the time and knows how you want it, instead of new people constantly coming who absolutely don't know how you want it. In elderly care, the proportion of fixed-term employment is very high – in 2019 it was 16 per cent in the whole labour market but 28 per cent in elderly care. The share of hourly employment in care for the elderly was 22 per cent at the time. What I wonder is: what proposals have the Liberals made to increase continuity in the care of the elderly and to transform fixed-term and hourly contracts into permanent contracts? What I have seen so far is that we want to move in a different direction, i.e. increase insecurity in the labour market by, for example, tearing up LAS. But now I was going to ask Joar Forssell: What proposals have been made? What proposals have been made? What problems have been addressed?
i-YCxpWVhgXcyeiD7bhb8VTZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for the question. There were many questions in your question, Ulla Andersson. You are welcome to return in your answer if I miss someone, because there were many relevant questions. First of all, I would like to point out that the economic policy of the Liberals – for this, of course, is also very much about funding – is about creating a great wealth that we can then use when we distribute through welfare. The great dividing line between the Liberals and the Left Party on these issues is that the Liberals have a much more offensive policy of creating prosperity and ensuring that we have entrepreneurship and people working and that there is a roll-in of money to the treasury which we can then use to strengthen welfare. The economic policy of the Left Party does not create wealth and will therefore, in the longer term, lead to a much more underfunded care of the elderly and well-being in general. But, Mr President, back to the questions. I think it is good that there are private alternatives. I think that is good because we have a diversity. I myself have older people in my vicinity who have had both private and public practitioners of elderly care, and they have experienced both shortcomings and strengths. What has been important has been to actually be able to make one's own choice, to have power over one's own life and to be able to opt out of what has been of inferior quality. This is the big win. As far as employment security is concerned, we think it is important that there is long-term funding. I also think it is important – this may surprise the Left Party, but anyone who knows the history of the Liberals is not surprised – that there is a strong trade union movement that can make demands, that one organizes itself and that the social partners agree on how it should work.
i-BpG3SKpNM7ge7UUkLDk7t3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the answer! A policy of prosperity can be developed in many different ways. For example, it has recently been noted that greater economic inequality is worse for economic development than an economic policy of economic equality, so I can certainly say that the economic policy represented by Joar Forssell is not the best way to create prosperity in a country, nor to distribute it. We have recently debated the budget here. I can remember when you pushed 6 billion to those who are absolutely the best off in this country while cutting down on care for the elderly; this was in the budget for 2020. Improvements are needed in both public and privatised care for the elderly. The big difference between the privatised and public elderly care is that continuity is better – even if it is poor – in the public sector. There are many more part-time jobs in the privatised care of the elderly, and there are many more with fixed-term contracts and fixed-term contracts. There are many more uneducated and much lower staffing, because that's how you make profit. It is the staff that is the big cost of care for the elderly. When you are governed by the Companies Act, which these companies do and will do, it is the profit that is the goal. But that is not the case in the elderly; there it is the elderly's health, care, well-being and woe that should govern. Therein lies a great conflict. I appreciate the fact that Joar Forssell talks about the organisation of trade unions; it is very important. However, political proposals can also be put forward here in Parliament which increase continuity, as we have done today.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-142	Mr President, I would like to Let us not cave in economic theory. I can only say that countries that have tested market economy and liberalism have gained a higher level of prosperity than countries that have tested socialism and have therefore also been able to strengthen their care and well-being in the longer term. Mr President, I would like to I think the Left Party has a rather strange view of these issues. After all, the goal of care for the elderly and for the whole welfare must be the individual who will ultimately use the welfare. After all, it is the person's well-being and woe, empowerment, the right to decide over his own life and the right to have good care for the elderly that must be the goal. For this reason, it is important that there are private performers. You should be able to choose and opt out. You should not be assigned a municipal or public officer and then just get to fix the situation and have what a politician has decided, but you should have the power to decide and to choose and opt out. You should be able to do this yourself. It is clear that there are problems in both private and public care for the elderly. There I think politicians should be able to make demands, and so can we. You can make tougher demands from politics on several of the things that the Left Party is addressing. If you think the most important thing is to prioritise continuity, you can make such demands, and I am quite open to doing so. But at the end of the day, we still have to boil this down. Do we want a system where we add more power to the elderly or a system where we add more power to Ulla Andersson? Do we – if we talk economics – want a system where people themselves drive prosperity or a system of less prosperity where we also get less well-being at the other end? I believe in a system where people can decide more for themselves.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-147	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of commitment to the situation of the elderly and to care for the elderly in the Riksdag, and this is important and good. We now do each more or less prayer and acknowledge that there are structural problems in the care of the elderly that have been ignored on many levels, by many politicians and for many years. That is a good thing, because it gives us the opportunity to deal with these issues forward. In doing so, Mr President, the most important word is long-termism in order to create the conditions for the growing group of elderly people, who will also have more different types of diseases, to gain security in their housing and in access to care and care. This is a really, really big question for Sweden to move forward. The crisis we are still in has exposed major cracks. We have not been able to live up to the objective of protecting the elderly from the pandemic. As has been said here in the speaker's chair, they have paid a high price. Those who work in care for the elderly, both in home care and in nursing homes, have worked extremely hard and have also had to make very difficult decisions locally during the past year. Should we pay them in any way because it is good working conditions, access to colleagues, access to continuing training and security in the organisation of care and care for the elderly that we should give them. Mr President, I would like to Then I find it sad that two things happen. One is to politicise this issue in the sense that the other side has done nothing, when it is quite easy to go back to previous budgets and see that the government and the January parties have taken initiatives that included targeting resources for training and access to staff in the care of the elderly. It's not exactly nice to stand here and say that nothing has happened. At the same time, we recognise that more needs to be done. The second thing that is happening is that the details are quickly brought down, and I regret that, Mr President. The organisation Swedish Municipalities and Regions has for many years been pointing out the problems of targeted state aid to various activities, not least to elderly care, because it does not give them the best conditions to plan locally. Therefore, the government has focused on more resources for general government grants to municipalities and some parts targeted specifically at staff, where there is a broad consensus that we need to do more. In the future, I think it is important that we continue to distribute the most money to the municipalities from the general state grant, so that the local conditions can govern the work. Mr President, I would like to I intend to take the liberty of reproducing what my mother has written. My mother has worked in elderly care in Sweden for a very long time, both at retirement homes and as a district nurse. She wrote me an email a few weeks ago about this debate. She was a little worried that the debate is so much about money. There is a need for money for elderly care, but she was very clear that it is not enough, that this issue is not only about funds but also about organisation. One issue that we have not solved is how to ensure that there is a continuous health contact for the elderly. There are a lot of people who work in these businesses and out in the municipalities who are hesitant about the idea that the municipalities should employ doctors in elderly care. It is an issue that has been discussed for a long time and locally, and it has emerged that the activities are very doubtful about that idea. The government has set up a government investigation that will penetrate the issue thoroughly, bring in expertise and turn the question of how to secure long-term healthcare contact. I regret, then, that the initiative now being taken to strengthen care for the elderly is moving into the matter and saying that a targeted state subsidy should resolve the issue of medical contact, rather than waiting for the investigation. This has been slightly adjusted during preparation. But I mention this to show the complexity of the issue and the importance and value of allowing the regular processes we have in terms of both investigation systems and budget processes to take their time, even when we feel that issues are urgent. I can also feel that the issue of care for the elderly is acute and that I want to do something here and now. But sometimes, in fact, the role of politicians is to let things take their time, and in this matter certain parts should. The second issue is housing for the elderly. It's huge. We have a large group of older people who would have to live in a different way from what they are doing today, and it will be bigger in the future. I am absolutely convinced that there is not only one solution for this large group, whether for how we are to fund it or how they are to live in the best way. This has been investigated many times and under different types of governments, and there are several solutions that have not worked very well. Again, in this initiative, I feel that we are trying to simplify the solution and strengthen a contribution that has existed for a time and has not actually worked very well. There's a need for a bigger grip. There are a number of good investigations that have been carried out, including by a Member of Parliament, Barbro Westerholm, which there is a value in looking at again. We need to address the issue of how older people should live and how to fund good housing for the elderly in the future. However, we should not simplify it and believe that an initiative in the Committee on Finance will solve the issue, because I do not think it will. It's harder than that. Let me say a few words about the orderly budgetary process. It may seem to be the most boring thing you can talk about, but it is actually extremely important. We have a very special year behind us, where we have worked within the framework but still in an unusual way. Together with a great deal of dialogue between Parliament and the Government, we have produced huge efforts that have been unfunded, and it has been right to do during a year of crisis. But after this crisis there will be a need to go back to an orderly budgetary process. Maybe it shouldn't look exactly the same as it did before. There is certainly reason to review it jointly between the parties. From the Green Party we are happy to change the target for Sweden's finances to a balance sheet target that can free up more resources to invest in welfare and climate change, but we want to do so step by step. To undermine the budgetary process that we have agreed on is, I believe, quite dangerous for Sweden's economy and for the opportunities to address the challenges that we face in an orderly manner. Mr President, I would like to I am very concerned that we should actually lose sight of Sweden's healthy public finances and miss the opportunity to tackle major challenges, such as welfare, elderly care, crime, the environment and the climate. For this we will need an orderly budgetary process, in which we will jointly find majorities. What is happening now is something else. It is a gradual return to a policy which we know does not work and which, among other things, gave us the crisis of the 1990s. That would certainly be regrettable. I very much hope that the consensus that exists that we want to protect, for example, elderly care can lead to a joint effort and that we can find a way back to an orderly budgetary process in the Swedish Parliament. It's extremely important. I hope that we can take joint responsibility for this in the future.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-166	Mr President, I would like to I support all our reservations and our specific opinion, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 11. It is a few years since we presented the crime prevention programme Together against crime. It was solemn, because it was not just any report and programme. It was then 20 years after a comprehensive crime prevention programme was last presented to the Riksdag. We produced one, and it's red-green everyday air in the fight against crime and to some extent social deviation. This is where you often can't put the power into place when the media require fast play and politicians' brand building becomes more important than the challenges that exist outside these walls. Of course, the fact that we were in broad agreement was also a strength for this programme. Maybe it was one last twitch of common sense and reason. We hope, however, that we can get back there, because the citizens expect it. We must make an effort to find a common understanding of the major societal challenges, whether they are the environment, the fight against and the consequences of the Corona or crime and punishment. Since we adopted the programme, a great deal has happened in the political climate of debate, but also in substance. Good and bad things have happened, and there have been both good and bad trends. We see disastrous criminal structures, such as the breakdown of our uniting school. It is one of the main driving factors to the segregation that is tearing up our society. At one time this school created meetings, tickled us up and held a high international class. Here we have made decisions that have been devastating and that of course affect what we are talking about today. We Social Democrats believe in the strong society where we stick together and where differences between gender and social classes are not allowed to grow. The Nordic social model has proved to be a much stronger construction than other internationally tested models. I think I also said last time that perhaps the Nordic model is the best working model throughout the history of the world to organize our common existence and our common life. It is a society in which the freedom of the individual can be combined with a non-corrupt legal society and where globalisation is a prerequisite for economic growth that feeds on the table as well as creativity and dynamism, which indeed also characterises our multicultural society. It's a big gain for the justice chain when a crime is prosecuted. But it is of course an even greater social gain that a crime is not committed, and that is what crime prevention is all about. It is the core of the issue, and research and practice show that it is precisely the crime prevention work that is the most effective in meeting the challenges. That is why we must be able to give priority to this perspective. I believe that the letter we are debating today is proof of this. It's nothing dramatic and not so play-out friendly, but it's very Swedish. If you want to complicate things, you can say that it is complex. It is not in this House or in the committees that this work is done in practice, but in our municipalities and regions by thousands of welfare workers and voluntary forces every day. Today's crime prevention work is carried by people in their daily lives. They just do, and they're the heroes. It's about millions of decisions in the little one. Let me take some examples of positive areas of development that the letter highlights. There are many, but I choose to address the physical design of society. At the initiative of the government, a decision has been taken on something that may be perceived as a little apart in this context, namely a new plan with national objectives for architecture, form and design policy. What does this have to do with crime? Well, through these instruments we can create a sustainable, equal and less segregated society with carefully shaped habitats. We now have a strategy in place to be implemented. In this strategy, security, security and crime prevention aspects will be integrated into sustainable urban development. This is an example, but there are also many good examples in practice. In recent years we have been able to follow BID Sofielund in Malmö and their very successful collaboration with different actors to get crime off the streets. I really want to highlight this project – and Malmö in general, because here the intentions of the Riksdag and the practical implementation of the City Hall match well. We have also seen that crime has been pushed back into this city, which became the symbol of Sweden's systemic collapse. Measurements show that in this city man, ironically, is the most happy, and here is an extremely creative business and amazing people. When the programme was adopted in 2017, Malmö had 65 shootings. Last year, they were 20. Damaged and killed in connection with blasts were 8, 16 and 16 years 2017 – 2019 while last year they were 3. The explosions in general are today one third as many as in 2017. It's incredibly pleasing. We can partly see the same developments in Gothenburg and elsewhere in our country. With repressive measures, we can push back. Hundreds of the most criminals are behind bars and will do so. But the foundation is crime prevention. There are a number of announcements. As usual, some open doors are kicked in, but there are also wise views that the government needs to take into account. After all, it is Parliament's will that applies. One is about more fielders outside office hours. A decision of SEK 250 million was already made here in the autumn budget, which meets the needs and allows the crime prevention work in our underprivileged areas to be given higher priority. A quarter of a billion is not a little money in this context. There are also comments about new authorities and more investigations, but as the letter says, we will probably try to use the tools available. We have a world-unique and fantastic tool in the Crime Prevention Council, and they have been given extended mandates in several areas that they will implement in an excellent way. We do not need more authorities and investigations, but sharpen the tools we already have. It is implementation that counts and nothing else. Together, we will ensure that this program does not end up in the promised kingdom of the shelves. We will ensure that it is evaluated, updated and followed up. We will always focus on crime prevention. It is expected of us, and here politics must deliver.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-184	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the government's presentation of measures in accordance with the objectives of the National Crime Prevention Programme Together against Crime. I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but I only support reservation number 6. The Government presented the programme in 2017. The aim was to create the conditions for a structured and long-term crime prevention work throughout society. The government has now explained what measures have been taken and decided. Based on what Petter Löberg has just said, it seems to have gone very well, but what has happened during the four years since the programme was adopted? What's the point? I'm saying it's not approved. National security surveys show that offences against individuals have increased since 2016. These include, for example, assault, illegal threats, sexual offences, personal robbery and other crimes. Over 22 per cent of the population were exposed to any of these crimes in 2019. In 2020 shootings became a daily crime in Sweden, with one shooting every day. Almost every two weeks a person was shot to death, and a lot of people were injured. People barely react anymore when a shooting takes place without twitching their shoulders and thinking: Oh, one more. 30 percent of Sweden's population feel so insecure that they avoid going out in the evenings in their own residential area. So they remain in their apartment and do not dare to go out – in Sweden, 30 percent! 19 percent of 16 - 19 - year - olds are worried about being robbed. There are also a lot of them. Thus, 19 percent have stomach pain when they go out because they are afraid that they will be robbed. This can be understood in view of the increase in robberies, especially robbery with humiliation. It's terrible. About half of all people in Sweden are very worried about crime in society overall. People in Sweden are afraid in many ways, many in their own residential area. And many are afraid that loved ones will be exposed, even me. I'm worried when I know my sons are going out to party on a Saturday night, and I'm worried when my daughter-in-law is going out with her friends. When I know they're going out to party, I think it's hard. They don't even live at home, but I have a little lump in my stomach. Is it this night something's going to happen? The police have a very important role in society's crime prevention work, and there is a need for an investigation into what is actually the police's mission. The last investigation was conducted over 20 years ago, and a new investigation is needed to clarify the police's crime prevention work and their role. Mr President, I would like to A national knowledge centre should be set up to disseminate knowledge about research and trial methods for crime prevention. The Knowledge Centre will focus on crime prevention and provide support to municipalities in their work with young people at risk. We have previously proposed the introduction of a national exit programme for gang criminals, and it is in some form in progress. But it is all the more important to develop a national programme to prevent young people at risk from becoming gang criminals, not a programme for those who have been gang criminals for years and are going to leave it. It is when you see that a youth is entering gang crime that you should put in a program, what we call a no entry program. It's much better to stop them before they get caught up in crime. Our proposal is therefore that the Knowledge Centre should develop a national no entry programme bringing together parents and other important adults and authorities to work together to get young people to jump off the criminal path. The purpose is to stop their criminal course with common forces. Mr President, I would like to Drugs policy must be restrictive. Society must react early when young people start using drugs – the sooner the better. It is important to also test young people under the age of 15. Social intervention groups working together between social authorities, the police and the school are other important measures to stop a criminal lifestyle. Sales of drugs online are on the increase. The number of young people aged 15 to 24 who have been treated for mental disorders caused by cannabis or other drugs has more than doubled over ten years. We Moderates think it is important to catch young people who feel bad and are therefore at risk of exclusion and crime. It is therefore important that social security secretaries, field assistants and other municipal officials are on the streets and squares even after the office has closed. Mr President, I would like to Prisons in Sweden have received a new group of young adults who pose new challenges for the Prison Service. These are young men from vulnerable areas, who have low confidence in the police and other authorities, who have started with a criminal lifestyle at a young age and who also have substance abuse problems, at least most. These people are often completely uninterested in quitting their crime. This imposes new requirements on the content of prison sentences or various prison sentences. The main focus of enforcement efforts must be on preventing them from relapsing into crime. That is why we want to set up an investigator who will take a concerted approach to this group of people and make proposals for appropriate crime prevention measures and also review the content of the penalties. The investigator will also take in experience from other countries to try to find out what is working and what is not working. Mr President, I would like to The most disgusting crimes I know are sexual crimes against children. I worked on it when I was a detective in Gothenburg. It turns in the stomach when you know what some children are exposed to. I'm used to most things, but this is so incredibly unpleasant and disgusting that you get physical nausea. I've seen pictures of child abuse, and a movie I saw ten years ago is still on my retina. I can still get pain in my stomach when I think about it, that's how bad it was. It is therefore very important for society to do everything possible to stop these crimes. At Karolinska University Hospital is Anova, a centre that works to prevent sexual and reproductive ill health and sexual violence. There is Preventell – the help line at unwanted sexuality. The help line has been in place since 2012 and has since the inauguration received over 2,000 calls. This is where people, such as paedophiles who feel that they are about to sexually abuse children, realize that it is not normal, call and receive support. In connection with the enrolment call, convicted criminals receive information about Preventell, and it is also possible to contact them anonymously. However, this information is not given when sex offenders are to leave prison and move to parole. We really think they should get this information when they come out into society. This is an important activity to prevent child sexual abuse. This is why we should look at the possibilities for fixed funding, because they are now getting money year by year, project-based. We Moderates, like the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis, believe that it should eventually shift to a regional responsibility. In conclusion, Mr President, we have five announcements, and that feels very good. First, specific rural and rural-specific crime prevention work should be developed. Then, as I was talking about, a national knowledge centre should be set up to develop a no entry programme. We also have an announcement of that, which is very good. There should be more social security officers outside office hours. An investigation should find out which crime prevention measures are effective in the case of young men. Finally, funding for Preventell should be reviewed.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-207	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has no doubt that the government has good intentions when it comes to preventing crime. Many of the efforts that have taken place in recent years are very commendable. For example, the parliamentary security committee, set up by the government on the initiative of the Center Party, has an important role in the prevention of crime. The 34-point programme against gang crime, drawn up by a number of parliamentary parties, with measures now being implemented is also good. But I think it's obvious to most people that more needs to be done. I am guessing that most of our elected representatives in municipalities and regions want even more precise and clear expectations from us as legislators than is the case today and also relevant funding for measures. In any case, this type of accounting is good – the government's letter of action on the "Combined against Crime" programme. This will enable the problems that remain to be identified, shortcomings to be identified and the need for strengthening measures to be identified. Unfortunately, perhaps I read the letter somewhat differently from my colleague Petter Löberg. I think that this report provides more of the former, that is to say that problems and shortcomings are made visible, but less of proposals for concrete measures in the future. The letter contains a correct list of what the government has done in the form of investigations, assignments and more. It's a good compilation. But the question is, what do we need it for? Mr President, I would like to Already when the government launched the National Programme Against Crimes in 2017, the Riksdag warned that the programme would be difficult to evaluate, that it contained for overall reasoning and that actors in the field of crime prevention would find it difficult to use the letter to support their own crime prevention work. I'm afraid this has come true. This report does not give a clear and coordinated picture of the measures that have been taken – the outcome of the measures, the relationship between the measures and the division of responsibilities. There is repeated talk of spreading knowledge and good examples. However, there is no record of good examples that have spread well. The report highlights the need to work knowledge-based in crime prevention. The word knowledge base appears no less than 37 times in the 55-page document. Trust me, that's good, of course. But working knowledge-based is hardly something new or unique. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has long pointed out that there is a need for increased research in police training, but also in other areas, in order to obtain a clearer picture of crime and the most effective measures to combat it. The Government's letter mentions that all county boards have established cooperation with universities in order to strengthen the link between research and practice in crime prevention. I remember with pleasure the programmes that Örebro University arranged from its research, both from a social and from a situational perspective that we locally active in municipalities had to take part in. These were measures that produced results. More research is therefore necessary. The report also shows that knowledge of the vulnerability to crime of companies and authorities and non-individual crimes is underdeveloped. For the Center Party, it is extremely important that this is addressed urgently. Not least now during the pandemic, it has been shown that crimes such as blackmail against companies with financial problems have increased sharply. It turns out that the authorities do not have the right instruments for curbing and counteracting these crimes and for bringing those crimes to justice. Mr President, I would like to The report also mentions the need to specifically adapt knowledge support to smaller cities, urban areas and rural municipalities and that the Crime Prevention Council has a special task to work on this. There are differences in the type of crime and differences in the conditions for working crime prevention in rural and sparsely populated areas compared to urban environments. This requires a somewhat different way of working. The Center Party therefore calls for a specific rural and rural-specific crime prevention work to be developed. And we are very pleased that we have a united committee with us on this particular issue. Not least, this is incredibly important when it comes to criminal offences in the countryside and that theft goods can too easily leave the country. We look forward to a forthcoming bill that strengthens customs' ability to stop goods and other measures against theft crimes. However, there is also a need for a well-developed strategy that will ensure that these crimes do not actually happen. Systematised work such as Neighborhood against crime is a very good example. It would be desirable for such work to exist in far more rural areas than it is today. Furthermore, it is clear that crime against welfare and benefit systems continues to be widespread. We recognize this. These are false work permits used for assistance fraud, false certificates and incorrect public records that contribute to incorrect payments. But it's also about companies that are used as crime tools – goaltenders, quite simply. This too must, of course, be countered. The Center Party has previously exercised on a general crime-prosecuting mission for government agencies. We believe that this is a sharper definition than today's cooperation between authorities against serious crimes, which is now included in the instructions given by the authorities, which is a good thing. However, the report clearly shows that the mission needs to be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to What is sad to read in the letter is what it says little about, and my colleague Ellen Juntti has been into it. These are the worst types of crime, namely sexual abuse in general and against children and young people in particular. The Swedish National Audit Office has previously criticised the Government's work in combating the sexual exploitation of children and young people. In fact, it does not say anything about one of the most profitable types of crime, namely trafficking – trafficking with women and girls. It is therefore important that a national action plan against sexualised violence is drawn up, as proposed by the Left Party. The government refers to the national strategy to combat men's violence against women. But that's not enough. Sexual violence is much more than that. It is equally self-evident for us to support the Moderates' proposal to strengthen and permanent help line Preventell against unwanted sexual behaviour. In plain language, it means offering those with risky behaviour, who display unwanted criminal behaviour in relation to totally unacceptable sexual preferences, an adequate treatment that this system does in a very refined and good way. Finally, Mr President, after taking note of the report, I am sure that when the programme against crime was introduced, Parliament's objection that it was in danger of diverting attention from concrete measures and mobilising resources that could have been better used has proved to be a little justified. The focus of crime prevention should be on the concrete measures that really play a role in countering the emergence of crime. These include increased knowledge and equivalence in schools, low youth unemployment and increased confidence in the future in young people, rapid and adequate treatment of mental illness and neuropsychiatric diagnoses, a general crime-enforcement mission for authorities, increased municipal power and responsibility for crime prevention, sanctions when crimes have been committed that show that crime does not pay off, and increased research for a clearer picture of crime and the best methods of combating it. This should be the focus instead of different projects for knowledge-based working methods. Preventive work to increase security throughout the country is a crucial issue in the coming years. The Center Party will continue to push for greater security in both urban and rural areas. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-232	Mr President, I would like to There is no part of the legal issues that is as important as crime prevention. Work must be structural and long-term. It must take time and cost money. We need to talk about what's hard and invest in what might not yield returns directly. What is devastating for society's crime prevention capabilities are men's violence against women, the sexual violence that women and girls worldwide are subjected to and the underlying power structures that enable the violence to continue. Men's hatred of women is manifested through violence in close relationships and rapes as well as the purchase of other people's bodies for sexual purposes. Sexualised violence remains one of the greatest threats to women's health and an obstacle to achieving a world of equality. Men's violence against women does not exist in a vacuum; violence is the ultimate expression of an unequal society. Sexualised violence is structural and systematic, but at the same time arbitrary and unpredictable. It can strike at any time, anywhere and against anyone – as long as you define yourself as a woman. It is because of the unequal society that a suspected perpetrator who has been arrested for rape can both go out with his name while he is in custody and can hold a press conference outside his house when he has been released from detention and the investigation is closed – while the woman who reported him for sexual crimes must go underground and hide. It's the power structures – and that men always sit on more power than women do – that allow a previously suspected and detained person to blog about the plaintiff hearings and the victim of the crime, tell her about her and her actions and describe that he fell for the temptation – because that's what women are: women with a tickling feeling, men with a tickling feeling have to be away from-- and that the woman in question is a liar. Listen to the words I say: lying, falling into temptation. It's the same word that men have described women with for a hundred years – as something else, as something that can both seduce and destroy. I have raised the issue of men's responsibility for sexual crimes many times in this House. 97% of all sexual crimes are committed by men. It is impossible for us women to keep us from rapists, because it is impossible to look at anyone whether he is a rapist or not. Sexual crimes are committed by all men – ordinary men, stupid men, fathers, lawyers and rulers. With regard to sex crimes, it is clear that the woman is still seen as responsible for the crime, that it is considered that she should ensure that she is not a fresco for the man and that she is seen as responsible for the actions of men. He can happily write a blog, hold a press conference and sit back in the warm embrace of society. The woman has to run for her life, because she's reported him to the police as if it were a crime. Unfortunately, it does not matter how many crime prevention programmes are set up, because it will only be paper products. Only 10% of all police reported cases of sexual offences lead to prosecution and only 3% to conviction. And women reported by the police are portrayed as frescoes and lying shoes. There are some concrete things that need to be done. The person responsible for the report may also bear the description of the history. That's what metoo was about: that crime victims have to account for their history and that women should dare and be able to report crimes they have been subjected to. To have been sexually abused several times and to have pointed this out must not reduce the credibility of the victim. The justice system is flawed. The preliminary investigations need to be improved. Too many investigations end up at the bottom of the pile. There are too little resources, and the priorities are somewhere else. The priority given to sexual crimes by the judiciary must be increased. There are many things to do. More money is needed for the judiciary and more knowledge about sexual crimes throughout the legal chain. Above all, however, we must move from a culture of rape, where women must act as the perfect victim of crime in order to have a rapist convicted, to a culture of consent, where consent is crucial and where a yes is a yes and a no means that it is a rape. But we're not there yet. In terms of legislation, however, we are there. Believe me – influential men have tried to stop consent law. Culturally, unfortunately, it is sometimes a far too long way to go to a culture of consent. A consent culture is the most crime prevention available. We need to get there. I request the approval of reservation 8.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-245	Madam President, I would like Linda Snecker says that all men are more or less sex offenders. I really don't agree with that. I hope Linda Snecker meant that there are sexual offenders in all professions. I can agree with that. But not all men are sex offenders. That's what I want to say. I have two sons, and I would find it very hard to imagine that they would be. In any case, Linda Snecker spoke very warmly about victims and women's rights to both protection and one and the other. Then I remembered that a few years ago in the Committee on Justice, Justice and Home Affairs, we were dealing with an issue of electronic monitoring of restraining orders. We are a few parties that want the anklet to be used as the first step. So we can't do that now. You first get a restraining order and then break it once before you get a anklet. But Linda Snecker reserved for this. In the report, the committee proposes that the Parliament adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the law on the prohibition of contact and to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The purpose of the amendments is to strengthen protection against harassment and persecution. Then it says that there is a great restriction on the protection of the individual. But Linda Snecker does not think of the protection of the victim, but that it is a great restriction for the offender. I'd like an explanation, but does Linda Snecker still think so?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-248	Madam President, I would like I get extremely upset, scared and confused about how Ellen Juntti can come up with the argument: Not all men. It is the argument that makes women all over the world afraid, unable to cope and unwilling to report the men who commit crimes against them. They're all the men Ellen Juntti has been working with. It is the men who have abused women and children. Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti makes the argument: Not all men commit sexual crimes. No, it's obvious that not all men commit sex crimes. No one has said that at all. But, Ellen Juntti, of all sexual crimes committed, 97% of the crime category is committed by men. Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti feels that the most important thing she can do in a reply to my speech, where I have talked about the culture of consent, women victims, metoo and how women finally managed, dared and could report all the men who have committed terrible crimes against women at all times, is to say that not all men commit crimes. Madam President, I would like Everyone understands that not all men commit crimes. But of all sexual crimes committed, 97% are committed by men. What we see now is a huge backlash. Powerful men are reported for sexual crimes and can stand up and say: This didn't happen. We know as women, Ellen Juntti, that 97% of all sexual crimes are committed by men. It is a huge problem, and we must change it.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-253	Madam President, I would like I agree that this is a huge problem. I also know that it is 97% or nearly 100% of all sex offenders who are men. It must, of course, be taken very seriously. What I'm opposed to is saying that all men are. Not all men are sex offenders. The sex offenders who commit crimes are almost 100 percent men. I think that's a difference. You shouldn't say that all men are. I'm against it. Linda Westerlund Snecker won't answer my question. Now I've got the reservation from a couple of years ago. I share the opinion of the exercisers that the victim perspective is very important. This is what Linda Westerlund has said today. But she goes on to say, "Electronic surveillance, however, involves a severe interference with a person's freedom. ..................................................... When you read it, you think that she is protecting the freedom of the victim, but it is not. It's the perpetrator's, the suspect's, the freedom she's protecting here. With that reservation, she does not want to agree that you can use the anklet as the first step. Anyone who harasses women should, like, first get a restraining order and then a chance to harass the woman one more time before he gets a anklet. It is quite strong for Linda Westerlund Snecker to stand here and talk about how she protects victims and wants to prevent violence against women. At least she doesn't do that in this reservation. I would like to know: Does Linda Westerlund Snecker still think that the offender's integrity is more important than that of the victim, as she has written in the reservation? Yes or no?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-257	Madam President, I would like I think it is serious when Ellen Juntti stands and makes active forgery of what I say in the Parliament's pulpit, because that is what Ellen Juntti is doing. I have said that of all sexual crimes committed, 97% are committed by men. It is not possible to say what kind of man commits sexual crimes, but it is all categories of men who commit sexual crimes. That is the major structural problem of living in an unequal society. It has to change. You can't say it's this category of men or this category of men. It's just like I said in the speaker's chair. It's all kinds of men who, unfortunately, commit sex crimes. It's dads, lawyers, rulers, ordinary men and stupid men. Now I quoted myself, because that's what I said, Ellen Juntti. What you are talking about is a proposal for a punitive measure that wanted to introduce electronic surveillance for preventive purposes. The Left Party sees electronic supervision as a punishment given when the crime has been committed and there is a conviction. Then we think that electronic monitoring is an excellent proposal. We should have more forms of electronic surveillance and more forms of punishment that are more suited to the individual who has committed the crime. For preventive purposes, we want to do so much more than just have electronic monitoring. We want an equal society. We want to destroy the patriarchal structures. We want to share power between the sexes. We want extremely many more measures than are currently available in society. The Moderates can only speak of punishment. You can only tell me when the crime has already been committed or is about to be committed. The Left Party wants an equal society, an equal society, where everyone can live in freedom.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-264	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats share the view that effective measures are needed to combat both crime and the causes of crime in order to reduce crime and increase security in society. The programme against crime together contains steps in the right direction, but as the committee's reading shows with announcements and reservations, there is also a great deal missing. When it was presented, the Christian Democrats stated that the family perspective was completely lacking. Unfortunately, this has not changed in the accounting that reaches the Riksdag or in what the Government intends to do in the future. The word family is mentioned only in terms of fatal violence in the family, when the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support is mentioned and when family homes are mentioned. It is an obvious weakness in the government's crime prevention programme. Madam President, I would like A society based on community and trust depends on people feeling safe in everyday life. Crime must therefore both be combated and prevented. When it comes to the latter, the family is an invaluable resource. The role of the family in raising and leading young people cannot be stressed enough. Research compiled by Brå shows that children who grow up with poor relationships with their parents are more likely to end up in crime. A strong relationship with parents, on the other hand, has a preventive effect and reduces the risk of children and young people being attracted to criminal settings. Every human being is ultimately responsible for his actions. Criminal acts cannot be reduced to either an upbringing or a social environment. But a supportive family policy is one of the most important efforts to minimise the risk of crime occurring from the outset. Good standards and values can be transferred between generations and therefore parental responsibility needs to be strengthened. Parents have the ultimate responsibility for raising children and young people as responsible citizens who, according to their own ability, contribute to the common good. No human is perfect, and everyone can do wrong. At the same time, no one is born to become a criminal, and everyone has a responsibility to choose the ethically right. This requires a moral compass, and it is created by training, primarily within the family. At the same time, it is important to recall that poor standards and values are also transferred between generations. This applies not least to crime. International organized crime is often held within an enlarged family of marriages. Unfortunately, the same pattern has appeared in Sweden. The police authorities have also made such observations about clan- or family-related crime. It is another important perspective to have with you when the role of the family is to be enhanced. Bad family relationships must be broken. It's in the family everything begins, and that's where children get their first role models, positive or negative. Brå's report states that other negative circumstances such as vulnerable socio-economic situations, proximity to addiction or other risk factors can be moderated by good upbringing, closeness and a loving relationship with parents. Balance and consistency are important elements, as well as an upbringing whose disciplinary elements lack threats and violence and apply constructive conflict resolution. Simply put, violence should not give birth to violence. Building strong families has always been a starting point for the Christian Democrats. It is in the family the foundation of the values that will characterize a person through the rest of his life. It is first and foremost parents who set limits, and it is in that relationship that standards are built up. The importance of the family and its important role in crime prevention need to be given greater scope in the government's crime prevention strategy. We see that the programme needs to be supplemented by this important part, and I therefore call for reservation 1. Madam President, I would like Civil society also plays an invaluable role in crime prevention. This applies not least to those who want to break a previous criminal lifestyle but also to those who are at risk of it. Civil society organisations include those who work directly to rehabilitate criminals from their previous lives into a working life. There are also those who work to help the homeless with food and shelter over their heads and those who organize homework help to help people out of exclusion. There are language cafés and sports associations. Civil society has great value. It's something other than state, friends and family. The strength of civil society lies there: it is between the state and the people. The role of civil society in crime prevention must be strengthened, as described in reservation 1. Madam President, I would like A majority in the committee believes that other important pieces of the puzzle are missing in the programme, and the committee therefore addresses five announcements to the government. The proposals concern, among other things, crime prevention work for rural and sparsely populated areas. Many of us who live outside the big cities understand from our own experience that the conditions for doing crime prevention work and the type of crime problem are different in rural and sparsely populated areas compared to the urban environment. The measures set out in the letter are good, but not sufficient. Therefore, specific rural and rural-specific crime prevention work should be developed. I also support the announcement that the helpline for unwanted sexuality should play an important role in crime prevention and that long-term funding should improve the possibilities for planning activities. There must be a national knowledge centre and a no-entry programme for young criminals. More social workers will be present outside office hours. Efforts will be made for young adults in prisons in Sweden. These are mainly men from socially vulnerable areas. It is important that there be efforts and that an investigation be set up with the task of taking a concerted approach to this group of individuals based on experience in other countries. The investigation shall propose both appropriate crime prevention measures and the content of enforcement, specifically adapted for this group. Madam President, I would like I support the motion by the Christian Democrats and, of course, the announcements proposed by the majority of the committee, but in this debate, as I said, I only call for reservation 1.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-283	Madam President, I would like The National Crime Prevention Programme Together against Crime – a national crime prevention programme has a few years on its neck. We now have to discuss the latest letter from the government on the progress of this work. We can read there that the government's commitment to crime prevention is broad and long-term and that it is urgent to maintain perseverance and continuity in the overall direction of the work. We can also read that the government has taken comprehensive measures aimed at reducing individuals' motivation, risk or drive to commit crimes. This is broad, it is extensive and, Madam President, it affects almost every single report that we have in Parliament in all committees. You could say it's a sad mess of everything and nothing. It is about security guards, probation, mental ill-health, substance abuse issues, automatic reading of car signs, financial crime at beauty parlors, explosives management and cheating with subsidies. In addition, it is of course a matter of measures against piracy of products, segregation and more police. We will also learn, for safety's sake, that a special element on crime prevention impact assessments has been introduced in the regular trainings carried out by the Government Office within the investigation service. Madam President, I would like We can be calm; there is also the Safety Preparation. The 34-point program is also included. We have heard many good contributions from my colleagues about the importance of the general and basic welfare state so that we have food on the table, as Petter Löberg said. We have also heard about the importance of equality and about the importance of small communities, families, and their importance – regardless of what they look like – is important to add. They play a huge role, not to mention the things that are often mixed up when you talk about the strong society. Some then mean the strong state, but for us liberals it is important to emphasise precisely the importance of civil society, which Ingemar Kihlström has just highlighted. It matters a lot. The report deals with the government's efforts. It is about the overall target areas that relate to processes and objectives and how to work streamlined in this work. That's good. But it is also about what is at the heart: how to reduce the motivation to commit crime, increase formal and informal control and limit access to crime targets. The latter is something difficult to interpret. Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, it is quite obvious that you have to work broadly and preventively. The best crimes are those that are never committed, and the best criminal careers – or rather the least bad – are those that are interrupted early and clearly. This is about people's chances of life – to feel that you are not desperate for the future and that you have nothing to lose. Of course, it's about jobs instead of exclusion. One basis for this is that we have a school that is functional and delivers basic results. It is about the broad fight against drugs. If life is about chasing the next fix, freedom is severely limited and the risk of crime is total. It's about increased detection risk. When you look out over Sweden's courts right now you see that there are a number of trials that lie like on a string of pearls thanks to the cracked Encrochat code. It allows us to see horrendous interiors and scenarios being played out. We see how this has led to people being first arrested and then arrested. And now the trials, which will be most interesting, will follow. Most interesting to follow and learn from in this House is the importance of being discovered. It is, of course, a little unpleasant because it undeniably touches personal integrity, but for the Liberals it is clear that there is a great possibility of securing legal certainty and privacy protection, but at the same time being able to strike at serious organised crime. It's the people at the top you're supposed to be able to access. They are the ones who make sure that they have minions, cannon food, and slaves who destroy their lives for themselves and others. This is very important if we want to work together against crime – even more important than the design of our residential areas that Petter Löberg highlighted. It's really not weird, it's also great. But tackling serious crime is crucial, for it will remove people who often have a weak talent and a weak sense of self. For the Liberals, therefore, it is not so difficult to support and support the announcements in the report. We see that this document is now added to the documents, because that is what the report says. That's what we do. However, we need to work on the area by area with resources for the judiciary. We need to work on the tools of the judiciary, and we need to ensure that leadership from our side is strong enough to bring this to the fore in all law enforcement authorities. It is absolutely crucial that it works. Later in the day, we will talk about, among other things, the regulatory framework for various coercive measures, i.e. when you can be detained. We're going to talk about the efficiency of the correctional system. It's perfectly obvious that you should be better when you come out than when you came in. Finally, Madam President – if I may take some extra time – it is important that this is conducted locally and locally. There, the important work of pooling resources in prevention itself is central. I would like to highlight what the Liberals are doing in Stockholm, where we are in fact. They are upgrading social services and introducing a 48-hour guarantee for young people who end up in crime. In practice, you put something as strange as LVU in the home, which has proved to be not working very well. It is pushing to use evidence in more cases when it comes to young criminals, i.e. to use the law on young offenders. We are committed to making real use of what is still there, but which must be strengthened by us here, namely internec tion. It is early and clear action that is important. It is better to sue in the stream than in the river, Madam President, in the case of young criminals. You make sure you have strong support efforts to secure schooling. We know that schooling and school completion are one of the strongest protection factors when everything else is shaking. It is also important to make more and more of a collaboration between school, social services and the police. Privacy is planed down to maximum to enable strong and early intervention. Preventive work is very much municipal, under municipal leadership, and deserves all the support. There are a lot of proposals here that have been discussed and decided, but also proposals that will continue to be discussed in this House. On behalf of the Liberals, I support the committee's proposal in this report. We note that that is all, and that is good. However, the risk is that there will also be a bit of nothing because everything is important.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-304	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the effectiveness of the Prison Service's institutions. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but I only support number one. Sweden has major problems with gang crime. Shootings and blasts have become everyday crimes in Sweden. A total of 366 shootings occurred last year, which meant an increase – from already high levels – from 2019 by 10 percent. The number of deaths due to gun violence was also higher than ever before when 47 people were killed, an increase of 12 per cent from the previous year. Last week, new figures came from the Crime Prevention Council showing that 124 people died of deadly violence in 2020. This is the highest figure since the measurements started in 2002, i.e. in 20 years. Of these 124 murders, 48 were committed by killing the victims. In addition to these 124, Sweden has major problems with other types of crime such as robbery, personal robbery with humiliation and sexual crimes. Sex crimes have increased a lot. In 2020, the number of reported rapes increased by as much as 9 per cent compared to 2019. It is over 9 000 victims who have had their lives destroyed more or less. Being subjected to rape is a very difficult trauma that takes a long time to learn to live with, if at all possible. In order to tackle crime, we Moderates have proposed a large number of measures. In line with our efforts on the police and our proposed punitive measures, even more people will be serving sentences in prison. That is why an effective penitentiary system is needed to deal with the increased number of prison sentences imposed. It is clear that more places are needed in detention centres and prisons. It's smocky, to put it bluntly, in both prisons and jails. The lack of space currently in prison is simply due to the fact that the government has not done enough. The Swedish National Audit Office has stated in its report that there are differences between different institutions and that some are simply ineffective in how resources are used. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, there is room for efficiency improvements at several institutions. In addition, follow-up must be improved. It is therefore necessary to make both more effective and better follow-up to see how it works and what it costs. This does not work well, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that it would mean significant cost savings for the state if the institutions were larger and fewer. All of this is worrying. An essential prerequisite for effective penitentiary care is the proper use of resources. It is taxpayers' money, and it must not be wasted in inefficient ways of working in prison. According to the Council of Europe, Swedish prison care in 2014 was among the most expensive in Europe. In addition, the annual report of the Prison Service for 2018 shows that the costs have increased since 2014. Statskontoret has compared Sweden's and Canada's costs per institution with data from 2003. Statskontoret then found that institutions in Sweden cost 60 per cent more than in Canada. The same comparison for 2018 showed that Sweden's institutions then cost 100 per cent more than Canada's. Canada is by no means a developing country or a poor country, but yet it costs 100 per cent more in Sweden than in Canada. That is, in fact, completely unreasonable. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that several of the 44 institutions analysed can use their resources more efficiently. Some have more opportunities to improve their use of resources than others. There are relatively large differences, says Riksrevisionen, and as many as 20 institutions can use their resources better. On average, institutions can make 20 percent better use of their resources. 20% is a lot. You can imagine the cost of the prison service per year. 20% of it is very much money that could be spent more efficiently – and it is taxpayers' money that is at stake. I think this is a bad result. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, there is no indication that the more efficient institutions have lower security or that the well-being of the inmates has been affected for the worse. The report shows that the average cost per location is higher for those institutions that can be more effective than for those who use resources efficiently. What does that mean? In other words, institutions that are more expensive are no better than those that have lower costs and are run cheaper. It is very important that the Prison Service uses its resources as efficiently as possible. It is clearly shown in this report. In order to gain knowledge about how to streamline operations, continuous and systematic follow-up must be carried out. Correctional services need to be given the task of developing systematic data collection procedures to make it possible to compare the effectiveness of different institutions. This also means that knowledge can be exchanged between institutions. If an institution has found a very good way to work, the other institutions should be able to learn from it. It is important to be able to monitor the activities and disseminate good practice, both for prisoners in prisons and for victims and taxpayers. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office also highlights the efficiency gains that can be generated by large-scale operations. According to their estimates, the state could save SEK 580 million per year if the prison services had 300 seats each. We Moderates have for a long time been pushing for a review of the Prison Service's capacity to develop a long-term plan for future prison establishments. The Swedish National Audit Office's report highlights the importance of such a search having to take place quickly. Correctional services will need to be provided with significant resources in the long term to ensure the safe and effective enforcement of imposed sanctions with more prison and detention places and also better content in the field of penalties. At the same time, activities must be constantly developed and streamlined in order to cope with the increase in crime and to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent as well and efficiently as possible. There are also other things that can be done here and now that could quickly increase the efficiency of the Prison Service, and that is to significantly increase the number of transfers of prisoners with foreign citizenship to their own countries. About 30 per cent of the inmates in Swedish institutions are foreign citizens. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there will be no announcement on this matter. The Government considers that the Swedish National Audit Office's report will form a basis for the continued work of the Swedish Correctional Service, but the Government does not share the Swedish Audit Office's assessment of the cost savings that a full scale large-scale operation of the Prison Service's institutions could provide. Is anyone surprised by that? At least it's not me. When has the current government taken responsibility for something that it has failed to do? Never, as I remember.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-323	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the effectiveness of the Prison Service's institutions. We in Sweden today have major problems with gang crime, shootings and deadly violence. Uncertainty is spreading. It affects our daily lives in a way that only a few decades ago would be unthinkable. Sweden, the safe country with the well-developed welfare that was seen as an example, is a thing of the past. Today, instead, Sweden is seen as an example of how bad things can go when reality is blocked away by political correctness. According to Mr Brå's latest statistics, today we have the highest number of people who die from deadly violence. Madam President, I would like As serious crime has increased and a great deal of penalties have been imposed, we now have overcrowding in our prisons of over 100%, which is totally unacceptable. We don't have seats for those who are going to be punished. The prison service itself warns against carrying out the necessary penalties because they do not have enough resources to ensure that there are enough places in prison. Overcrowding not only creates unreasonable working conditions for those working in prison but also reduces the conditions that we are expected to provide to those in our institutions for their reintegration into better citizens. The problem is two-edged: rehabilitation is getting worse for the inmates, and victims of crime are not getting redress because those who are supposed to be inmates are not serving their sentences sufficiently. For the administration of justice to work, an effective penitentiary system is needed to deal with the increased number of prisoners. Madam President, I would like Today, the Government transfers responsibility to the Correctional Service for the supply of premises on the grounds that the Correctional Service is best placed to make assessments of the size and number of institutions. It is true that the Correctional Service is the one who has the best knowledge about this. However, with the fact that the Prison Service is currently renting its premises by the state-owned company Special Properties, the Authority does not have much leeway to make the changes and extensions of institutions that the Government wants to give rise to. In addition, the Prison Service's lease contracts run for a long time, and negotiations between the parties affect the Authority's ability to be flexible and adapt its activities to changing needs. The Prison Service has repeatedly pointed out that the current approach, where the agency rents from Special Properties, affects the Authority's room for manoeuvre. In a number of other countries, the corresponding authorities own and dispose of their own premises. A similar solution should therefore be investigated in Sweden. Another aspect that should also be explored is economies of scale. The Swedish National Audit Office highlights the efficiency gains that can be generated by large-scale operations. According to their estimates, the State could save SEK 580 million per year. The government has mentioned in the letter that there is a long-term objective of moving to larger institutions, which is a good thing. However, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that economies of scale are seen in some cases as subordinate to the principle of proximity, which is contrary to the ambition of scale. This too should therefore be investigated. Madam President, I would like It is not even a matter of the fact that the Prison Service needs to be more efficient in order to get more places in prison. According to the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, Sweden annually takes about 3 000 foreign citizens into our institutions. That's over a third of everyone who goes in every year. Sweden therefore needs to be better at ensuring that other countries take responsibility for their own citizens and enforce the penalties imposed here in Sweden. There is a well-designed system in Europe for the recognition and enforcement of prison sentences. Foreign citizens who belong to another EU country and who have committed crimes in Sweden must, according to these rules, serve the sentences in their own home countries. In reality, however, this is all too rarely done. We must take this issue seriously and ensure that EU countries, as well as non-EU countries, receive their citizens and ensure that they are allowed to serve their sentences in their own home countries. If, for various reasons, it is not possible to enforce a penalty in a particular country, for example for reasons relating to human rights or because the prisons are of poor standard, it is of course better to procure agreements individually with the country concerned or with a neighbouring country so that the person in question does not have to serve his or her sentence in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has the EU's highest costs per day and is admitted to Swedish prisons. It is not justifiable that foreigners who come to Sweden and commit crimes may sit in Swedish institutions at sky-high prices. All the money spent on these criminal foreigners could have been extremely useful to our pensioners, the sick and others who need support and help most. The rehabilitation offers available in Swedish institutions should be offered to those who are to return to Swedish society and not to those who are to be expelled. These people should primarily be punished in their respective countries of origin. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-339	Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the effectiveness of the Prison Service's institutions. We believe that the report serves a purpose and that what emerges from the review should be followed up. We note, however, that the current review does not cover detention centres, detention centres or the transport activities of the Prison Service. The Center Party believes that it is very important to review the effectiveness of these parts of the Prison Service's activities as well. Madam President, I would like Prison services have an incredibly important role to play in preventing recidivism. The activities place high demands on safety, but also on humanity, and on the best possible results from the rehabilitation provided in the operations. Prison services are distinguished by being a cornerstone of the State commitment, since the Authority implements the most restrictive coercive measures that the State can take against an individual, namely detention. The task and responsibility to carry out good and effective penitentiary care is therefore one of the most important tasks of the state. Madam President, I would like The prison service is currently in a position where the housing situation in both institutions and detention centres is strained, and the situation seems to last for the future. The Center Party has already pointed out in the past that, in several cases, the situation of lengthy negotiations between the Prison Service and the State Company Special Properties, which we have heard previous speakers mention, has caused the construction of additional places of detention to stand. It has simply stopped. The Swedish National Audit Office's report confirms this problem. The standstill of expansion and rehabilitation, as one state actor cannot agree with another state actor, is, of course, totally unacceptable and ultimately a matter of lack of leadership. Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that the review shows that the effectiveness of the Prison Service is flawed, the Government chooses not to comment on this in any other way than to say that it does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment of possible cost savings. For the Center Party, it is perhaps not primarily the size of the cost savings that is the most important thing in this report. As we see it, it is a problem if good examples are not disseminated and effective practices are taken into account within the Agency. This applies not only to resource efficiency but also to the exchange of experience on measures that reduce the risk of reoccurrence of crime by prisoners. What the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows is that knowledge sharing, dissemination of good examples and application of best practice are flawed within the Prison Service. According to the Center Party, this shortcoming is particularly serious. Madam President, I would like For this reason, the Center Party believes that the Prison Service should be given the task of developing the procedures for systematic data collection that allow for smart monitoring of the effectiveness of the various units, as well as developing the work of exchanging experiences on measures that reduce the risk of recidivism. The aim of these two measures is to increase the dissemination of good practice and to apply the most cost-effective practices and approaches across the business. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-348	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has submitted a report on the effectiveness of the Prison Service's institutions. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are deficiencies in efficiency in Swedish penitentiary care. The Christian Democrats welcome the National Audit Review and believe that the Prison Service, like all other tax-funded activities, should be as cost-effective as possible. Swedish prison care is one of the most expensive in Europe. Costs have increased in recent years. It also has the coating, which has been around 100 percent. In order for the Prison Service's work to function satisfactorily, the occupancy needs to be lower. There is good reason to assume that the prison population will increase in the coming decades because serious crime does. Moreover, the Christian Democrats have an ambition to raise the penalties considerably, and this requires more prisons. The review is therefore important. Correctional services today have partially changed conditions associated with changes in client composition. Therefore, there was reason to carry out an overall analysis of the cost development of the various activities of the Prison Service. The then alliance government therefore appointed the 2014 investigation A flexible and efficient penitentiary with the mission to analyse the cost-effectiveness of the Prison Service and propose how the recurrence prevention work can be developed and strengthened, including through new forms of collaboration with other authorities and actors. The investigator was asked to report how the costs of the Prison Service for the institution, detention, care and transport services had developed since 2004. Furthermore, the investigator would analyse whether the allocation of costs was appropriate and reflect the government's priorities. An international comparison would be made, and successful international examples of relapse prevention would be studied. The assignment was to be reported before the end of 2015. Unfortunately, the Red Green Government closed the investigation. However, the Swedish Parliament announced to the government that the investigation would be resumed in accordance with report 2017/ 18:JuUl6 Criminal matters. It is now almost three years. The fact that the government continues to defy Parliament's decision is unacceptable. The Government must set up an investigation in accordance with what the Riksdag has decided in order to obtain the efficiency and resource use within the Prison Service that can be obtained if the good examples can become the norm and, for example, economies of scale are investigated. In my previous work in industry, it was self-evident to continuously evaluate and disseminate good examples in order to increase efficiency. The government should realise and do the same. Madam President, I would like The Government announces that it does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that cost savings can be made. We note that this assessment is made without the government implementing measures to review the costs, cost development or saving opportunities of the Prison Service. There are therefore good reasons to demand that the investigation resume with the addition that it should take the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions into account and investigate and propose more effective measures in line with the best practice found by the Swedish National Audit Office, such as the improvement potential in larger and fewer institutions. The Christian Democrats have a number of reservations. One concerns, among other things, the effectiveness of the Prison Service. The report shows that knowledge sharing, dissemination of good practice and application of best practice are flawed within the Prison Service. The Agency should therefore be given the task of developing the procedures for systematic data collection and developing an exchange of experience on measures that reduce the risk of recidivism. We also have a reservation about the capacity of the Prison Service. It is important to ensure that capacity exists and that there is a concrete and long-term plan for expansion and future prison establishments. Madam President, I would like Reservation 6 is about the investigation An efficient and flexible penitentiary. It will analyse the cost-effectiveness of the Prison Service and propose ways to develop and strengthen relapse prevention. As I have said before, we believe that the investigation should be resumed, and this means that I am now in favour of reservation 6. I naturally support the claims and reservations of the Christian Democrats, but I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 6.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-357	Madam President, I would like Now that we are talking about the prison system, I would like to begin my speech by thanking all the people who work within it and who make sure that people who come there are hopefully better when they come out than when they came in. All these people are doing an extremely important job, and that is linked to what we have debated earlier today. If we join forces against crime, we can also ensure that the risk of relapse is reduced. Having said that, it is clear that there is, however, a crisis in the area of penitentiary services. The years up to 2018, before we got the last government in place in the framework of the January agreement, the leadership consisted of putting their heads in the sand and postponing most of it. After all, it was not that there was no expansion of the police force or that there was more stringent penalties. We also saw that international crime was gaining a stronger grip in Sweden as well. If, for reasons of efficiency, old institutions that have sometimes existed for centuries are closed, new ones must also be built. This has been postponed due to unwillingness to take these investments and inability to manage the two government entities Prison Services and Special Properties. But we can now conclude that since 2017, the Liberals have been pushing for more institutions than they have done in 50-60 years. A huge number of new institutions are being built. However, they will take 5-7 years to build, and then they will have staff and so on. It's a huge device to open up new penitentiary. Waiting for it to be completed, the prison services are under a lot of pressure. The rest rooms, monasteries, course yards and summer cottages are used for prison places. Some of the old prisons have thrown out the new activities that have been established and started the prison service again. This is absolutely necessary, because the effects of the government's lack of management over the last seven years are less treatment, less education and less employment opportunities. As was also mentioned in the last debate, we are talking about people who may never have worked and who have to learn how to eat on the table in an honest way. This means that some inmates end up in the wrong place, i.e. people are pushed out into the lowest security class in our correctional institutions, which means that the risk of crime or escape is quite high. Worse still, there have been queues. Despite all these resting rooms and monasteries and duplicating in our prisons, there is a queue, a soning queue, into the penitentiary. What then, Madam President? Well, look and behold, sometimes people in the queue commit new crimes. They can commit quite serious crimes, and with current criminal law in Sweden it is largely criminal. We're talking about people with very low self-esteem, low empathy and often drug abuse, so it's also a pity for the people who are going into prison to get help with their lives – the rest of their lives, hopefully. They commit new crimes, and new victims will be affected. It's a stop in the system, so to speak. That's not good. Liberals will continue to push for the further construction of new institutions. A lot of what is now being used as emergency measures is, of course, something that leads to that the next report from the Swedish National Audit Office will also show that there is a lack of efficiency. When we rebuild training centres into prisons, it is not entirely obvious that there will be greater efficiency in terms of neither cost nor content, given that rehabilitation is important. The reservations contained in the report are very much based on efficiency. Liberals are behind reservation number 1, which actually includes a lot of other reservations. It is about detention, care and transport not being part of the investigation from the Swedish National Audit Office but also about the issue of economies of scale. The latter is also a question of efficiency and how to measure and whether to measure efficiency now. Of course, if we had three prisons – the North, the Middle and the South – and 1 500 or 2 000 in each unit, it would be cheaper. But would it be better to interact with programmes to get outside the walls, parole and so forth? It's not safe. However, I only support reservation 1. There is much more to be done, and we in the Liberals will do what we can to ensure that the expansion of high-quality sites with high content continues in the future. However, we are impressed by the work done by all the staff in the prison services today under pretty tough conditions.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-368	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the motion to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. In my assignment, I have had the privilege of visiting detention centres and prisons around Sweden. It is very important to come to such a closed and alien environment and take part in people's lives and the work done by the staff in the business with the goal that the client will come out better after serving the sentence. Unfortunately, physical visits have not been possible in the last year, for obvious reasons. The spread of infection has been kept to a limited extent thanks to restraining orders and leave. Sweden has done well in comparison with other countries when it comes to limiting the spread of infection in prisons. There are 45 prisons in the country, divided into three security classes. Over the past few years, the occupancy of detention centres and prisons has increased sharply. Last autumn, the lack of space was so great that the agency set up a crisis management staff to increase the work on finding more places within the existing structure with a short decision-making stage. For the second year in a row, Prison Care reports a report on site capacity in 2021 – 2030. The site supplement plan is revised up sharply compared to last year, as the occupancy rate has continued to increase. This amounts to an increase from 2 000 to 3 400 permanent posts, divided into 900 in custody and 2 500 in prison. Planning is under way for the construction and conversion of institutions. Nevertheless, the Authority expects that there will continue to be a need for temporary and double beds. With increased space capacity, there is also a growing need for skills and training. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the resource efficiency at the Prison Service's institutions during the period 2015– 2018 and analysed whether the operations work in an effective way in establishing and disseminating good practices in the organisation. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Prison Service to step up efforts to make the institutions larger and fewer and to develop procedures to enable systematic monitoring of the effectiveness of the institution's operations. The committee shares the government's assessment that the Swedish National Audit Office's report will contribute to the Prison Service's continued efforts to streamline, develop and improve its operations. However, the calculations made for possible cost savings with fewer and larger institutions should be interpreted with caution. They provide valuable guidance and are something that the Prison Service has already included in its plan regarding future needs for places and institutions. However, following the proposal in full is unrealistic, Madam President, because it presupposes that the organisation is changed from scratch and that two thirds of the institutions are closed down and a number of new ones are being built. To this must also be added that the lack of space has increased after the time that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed. Madam President, I would like Efficiency is measured in money but also in quality. The Prison Service carries out activities with people and for people. Every day it is a matter of ensuring, as far as possible, that each common tax chandelier is used as efficiently as possible, and of developing and improving the activities of those for whom it is intended. It is important to take advantage of the employees' expertise and experience and to disseminate good practices. This development mission is a responsibility for everyone, and the management's special responsibility is to have confidence in the staff who work closest to the clients. Correctional services need to improve system support and seize the opportunities of digitalisation for more efficient operational development. Perhaps the period we are living in now, with a health crisis and a pandemic, can also speed up this development in the Prison Service's activities. At the last Transparency Council, we were able to take part in the Prison Service's work to take a comprehensive approach to important future issues. It is about improving and strengthening the capacity of the mission and developing the quality of the operations, about additional skills provision and active leadership and co-workership, and about the need for increased coordination and efficiency, as some key elements. To this, Madam President, will also be added the work that is being done to deepen and develop collaboration between the Prison Service and other authorities, such as the police and the Prosecutor's Office, where more formalised cooperation aims to ensure that the different parts of the judiciary more clearly link each other and where the parts together contribute to greater efficiency throughout the legal chain. Madam President, I would like I assume that the Swedish National Audit Office's report and observations will be a support in the Prison Service's continued work on this.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-383	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to pick up on what Johan Pehrson from the Liberals said. I am also a member of the Prison Service's Transparency Council, just like Ödbrink. The correctional services work very hard trying to get as many places as they can, and they also work very much with covid and have managed quite well. So they do what they can. But it is not possible to get away from the fact that prison places are extremely expensive in Sweden. As I said in my speech, Statskontoret has compared Sweden's and Canada's costs per prison place with data from 2003. It was then found that the places were 60 per cent more expensive in Sweden than in Canada. The same comparison was made in 2018 and showed that Sweden's institutions cost 100 per cent more than Canada's. The differences have increased further, from 60 to 100 %. Then one might ask: Is it reasonable that the prison places in Sweden cost 100 percent more than they cost in Canada? We don't think moderates do. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the institutions can, on average, be 20 percent better at using their resources. It is the government that has the main responsibility for the proper use of resources. I would therefore like to ask Carina Ödbrink how the government intends to do so that the places of detention are not so expensive and so much more expensive than in Canada, for example. How to make sure that the money is simply spent better?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-387	Madam President, I would like I listened carefully to Ellen Junttis speech, and for a little while I got the feeling that the speaker was the old Social Democrat Gustav Möller, who said that every wasted crown is a theft from the people. But it was not Gustav Möller but the Member Juntti. In this context, however, I share Mrs Junttis view: we shall use the money as efficiently as possible. But before you make the comparison that exists in the report between the cost in Canada and Sweden, you probably need to dig a little deeper into this to see that there are really the right things being compared. My view, based on the information I get from the Transparency Council, where Ellen Juntti is also involved, is that these issues are continuously being worked on in order to run the business as cost-effectively and with as good quality as possible. The plan for capacity and need of places for the next few years has been developed. It will be revised annually. At the last meeting, we also had a move on the need to take a more integrated approach to important internal future issues, but also, of course, to the question of relations with other authorities, in order to carry out the best possible activities. In these parts there are no differences of opinion between me and Ellen Juntti. But what I would like to ask is: if you are now going to save 20% or 300 million, as the report talks about, it assumes that you have a blank paper – is this what Ellen Juntti thinks we should do?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-391	Madam President, I would like I can start by saying that Carina Ödbrink compared me to a social democrat – help! No, I'm just kidding. When it comes to what to do, it is actually the government that has the main responsibility, so it is Carina Ödbrink who should have the answer to how to streamline this. I also mentioned in my speech that what can be done here and now is to significantly increase the transfer of prisoners with foreign citizenship to their own countries; this was also raised by Katja Nyberg from the Swedish Democrats. In other words, 30 per cent of all prisoners in Swedish prisons are foreign citizens. A few years ago, according to the figures at the time, each prison place cost 1.2 million a year. Probably it has become more expensive now that it has been a few years. So it's a lot of money. We want these prisoners to be transferred to their own countries of origin. It also benefits them – they find it easier to re-integrate when they are in their home countries, where they know the language and may be close to family and so on. We would like to see a great deal of effort being made to increase this. What does the government intend to do in this regard? Are you planning to increase the transmissions significantly? Do you see that it is a problem that 30% of all those in prison are foreign citizens?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-396	Madam President, I would like No, Ellen Juntti can be calm. I don't think I'll ever associate Ellen Juntti with a social democrat. We have different opinions. Sometimes it may sound like we have more disparate views than we really do, and I think this can be important to emphasise. On many of the important issues in our area, there is usually more consensus than it may sound in the general debate. I think that's a little unfortunate. The question of the transfer of enforcement of penalties is a matter of priority for the government. It will of course continue to work hard on, because it is a piece of the puzzle in ensuring that we can have a capacity that meets the needs we have over time. The government has been clear. Resources have been added to the Prison Service, but the Government has also made it clear in regulatory letters that it wants to get an account of what the capacity and needs look like and how the resources are used. That is why the site capacity plan, which Ellen Juntti is well aware of, has been developed. In the regulation letter to Prison Service for 2020, this is also a priority for the government. The work on solving the challenges that the Prison Service actually faces today is ongoing and continues.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-400	Madam President, I would like The situation in Sweden's institutions has been strained for a very long time. The situation is urgent. It's getting dangerous for the employees and the clients. What the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out in its report is good and necessary. These are possible economies of scale and the dissemination of good practice. There is always potential for improvement within public authorities. But what is also needed is a long-term political perspective. The government's eagerness to act has increased the penalties both one way and the other. Does the President know what happens when the sentences are extended? Well, the time a client is in prison is just getting long. There will be fewer empty seats. Persons convicted of crimes cannot appear and may walk free on our streets. The Left Party has been pointing out for a long time that the prisons need to be renovated and that the only solution is not the imprisonment penalty. There need to be several different types of alternative punishments that courts can impose. It is dangerous for both staff and clients when overcrowding is as large as it is. There are other longer-term solutions when it comes to overcrowding, such as building modular buildings, as has been done at Anstalten Skenäs, which is located at home in Norrköping. Freedom must be extended, and there must be more forms of punishment in freedom. Electronic monitoring with anklets and various forms of digital surveillance works excellent as punishment while freeing places so that serious criminals can quickly get a place in prison. It is also possible to begin the early release of parole in order to release places in prisons so that newly sentenced persons can enter prisons and persons who have almost served their sentence can be released. But there are two major reforms that will make the situation in the prisons even more unmanageable and society more insecure. It is to remove the youth reduction, the so-called penalty discount for young people, and to begin to pine on when the conditional release can occur. If the parole is removed, three things will happen: Overcrowding in the prisons is even greater. People will be left with a plastic bag outside the prison fence without the possibility of assistance and support from the Prison Service. And crime will increase. If the youth reduction is removed, three things will happen: the overcrowding in the prisons is even greater. The young people will be locked up with long sentences and come out as adult gang leaders. And crime will increase. What the Correctional Service needs are three things: that people no longer need to be in prison but can be released on parole with an extended care, that more people enforce their sentence in freedom rather than in prison, and that they renovate and build new institutions. There are choices to be made between what works and reduces crime and what increases crime. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-411	Madam President, I would like Although it is disputed whether Gustav Möller really was the one who said that every wasted tax crown is a theft from the people, most politicians are probably both now and historically agreed that cost-effectiveness in public activities is important. We will get as much as possible from the tax money collected by the state and the municipalities. It is therefore welcome that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the effectiveness of the Prison Service's institutions. However, cost-effectiveness is one of several aspects of welfare and public activity. The business is an important goal in itself. The state has no profit interest but an interest that the business will be as good as possible in a cost-effective way. For the Prison Service, it is about those sentenced to prison to the lowest possible degree to relapse into crime after the sentence has been served. From this perspective, it is good to have a basis on what size is optimal for institutions so that measures can be individually adapted as far as possible. This applies to those who are in prison and who want to make up for missed schooling or in other ways prepare to get out to an honest job. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is that approximately 300 seats are the optimal size of a prison. Madam President, I would like However, it should be borne in mind that the issue is complex. Earlier, a number of years ago, I was a leisure politician in Region Skåne. At that time we often had debates about what the hospital structure should look like. What would an optimal hospital be like? It was about the number of care places and employees and about what positions it would be and so on. Making a model of it is one thing, but reality does not always look like the models. It's about health care, and it's about prisons. Neither hospitals nor prisons are something you build in a hurry, on a coffee break or so. These are very long lead times. It is planning and decisions, and often appeals, before the shovel is put into the ground and it is finally initiation of what has been built. It has to be expected that it will take ten years from the planning stage until a new prison is completed. Sometimes it can take even longer. Madam President, I would like In the mid-00s several prisons were closed down in Sweden. There was a surplus in places. The premises used were worn out. What has happened since then is that more people have been sentenced to prison, especially for longer periods of time in prison. The need has therefore changed in a relatively short time. The need for places has increased. It has increased faster than we have found new places. It is now planned for new institutions, including in Kalmar and Trelleborg. It's necessary. It's necessary. Today, there is a large overcrowding in the Prison Service. This has many negative consequences, not least from the point of view of staff. But it is also about the possibility of maintaining the premises. Is the occupancy rate above 100 per cent is of course extremely critical. It needs to be 85 - 90 per cent in order to maintain the premises as needed. Of course, it is also bad for the inmates when the prisons are crowded. Then the possibility of equipping oneself to live a normal life after served sentence becomes worse. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-419	Madam President, I would like We have debated this with long-term planning conditions within the prison system a few times. It is incredibly important when it is such processes where it takes seven to nine years to get an institution started and there are also long processes before that. If there is any municipality that wants an institution, there are certainly some who say that they do not want it, and then there will be sort of a referendum on the matter. That's weird, too. Rasmus Ling quoted this as empty seats a number of years ago. It was a consequence of the fact that the Supreme Court hastily and perhaps less amusingly had the idea of halving the drug penalty in Sweden, which of course contributed to the sale of smuggling and selling drugs and shoeing on it and its mortality. That's a bad effect. Get back to planning! Can we liberals trust that the Green Party is on the train now that we are looking at the budget for next year? It is about continuing the effort to expand the sites, because more resources are needed to get them out to the institutions, but we also need to invest in the content so that we get quality and so that people who are admitted to the institution have a chance not only to be kept but also to get out of there better. Does the Green Party intend to support the Liberals in the fight for long-term sustainable penitentiary care?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-423	Madam President, I would like Just as Johan Pehrson points out, in the construction of new institutions there is a long planning horizon, and sometimes things come up along the way. In Svedala it was a very long time ago, but there were parties that changed at the last moment, and there was a referendum that gave a no. This meant that the Correctional Service lost several years and that you had to start over in the next place. I hope, of course, that there will be better planning in the municipalities that are now the subject of the debate about getting institutions so that it will not be the same thing again, because then we will lose even more time. Madam President, I would like As for the reason why there were empty seats in the mid-00s, the Supreme Court made such a change that had consequences. Nevertheless, the political decision was behind this. It could have been handled differently and invested in equipping premises, moving prisoners to other prisons and acting in a different way, so the situation would not have been as it is today. It is, of course, easy to be hindsighted, but if you were not satisfied from a political point of view that the drug penalty was lower, you could have had anticipation and prepared changes to the legislation. They didn't. Madam President, I would like With regard to the budget for next year, I am naturally curious about how the Liberals will act. We have had budget cooperation these years, and we will see how the Liberals will deal with it in the future. On behalf of the Green Party, we are very proud that during these years in government we have strengthened the judiciary in a way that has been needed. We see that there will also continue to be a need for it. Then, of course, we will come back to what the budget should look like this autumn. It will be those who negotiate it, but for the Green Party the direction is clear.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-429	Madam President, I would like A term of office is not a social game. The fact that the Green Party is part of the government is a consequence of the fact that we reached a January agreement in which we, the Liberals, recorded a number of important parameters, including the fact that we were going to equip the rule of law. That's where the Correctional Services are. As regards the issue of drug punishment, it has come back after this abrovink from the Supreme Court and has tried to tighten up the penalties for particularly serious drug offences and also to tighten up the penalties for drug offences in general. We will negotiate, be so sure! The core of the rule of law will stand against other things when we negotiate on this. We worked together this parliamentary term, and after that we will see. It's the voters' choice. We'll see how it goes for both the Liberals and the Green Party – it can be exciting for both actually, if you're to be completely honest. We have set up an investigation together, which will soon come up with its report. It concerns the expulsion of non-Swedish citizens who commit crimes. For many, many years, the Liberals' opinion has been that we say: Welcome to Sweden! Here we work and behave, but if you commit a number of crimes you are quite quickly undesirable. Then you have to be expelled to your home country, where rehabilitation and reintegration are done in the best possible way. You're not supposed to be here to steal, beat up and rob or whatever you're doing. My first question is: does the Green Party support this investigation by extension? This will reduce pressure on the prison system and reduce costs for Swedish taxpayers. My second question is this: can the Green Party consider making any effort to speed up this process so that, in the existing system, prisoners are transferred to their home countries more quickly?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-435	Madam President, I would like The investigation into expulsion due to crime is working on this, and when it is completed we will analyse the results and see what we will present. I am no stranger to the fact that, in more cases than today, they are to be deported because of crime. As far as transfers to other countries are concerned, it is not always as simple as it might sound in such a debate. There are many countries that are seriously lacking in human rights and where people are at risk of being treated in a way that we in Sweden do not think is okay. I also don't think the Liberals want people to get corporal punishment and the like. We have nothing in principle against what the investigation is looking at. Madam President, I would like When it comes to equipping the rule of law, we have done so in these six years that we have been in government. It's been necessary. The police have more resources now than ever before. It is important that it continues and that the rule of law is strengthened while we also need to do a lot more than we are doing today to prevent and prevent this happening at all. Finally, Madam President, I will correct Johan Pehrson. We did not have budget cooperation during this term of office, but we have it as far as I know – as long as the Liberals will now be on the train.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-439	Madam President, I would like This is the third debate on the agenda of the Committee on Justice and Justice, and now it is a question of the Government's proposal for more effective handling of detentions and reduced isolation. The Government has made a number of proposals in its proposal. One of the proposals is that a suspect should be detained as a starting point for no longer than six months until prosecution is instituted. If the suspect is under 18 years of age, the maximum duration is three months. There have been many tours in this matter. We've been going back and forth for almost a year. First, a maximum of six months was proposed for adults, and then it was changed to nine months. It was then proposed that the time limit be removed completely for adults, and then the proposal was changed back to nine months for adults. That's how it can go. The proposal today is therefore nine months for adults and three months for suspects under the age of 18. If there are exceptional reasons, times may be exceeded. According to the Government, the proposals contribute to increased legal certainty and to a greater impact on children's rights. We Moderates think the opposite is true, and that is why we do not want these deadlines to be introduced. We support all our reservations, but we only ask for approval for number two. Madam President, I would like Serious violence has reached historically high levels in Sweden. In 2020, 366 shootings took place, and 47 people were shot dead. It is a shooting every day – everyday crime in Sweden! A while ago, a 25 - year - old was shot to death in the afternoon, and the evening news did not even mention it. It is so common with these murders in Sweden. The development is frightening. According to the police, the violence has become incredibly severe. In the past, criminals shot in the leg to be intimidated. Today, they shoot in the head to kill. In addition to these people who have been shot to death, a lot of people have been injured in these shootings. To this will be added explosions of various kinds, that juvenile robbery and sexual crime have increased sharply, and that crime is creeping further and further down the age range. Development is very serious, and more and more effective tools are needed. An important tool is the possibility of arresting persons who commit serious crimes. The so-called capacitation effect – simply locking up – is both law enforcement and crime prevention, and it is an important prerequisite for investigating serious crimes. Arrests should be accompanied by restrictions in order not to complicate investigations. This may, for example, mean that the prisoner must not contact anyone out there who can destroy the police investigation. We see clear limitations on the possibility of detention by law enforcement authorities. For example, the regulatory framework is not adapted to the current situation of the growing and increasingly serious juvenile delinquency. Young people who are arrested for very serious crimes can be back on the street the same day – although there is a high risk of recidivism. Madam President, I would like The starting point of the proposal is that the proposals should not impair the ability of law enforcement authorities to investigate crimes. Of course, no one thinks that anyone should be detained longer than necessary, but setting deadlines is quite the wrong way to go. We Moderates see a great risk that people who should be detained will be released with the proposed deadlines. There are other ways of shortening detention periods, including strengthening the National Forensic Centre and short processing times. These are over three months even in priority cases. We Moderates also want to lower the limit for compulsory detention. Today, for crimes with minimum imprisonment for two years, detention must always take place. In the face of serious crime, we Moderates want to get criminals out of the street quickly, and so we want to lower the limit for compulsory detention to one year instead of today's two years. This would include compulsory arrest for aggravated assault, robbery and extortion. You don't automatically get arrested when you've been guilty of aggravated assault. I think most people think that's wrong. At least we Moderates think it's wrong. We Moderates also want to lower the limit for the arrest of young people and set up special juvenile detention centres. As more and more young people commit serious crimes, more young people need to be detained so that they do not come out and threaten the plaintiff and witnesses to silence. I have spoken to many police officers and prosecutors who believe that this proposal is important, both to ensure that the police investigation is not destroyed and to break a criminal path for young people. Therefore, special youth detention needs to be set up, adapted to the needs and conditions of young people. I have mentioned in the past that crime is spreading further and further down the age range. Criminal gangs do not hesitate to use children as young as ten years of age to start running errands for them. There is a great risk that some years later these children have become hardened criminals. According to the Juvenile Attorney General I've been talking to, it's as common today that the gang killers are under 18 years of age as they are over 18 years of age. It is very important to take strong action to break the recruitment of children to gangs. A number of different reforms are needed here. The best thing, of course, is to prevent crime, and that is where school is very important. Similarly, it is important to strengthen the responsibility and role of parents. In this respect, I would add that in the past we have debated the issue of setting up a national centre of knowledge to help break young people's path into crime by developing no entry programmes. The police have repeatedly pointed out that the recruitment to the gangs is extensive. When crimes are committed, it is important that the rule of law intervenes early and clearly. The right tools need to be given to police and prosecutors, and that is why the proposal for maximum time for detention is a very bad proposal. Several referrals are critical. Among other things, the Prosecutor's Office fully rejects the proposal for a time limit for the arrest of suspects under the age of 18. The justification is that it is not uncommon for the offences to be committed by the perpetrators who are under the age of 18 together with older offenders. In these cases, it can be devastating," says the Prosecutor's Office, for the entire criminal investigation if the detention needs to be lifted even for one of the suspects. The Prosecutor's Office also points out that the difference in detention times will increase incentives for older criminals to exploit and induce persons under 18 years of age to commit serious crimes or to take the blame for a crime that someone else has committed. This is also the view of several other consultation bodies, including the Ombudsman for Justice and the Swedish Bar Association. Madam President, I would like The ecosystem reported in December 2020 that more young people are being recruited into criminal networks. Six of the seven police regions of the country reported that children as young as 12 were recruited. The police in both Stockholm and Gothenburg stated that they involved hundreds of children who performed acts for criminal networks, such as transporting drugs or weapons. Did you hear what I said? Hundreds of children in both Gothenburg and Stockholm are forced by gang criminals to join their cases and commit crimes on their behalf. It's terrible. One can only feel sorry for the children who are forced to do this. Four out of seven police regions reported that the recruitment of children has increased in recent years and that children have become younger. At this point, the government therefore wants to introduce legislative changes that provide additional incentives to force young people to commit crimes. Where's the child's perspective? A while ago, nine prosecutors and policemen wrote an article on DN Debate. They're trained senior prosecutors and experienced police officers who work every day against serious crimes. These professionals feel that it is already difficult to have someone under the age of 18 arrested. With the proposal now on our table, i.e. a maximum limit of three months, the bar will be further raised. It is therefore already very difficult, but it will be even more difficult. In 2020 12 persons under the age of 18 were detained for more than three months before charges were brought. Six of these were suspected of murder, and the others were suspected of attempted murder, kidnapping and other serious crimes. The fact that there are not many shows that there are only few cases where people under the age of 18 are detained longer than three months. This shows that the judicial system takes detention periods seriously and does not keep anyone in custody longer than is necessary to investigate serious crimes. In this position raising the bar further for detention is completely the wrong way to go. The prosecutors and the police state in the debate article that maximum time for detention will mean that it will be even more difficult to investigate serious crimes as there is a risk of the suspect being released from custody and can destroy the police investigation, which must then be closed down. The perpetrator can then continue his criminal course, and the victim of the crime will not get redress. The debate article also shows that young people will be increasingly exploited by older people to commit crimes. I ask Morgan Johansson and his government the following question: why is he distrusting the country's experienced senior prosecutor and police officers? Does Morgan Johansson and the government believe that Sweden's experienced senior prosecutor and police officers keep suspects under 18 years of age in custody for fun? We moderates do not distrust these experienced professionals, who work hard every day to combat serious crime. We trust that no one will be detained longer than necessary, but no shorter than necessary, to investigate serious crimes. In conclusion, this is a very bad proposal. This will mean that many serious crimes cannot be prosecuted and that many young people will be forced into crime. The proposal is really bad.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-466	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report More effective management of detention and less isolation. Serious crime has increased and has led to a larger number of complex cases that take a long time for the police to investigate. They affect prosecutors, courts and also the National Forensic Centre, which, with greater investigative pressure from the police, has more cases to investigate. The Swedish Democrats share the Government's ambition to shorten detention periods because there is no self-worth with long detention periods. But the government begins at the wrong end, exacerbating the problems it is trying to solve. Shorter processing times require more resources, not regulated detention times. There is a risk that, in their eagerness to reduce the length of proceedings, investigations are being sabotaged and legal certainty is being undermined, in order to save a few more money on the judicial system. The government has proposed a six-month detention period. The proposal now on the table means nine months, that courts should decide on the individual restrictions to be imposed and that prosecutors should present a timetable. The proposal is expected to lead to increased efficiency, shorter detention periods and reduced restricted use. The Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, believe, however, that this is not the case. The introduction of a time limit does not automatically mean shorter detention periods, but it will increase the administrative burden and entail additional work for the police, prosecutors and NFCs, the National Forensic Centre. Madam President, I would like The starting point is that a suspect should be able to be detained for the longest period of six months until charges have been brought is problematic. If the suspect has not reached the age of 18, the corresponding period is three months. Times may only be exceeded if there are exceptional reasons, for example when the suspected offence is difficult to establish because it forms part of organised crime or gang-related crime. However, when it comes to detention times over six months, it is not always a question of organised or gang-related crime, but it may be a case of aggravated child pornography offences, sexual abuse with scrutiny of storage media, serious drug offences or serious gun crimes with DNA and fingerprints or cases with international connections where police are dependent on assistance from other countries. This work is time-consuming and must be allowed to take its time in order for the investigation work to be declared legally secure. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal for a maximum period of three months for persons under the age of 18 will most likely mean that an increasing number of younger people will be exploited and risk relapsed into serious crime. The danger is that older criminals will exploit younger ones and induce young people to commit crimes that they would not otherwise have committed. Madam President, I would like The introduction of a tight deadline and the need for exceptional reasons to allow it to be abandoned is a risk that suspected criminals will be released, fleeing, relapsing into crime or making investigations more difficult. This may also mean that suspects require further investigative measures in order to reach the time limit, thereby affecting the investigation work, which cannot be completed before the suspect is released from custody. When the suspect responds, no comment is made throughout the investigation but is still allowed to present a story during the main hearing, all possible investigation angles must be investigated to take height for any stories that may come out at a main hearing, which can lead to long detention periods. The Swedish order of proceedings with the immediate principle means that the information provided at the main hearing in the district court is what applies. If, instead, greater emphasis were placed on what has been said in police questioning, the need for restrictions would be drastically reduced. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal will increase the administrative burden on police and prosecutors as they are placed on additional tasks without being given tools to carry them out. Instead, the government should focus on giving more resources to the police, prosecutors and the National Forensic Centre so that it is possible to counteract and remove the bottlenecks that exist today and which can lead to long detention periods. The police cannot work more quickly just for a time limit to be imposed, of course. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats oppose the proposal that prosecutors should not be allowed to decide on the type of restrictions that apply to the suspect. The proposal seems to be based on the view that prosecutors are not doing their job properly but are announcing too many restrictions. The prosecutor needs to use restrictions in order for the suspect not to be able to influence the investigation by, for example, threatening witnesses or influencing plaintiffs to change information. In order to determine which restrictions apply to a suspect, you need to be familiar with the preliminary investigation, and this requires both skill and expert knowledge. The proposal risks undermining the role of the prosecutor, who is and must continue to be independent. In addition, the Swedish procedural system, in which the court does not take part in the preliminary investigation as a whole at the investigation stage, would have to be disregarded in order for the court to take informed decisions. The line between prosecutors as investigators and judges would be erased. It would also mean that detention proceedings would take longer, and that is not an effective way of using state resources. Madam President, I would like The Government also proposes that prosecutors report a timetable in connection with a prosecuting extension. It will impose an additional administrative burden on prosecutors and a requirement for written documents that may include information covered by preliminary investigation secrecy. Moreover, prosecutors already state today why the extension was requested, so it is a completely unnecessary measure. Madam President, I would like In order to quickly remove serious criminals from the street, the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, want to lower the limit of compulsory detention from crimes with the minimum sentence imprisonment for two years to crimes with the minimum sentence imprisonment for one year. More criminals could then be locked up directly in connection with the crime and detained until they had served a possible prison sentence. This would mean that we would have a greater capacitation effect and could tackle crimes such as aggravated assault, robbery and serious blackmail. Madam President, I would like It is important to provide the police and prosecutors with the necessary tools to enable them to carry out their work. The prosecutor needs to be able to hold people in custody until the preliminary investigation is concluded and charges are filed. One needs to be able to determine which individual restrictions are to be notified and not have to regularly present a detailed timetable. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-480	Madam President, I would like In the end, the arrest bill is on Parliament's table, after many turns and pangs. I need to start with some curiosity in this context. It is the Centre Party's full committee member, Johan Hedin, who has been working on this matter. When he was on parental leave, he thought coldly that the matter would be decided and ready when he came back, but that was not the case. And when it's time to debate and decide, well, then he'll blow it. That is why I am the one standing here, and I will focus only on a few parts of this rather comprehensive report. The issue of restrictions on detention periods is a complex, very important and serious issue. I have great respect for everyone who has worked on this issue and this report. I have great respect for the police, prosecutors, judges and lawyers who have been involved in this in many ways, and I have great respect for all those who have contributed with referrals to the numerous questions that the committee has put to directly involved in this. These referrals are sometimes in fact directly opposed to each other, so there is no doubt whatsoever that this is a complex issue. The arrest of a person suspected of a crime is often a prerequisite for investigating and prosecuting the crime. In some cases, detention is required to be prolonged, and longer detention periods occur, of course, in serious crimes that take longer to investigate. However, we cannot ignore the fact that international criticism has been levelled at Sweden, recurring and for a long time, precisely as regards the fact that there is no limit to the length of the detention period. The criticism has come, among other things, from the Special Committee of the Council of Europe on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment. The criticism has also come from the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, which monitors compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. There has also been criticism at the lack of deadlines at national level, including from the Ombudsman for Children. We therefore think that something must be done, Madam President. The introduction of time limits for detention, of course with the possibility of extension, is a proposal supported by the Center Party. International comparisons show that it is not very likely that investigations would be damaged by, lower quality or lead to fewer convictions if deadlines were imposed. Rather, it is other factors that are crucial for more effective investigations, such as the possibility of early interrogations that can be used in the probing of evidence in the main hearings and a reform of the immediate principle, which can be good from a victim's point of view. Other measures that can streamline criminal investigations and thus shorten detention periods are more resources for the National Forensic Centre, as well as more modern rules for seizures and searches. We therefore believe that this can complement, not resist, the provisions on time limits for detention. The aim is to shorten detention periods. Madam President, I would like There has also been a need to review the situation of children detained as a result of suspected crime. The Center Party believes that the direction of the bill is well-lawed and broadly agrees with the proposals put forward. According to the Government's proposal, those who have not turned 18 and who are arrested or arrested shall be detained under police arrest only if strictly necessary. The young person should be placed as a starting point in a place other than under police arrest. The Center Party agrees that the police arrest is generally not an appropriate environment for a child – it is often a messy and sometimes violent environment – and that the starting point should always be to find an alternative location. At the same time, it is, of course, urgent to accept detention in police arrest, unless an alternative location is available, in cases where there are the particular reasons necessary for the detention of a child as a result of suspicion of a crime. It will, of course, be wrong if children who meet the already very high standards of detention are released only on the grounds that detention in police custody cannot be considered acceptable. The interpretation of whether detention in police arrest is absolutely necessary should therefore be based on whether alternative placements are available. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-491	Madam President, I would like For a year I have been waiting for this legislation. For a year, work to put children's rights first has been on the line. Children are children regardless of the action they commit, and children should be treated as children. The detention of children is extremely difficult. It is an aggressive measure that should preferably not have to be used at all, and when used it should be done with reflection. I am pleased with the decision put on Parliament's table and with the fact that the parties that put children first have been able to agree in a compromise that suspects who are not yet 18 years of age can be detained for a maximum of three months. This is not the policy of the Left Party, and we remain in favour of banning the detention of children. However, we support the proposal that is being debated today. Even the arrest of adults is a very drastic measure that I feel many are waving away as something very simple. Sitting in isolation in a cell almost every day is not a game, but it is in bloody seriousness – this shows the great mental illness that isolation entails. Sweden has repeatedly received criticism from the UN and the Council of Europe's torture committee about the long detention periods that Sweden has. Crime is taking a long time to investigate, and crime is becoming more and more complicated. But there must be a deadline. The fact that we decide today that the maximum limit for detention is nine months is reasonable. This is a long time for the prisoner, and it is extremely important that the right to stay with other people at least four hours a day becomes a reality. However, nine months also allow police and prosecutors to conduct a thorough investigation that takes time. On the one hand, on the other. The policy of justice The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats stand for something quite different. It's a way of looking at people who are incredibly reality-averted. There's everything black or white. A suspect is always guilty and is to be judged. A detention period without a time limit is something that you want to pass through through through a trial procedure in the Riksdag. I'm really scared and worried about that way of conducting politics. What surprises me most is the gambling concern about children who commit crimes and that the Moderates really believe that children will not be exploited by criminals if the detention period for children is really long– as if gross criminal gang leaders would suddenly start caring about the children because the detention periods for children are long. They won't, because there are so many kids to recruit into the gangs. This is an incredibly serious problem, but it is not solved by extending detention periods. Ensuring that children are neither involved in criminal gangs nor commit crimes themselves is a major and serious matter, but there is neither the time of detention nor the length of the sentences play a particularly important role. Being locked up or in custody can be something that creates status and shows that you are part of the criminal gang. That is why completely different social policy measures are needed, a school that works for everyone and an equal society. However, this is a completely different debate to the debate on the length of detention periods. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-500	Madam President, I would like After a long and winding journey, we arrive at a decision on time limits for arrests. But the journey can best be described as a trip to an undefined destination. Yet he slipped here, yet he slipped there, as the song says, but unfortunately it seems to be the government's legal policy that has been driving in the ditch. The government says more often than can be expected that it will take a strong stance against gang crime, but here the government makes it more difficult for prosecutors and police by proposing fixed limits for detention without any other changes. It's a very bad timing. The government seems reluctant to discuss the issue. Has anyone heard Morgan Johansson or Mikael Damberg comment on this matter without referring to the Riksdag? It can be noted that the absence of ministers in the debate today also shows a lack of interest on the part of the government in this matter. Once in Parliament, the proposal has changed continuously during the process, as Mr Juntti described. First, the government proposal suggested that the time limit for detention should be three months for young people and six months for adults. Then S in the committee changed to nine months for adults but still proposed three months for young criminals. Some time later, after criticism by the Law Council, it was suggested that it would be three months for young people and no time limit for adults. The latest proposal has now returned to three months and nine months respectively, despite the fact that the Law Council has made its thumbs down for this particular proposal in the course of the journey. It has been a hating, and in this context the question from Christmas Eve can be very relevant: Who is it that is running? Madam President, I would like The starting point of the bill is good – shortening detention periods is both commendable and important. However, this is not quite easy to implement. The time a suspect is detained depends on a variety of factors, such as the seriousness of the crime and the risk of the suspect departing, relapsing into crime or making the investigation more difficult. The complexity of the investigation also affects the time of detention. The investigations are also becoming increasingly complex and complex, according to both the Political Authority's and the Prosecutor's Office's annual reports. In many cases neither the police nor the prosecutor can speed up the investigation, as its progress depends on things beyond their control, such as the queue times of the National Forensic Centre. However, the bill wants to show that it is because of the lack of rules that detention times are too long in Sweden, when it is rather a matter of resource scarcity. Sweden has more restrictive rules for those who can be detained than for liberal ones. The Christian Democrats have previously proposed a simpler procedure than today for both compulsory detention and detention for minor crimes. The Christian Democrats are also concerned that the bill imposes great bureaucratic burdens on a profession, the prosecutor, who is already under great strain today. The proposal will also require the right to decide on the restrictions needed in individual cases. This is problematic, as it is the prosecutor as the head of the investigation who has the best insight into the investigation and what restrictions are needed. The Christian Democrats believe that it is still the prosecutor who has the best insight into what is required and should decide on this. The Christian Democrats believe that it is associated with certain problems to set a time limit for detention and demand exceptional reasons for its violation. The bill mentions that such reasons may be if the investigation requires cooperation from other countries that can delay or deal with organised crime that is difficult to investigate. But there is also domestic and non-organised crime that is difficult to investigate because it requires complex forensic analysis that can take time, either because the analysis is time-consuming or because the analyst has to prioritise other crime. Therefore, having a strict deadline and demanding exceptional reasons for abandoning it may have the consequence of releasing suspected criminals and fleeing, relapsing into crime or making the investigation more difficult. This may also mean that suspects require further investigative measures in order to meet the time limit set. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats share the view that arresting or placing children under police arrest is not desirable. This should be avoided as far as possible. However, arresting and placing children under police arrest is already subject to considerable restrictions. However, there are currently children under the age of 18 who have committed very serious crimes and who are at risk of fleeing, relapsing into or preventing the investigation of crimes if they are released. Some may even be very dangerous to the public. We therefore recommend that those under 18 years of age should be detained under police arrest if there are exceptional reasons. Ellen Juntti referred to a debate article in the DN in mid-March, where nine prosecutors and policemen highlighted this issue. And I would like to reiterate the fact that Ellen touched upon. The article states that in 2020 a total of 12 young people under the age of 18 were detained for more than three months. Half of these, six of them, were in custody for murder. The other six were detained for attempted murder, particularly aggravated drug crime, illegal detention and aggravated drug crime. Both of the serious drug offences concerned crimes that, for a person over 21 years of age, had a penalty value of over five years in prison. If it were now considered that fewer arrests of young people should exceed three months, in which case would it be worth risking the entire investigation by cancelling the detention? The prosecutions and the police continue in the article: Another possible consequence of the proposal is that young people will be exploited even more than today by older criminals to commit crimes. This is also something that the Prosecution Authority warned about in its referral to the bill. Many of those working in gang environments have very good knowledge of the law's positive discrimination against young people and have become experts in exploiting this to their advantage. It's the people who work out in the real world who say that. I think we should listen to them. Madam President, I would like The impact assessment of what the bill will mean for the judicial authorities leaves some other things to be desired. Furthermore, the Christian Democrats lack an impact assessment for the Police Authority, which they themselves also point out is missing in their referral to the government. The Christian Democrats want all proposals relating to the judiciary to include a comprehensive analysis of what is required in each stage in order to achieve the objectives. Otherwise, there is a risk of bottlenecks and inefficiencies in all parts of the judiciary. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats do not see that the bill is the right way forward and, through a number of reservations, we show that it should be changed. In the situation where the development of crime is in Sweden, it is wrong, in my view, to believe that a fixed deadline as a single measure solves all the problems. If the government had really wanted to shorten detention periods, the way forward would have been to come forward with proposals to reform the principle of immediateness, for example, and to ensure that, through both increased resources and further development work, the NFC's processing times would be reduced. These are factors that can improve the situation in a concrete way. To now decide on this unilateral change, while investigations are underway and proposals in this direction promised by the government, is a premature and incomplete path. It is also a step in the wrong direction to make the prosecution's work more difficult and complicated, which is a key element in tackling the more serious and often gang-criminal crime that we see. Unfortunately, the long-winded journey in this matter has fallen wrong and should instead have taken a different approach with a more holistic approach. I support the demands and reservations of the Christian Democrats, but in this debate I only call for reservation 1.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-522	Madam President, I would like Finally, we are in the process of taking decisions on this important matter, which is about more effectively handling detentions and reducing isolation. Several of the previous speakers have mentioned that there have been many tours, and that is the case. Nevertheless, I think it deserves to be said that we are probably jointly responsible for this in those parts. Ultimately, Madam President, it is a question of democracy and the rules of the game that we have for our mission. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. For a long time, Sweden has received both international and national criticism for long detention periods and extensive use of restrictions. Criticism has specifically referred to the situation of detained children and the isolation that the restrictions often lead to. International criticism has come from the Committee of the Council of Europe against torture and inhumane treatment and from the UN committees against torture and the rights of the child. And national criticisms have been made by, among others, the Ombudsman for Children and the Swedish Bar Association. I am therefore pleased that today, after a long time of preparation, we have a political majority which actually takes responsibility for the criticism that Sweden has received for a long time and which also has the strength to stand up and take action. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all the parties who have contributed to the constructive work. Madam President, I would like I think it is important for a moment to stop at what is something of the core of the judiciary in general and the criticism that Sweden has been receiving for a long time, in particular with regard to detention periods and restrictions. A part of society and the judiciary is needed if we are to be a rule of law and live up to our commitments for everyone involved, whether you are a victim, a perpetrator, a suspect or otherwise affected. That is why the opposition's criticism of the proposal on time limits today is remarkable. I hear it, but I do not see how they intend to solve the issue of how we in Sweden should live up to our international commitments. Madam President, I would like The government proposal has been prepared for a long time. The committee today proposes that the time limit for detention should be nine months for adults and three months for children, for those under the age of 18. A clear majority of referrals support the proposal to introduce time limits for detention. I think that deserves to be emphasised. There is criticism of the proposal, but the criticism is mainly that the committee proposes nine months as a deadline for adults instead of the government proposal of six months. However, we think that nine months is a more reasonable balance. There needs to be a balanced approach to the introduction of time limits between, on the one hand, the effective conduct of an investigation in order to limit the period of detention and, on the other hand, the importance of not impairing the conditions for investigation and the possibility of prosecution. The main reasons for long detention periods are serious crime, combined with the fact that the suspected crime may be particularly difficult due to international links or that the crime is part of organised or gang-related crime. It is therefore necessary to allow time limits to be exceeded if there are exceptional reasons. I am convinced that time limits, even if they can be exceeded, will be governing and contribute to better planning and resource use and shorter lead times. The proposal is designed on the basis that the ability of the investigating authorities to investigate crimes should not be impaired. There is no party that wants to make it more difficult to investigate crimes. It is also important for victims and witnesses that the judicial process can be carried out within a reasonable time. Madam President, I would like In addition to the proposal on time limits, there are other parts of the report. I shall point out a few more in particular. One is about the change that it is the right, at the request of the prosecutor, to decide on the restrictions of the prisoner. The current regime whereby the court grants the prosecutor a general authorisation to issue restrictions is criticised. The Council of Europe has repeatedly recommended that Sweden amend the regulatory framework. Restrictions are a major intervention, and therefore it should be a decision for the court and not the prosecutor. In the course of judicial review, restrictions will need to be more clearly justified and addressed when the Court is to take a position. When children are arrested, this is almost exclusively a matter of serious crime. However, despite the fact that the demands for arrest and restrictions are higher than those for adults, the proportion of those detained with restrictions is higher among children than among adults. During 2019, 96 percent of the children in custody had restrictions, compared with 68 percent for all those in custody. A clear majority of these children are to be regarded as isolated. This is something that has received international criticism. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen have also, as recently as this year, made very serious criticisms of the Prison Service for the isolation of prisoners in custody. The government therefore proposes a legal right for children detained to stay with someone else for at least four hours each day. Madam President, I would like Civil society is making an invaluable contribution to detention centres and prisons to meet the people behind crime and help break isolation. It can be crucial for children and young people to be able to leave a criminal life behind. During the spring, I have had the privilege of meeting some of them to share their work and experiences. The Red Cross, the Salvation Army, Fryshuset, RFSU and the Christian Council of Sweden are some organisations that organise operations in prisons and prisons with contributions from or on behalf of the Prison Service. Civil society contributes to bringing society and some kind of normality into a closed world. They open fresh doors and show alternatives where each meeting with the prisoner can contribute to change, as a representative of the Christian Council of Sweden put it. Madam President, I would like There is rarely a solution to complex problems. I am pleased that Parliament can now come forward with a series of proposals to streamline detention and reduce isolation. At the same time, we are clear from the committee that these are some elements in order to bring about change and that further work and further action are needed in several areas. Several investigations are ongoing that matter. One is about the legal framework for investigations against children who are suspected of crimes. Another investigation will propose a penalty for those who involve young people in crime. Another examines how rapid criminal proceedings for faster prosecution can be introduced on a permanent basis. The question of whether early police interviews recorded during the pre-trial investigation can be used to a greater extent as evidence during the trial is currently being prepared at the Government Office. It is also about continuing work with a strengthened legal chain and developed collaboration. In addition to previous resource enhancements, there may be a need for additional resources for the judiciary. It is also a question of increasing the efficiency of the different parts of the judiciary, for example within the National Forensic Centre, in order to reduce unjustified long periods of analysis, handling and investigation. The committee assumes that the Government will closely monitor developments and return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals to streamline the criminal proceedings.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-548	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, in December 2020 the Ekot reported that more young people are being recruited into criminal networks. Six out of seven police regions reported that children as young as twelve were recruited. The police in both Stockholm and Gothenburg reported that there were hundreds of children – hundreds – who performed acts for criminal networks, such as the transport of drugs or weapons. Four out of seven police regions reported that the recruitment of children has increased in recent years and that children have become increasingly younger. Several consultation bodies have warned that the bill will provide an increased incentive for gang criminals to exploit even more children. The Prosecution Authority, the Ombudsman for Justice, the Swedish Bar Association and others have said so. This is terrible. Can you imagine a 12-year-old who, in his neighborhood, is being forced by gang criminals to commit crimes? In this very serious situation, the government wants to introduce legislative changes that provide an increased incentive to force young people to commit crimes. Where is the child perspective in this? There are many referrals that have warned that there are too many differences in detention times for young people and adults.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-553	Madam President, I would like It tastes bad in the mouth when Ellen Juntti talks about the children's perspective based on the fact that children would be more used because we set time limits for detention. This does not mean that we are raising a bar, but we are setting a deadline for how long children can be detained. If there are circumstances that require an extension of time, there is that possibility. I find it unfortunate that Ellen Juntti is twisting the arguments and perspectives in a way that does not match reality. If you look at the referrals, you can see that some say that there may be a risk that young people may be exploited, but on the other hand, the evidence that has been available is far too weak and insufficient to make a complete assessment. With Ellen Junttis reasoning, one can say that the detention periods for children should be even longer, if we want to avoid that they risk being exploited by adults. I think that the reasoning is being built completely wrong. Ellen Juntti points out that the Ombudsman for Justice and the Swedish Bar Association say that they see a risk, but at the same time Ellen Juntti does not say that both bodies have been clear that it is six months that apply. They support the government bill. The question back to Ellen Juntti is: What is the Moderates' proposal to solve the problem?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-558	Madam President, I would like It is very easy to answer the last question. It is not to impose any time limits at all, either for young people or for adults. That is what we have proposed, and that is where we have had reservations. Then there will be no difference, and then the incentives will not increase. Carina Ödebrink says that I turn it around and that I say that the incentives for the exploitation of young people are increasing. It is not me who is twisting and turning it around, it is the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Ombudsman for Justice, the Swedish Bar Association and many others who say that there is a great risk of it. So I'm not the one turning it around. Carina Ödbrink may be able to read the referrals again, and she sees that too. I want to go back to the article written by the nine prosecutors and the police. With regard to the introduction of time limits for young people under the age of 18, they wrote that it is already difficult to have someone under the age of 18 detained and that with the proposal now on the table, i.e. a three-month limit for young people, there is a further increase in the bar and even more difficult to investigate serious crimes and that there is a risk of suspects being released from custody and can destroy the police investigation, which must then be closed down. We Moderates trust that the senior prosecutors and police officers who have signed the debate article actually know what they are talking about. They do not want to keep young people in custody for fun, but because it is necessary to investigate serious crimes. It should not be longer than necessary, but it should be as long as necessary. My question to Carina Ödbrink is, doesn't Carina Ödbrink trust what the prosecutors and the police say? Does Carina Ödbrink think they're wrong?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-563	Madam President, I would like I trust that Sweden's prosecutors and others in the judiciary are doing their job, and I know that our ministers are doing the same. I don't doubt it for a second. But Ellen Juntti does not present the answer to what the Moderates want to do. You don't want any time limits for detention. The fact that Sweden has for a long time been criticized for too long detention periods and extensive restrictions, especially for young people, does not concern Ellen Juntti and the Moderates. For me, this is about three things. It is about us having to respond to the criticism that Sweden has been receiving for a long time. The second is that Ellen Juntti points to some people who are critical of the proposal, but Ellen Juntti does not mention that a clear majority of the referral bodies actually support the government's proposal, which was originally six months for adults and three for children. That is what the majority of the consultative bodies are behind, and I think this deserves to be said. It's a little dishonest of Ellen Juntti to hide it away. The Swedish Bar Association, to which Ellen Juntti refers, says that the criticism that is now being made about introducing time limits should not be seen as a better alternative than the Government's proposal. It is important to be clear what reality actually looks like. More needs to be done, but this is an important part.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-567	Madam President, I would like There is a dividing line in both speeches and debates between us in the opposition and those in government positions. Carina Ödbrink makes it easy for herself when she asks what we want to do. I do not know if Carina listened to my speech, but I can say that only introducing a deadline is to give a very simple answer to a problem that we, as Carina Ödbrink rightly points out, have received criticism for in Sweden. At the same time, it is a fact that in today's crime we see that a large number of crimes are committed by younger people. It is often older gang criminals who force or encourage young people to commit crimes. I want to read from the article in Dagens Nyheter from nine police officers and prosecutors working on this. It's like this: In 2020 a total of 12 young people under the age of 18 were detained for more than three months. Half of these — six — were detained for murder. The other six were detained for attempted murder, particularly aggravated drug crime, illegal detention[...] and aggravated drug crime[...]. Both of the serious drug offences concerned crimes that, for a person over 21 years of age, had a penalty value of over five years in prison. If it were considered that fewer arrests of young people should exceed three months – in which case would it be worth risking the entire investigation by lifting the detention order? ..................................................... That is my question to Carina Ödbrink. Which of these twelve youths who committed serious crimes would it be appropriate to release, on the basis that the detention requirement would be three months?
i-W9Y4qnLFc73tSKfmEXxfzB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ingemar Kihlström, for the question. I see it this way: the fact that we are now taking a decision to impose time limits does not mean that people, whether young or adults, should be released from custody if there are reasons for them to remain. That's why we have the valve. If people are arrested and suspected of serious crimes – it is a matter of detention, not a prison sentence – it should of course be ensured by prosecutors and courts that the persons are detained to the extent necessary. There will be no difference compared to the situation that will arise if we set deadlines. We think, and I believe that Ingemar Kihlström and the Christian Democrats also do, that there needs to be time limits to be able to act and ensure that the plan for investigation and then prosecution runs on in a reasonable time. I think Ingemar Kihlström makes it a little easy for himself when he says that we only want to introduce deadlines. That is not the point, and I explained this in my speech. It is a question of taking advantage of the investigations that are currently under way and that are on the way, of ensuring that resources are provided and that the authorities are given the space they need to be able to investigate and prosecute. But again: I do not think I am getting an answer about what is the solution of the Christian Democrats when it comes to meeting the criticism that Sweden has been receiving for a long time.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-576	Madam President, I would like We can see that the analysis carried out by Carina Ödbrink is also shared by me. As Carina Ödebrink says, none of the twelve children who would be subject to a time limit should be released, but why should a time limit be set? They have committed serious crimes, and Carina Ödbrink himself says that we have a valve so as not to release those who have committed crimes free. This is what will happen in concrete terms. These police officers and prosecutors point out that it will be much more difficult, because one has to argue. According to the bill, there must be serious reasons. We can see that we have a crime. I would like to return to the point raised by Carina Ödbrink. She said we don't have an answer. We have an answer. A change of this kind should be done with a holistic approach. You don't just take a little patch and put over a deep wound. You look at the whole picture. One major reason why we have long detention periods is the queue at NFC. It would be better to start by ensuring that there is more efficiency and resources there and that reforms on the principle of immediateness are also carried out, as is said. Then it becomes a holistic approach based on the view that resources allow for short detention periods. Then you set limits for it. That is what we are saying should be done. Now you take the little patch and you put over the big wound – the time of arrest – and you think the wound will heal. It won't. Crime in Sweden is quite different at the moment. It needs the government and Carina Ödbrink to realize that.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-582	Madam President, I would like I can assure Ingemar Kihlström that the government takes this issue very seriously. This issue is also part of a wider whole in order to achieve a more effective handling of detentions, reduced isolation and an effective judicial process. That is what I was trying to explain in my speech and which I hope Ingemar Kihlström noted. More resources are needed. That's what I said in my speech. We are no stranger to pointing out to the government if we see a need. And I assume that the government will follow this issue closely. Resources have been added, and there have been penalties and other measures have been taken to deal with crime and its causes. In that respect, I am confident that we are actually dealing with this issue. When it comes to more resources, you can't just throw in more resources. It is also necessary to ensure that resources are used as efficiently as possible. A report from Statskontoret 2016 showed that inefficient work processes at NFC were the single most important factor in the slowness of the management process. Then I have to conclude by saying that it is only three years since the Christian Democrats in a motion clearly pointed out the importance of actually tackling and reducing restrictions on young people and ensuring that Sweden was able to fulfil the commitments we have on this issue. But it is no longer present at all.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-586	Madam President, I would like With regard to the restrictions that the government wants the court to take over from the prosecutors, I wonder if the government does not trust the prosecutors to do their job. It is the prosecutors who are the experts, who investigate and who have complete knowledge of the investigation. You do not use restrictions lightly, but you use restrictions to get a good investigation results simply. There is no other reason to use restrictions. This is done to ensure that suspects do not interfere with the investigation or threaten witnesses or plaintiffs and so on. In addition, it would mean that the line between the head of investigation and the judge would be erased and the prosecutor would then have to explain the entire investigation to the court. It is not only time-consuming but also very costly.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-588	Madam President, I would like I thank Katja Nyberg for the question. Just as I touched upon in my speech, the order we have today, where the prosecutor has the general right to communicate restrictions, criticisms and has been so for a long time. The Council of Europe and others have recommended that the government take action and change this so that it will be the court instead of the prosecutor who will impose restrictions. This will be done on the initiative of the prosecutors. I don't doubt the prosecutors at all. However, it is important to have a judicial review where the need for restrictions needs to be more clearly justified and addressed, and where the Court is finally the one to take a position. This already exists today. The Prosecutor General has developed guidelines for how this should be handled. Schedules and other parts are also inscribed. The government considers this issue to be so important. It is also about fulfilling our international commitments. That is why it is felt that this needs to be changed. But the question is the same for the Swedish Democrats. Katja Nyberg said in her post that no one wants long detention periods. That's it. But how are we to overcome the demands that are actually being made on us, and how are we to face the criticism that we have been receiving for a long time? What is the solution of the Swedish democrats?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-591	Madam President, I would like This is definitely not a solution to it. The entire Swedish procedural order will be ignored by doing so. I know from the professional knowledge I have of how prosecutors work. And this just makes it even more work for prosecutors and courts to push this through. This is therefore a huge waste of resources and will make everything simply much more cumbersome. Prosecutors are very competent. They know what to decide on and why in the cases. The government says that it wants the prosecutor to report a timetable in connection with an extension. What is the reason for that? It also shows that it does not really believe that prosecutors are able to do their job in the form they are doing today, but wants to impose even more duties on them and put it in court. The prosecutors shall also present a timetable. How do you reason about it?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-594	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. As I explained, this is part of the measures that have been taken to meet the criticism of long detention periods and restrictions. However, the measures taken have not proved to have the desired effect over time. There are guidelines and regulations for prosecutors to plan and prepare the process promptly. Nevertheless, we do not see developments moving in the right direction. Then I and the government believe that it is important that this is actually highlighted more clearly in the legislative text. I do not see that this is the problem that the Swedish Democrats and the opposition otherwise want to make it. I find it sad, Madam President. It is regrettable that the opposition cannot speak more clearly about what is the solution to meet the criticism we have received regarding too long detention periods and excessive restrictions, in which children are effectively isolated. Norway and Denmark have received the same criticism over time. They have taken action, and we can now see that detention times have been significantly reduced. Then I don't think it's any stranger than that we should be able to do it too. That is one reason for what we are now taking forward.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-597	Madam President, I would like Maybe we don't have to curse the opposition, I was saying. It is against the proposal put forward by the government. This is behaviour that I recognise from the last 25 years in this House. But then the others, who are behind the bill, will show us what to do instead. It's really important. Madam President, I would like I would like to start with how this legislative work has come about. As has been explained, this is partly because there are various international bodies that have pointed to the seriousness of the long detention periods in Sweden. There's been talk of torture. Excuse me, Madam President, but this is bizarre. Torture in Swedish custody? It's conceptual confusion in the parallel universe. You don't know what they mean. But it is clear that a person should not be detained for too long. It's very serious. The detention periods should be kept short and kept down. There was an investigation into this in 2015. It was treated. The prosecutors said yes-- this is good, we're going forward, we have to work on this. Most people think that plans, regulations, deadlines and effective authorities are good. Of course, it applies to prosecutors and police officers as well. But after 2015, when the investigation came, a lot happened with crime in Sweden. It was getting rougher. It got narrower in our prisons. The police were hit – no, affected is the wrong word; we decided on a reorganization that put its effectiveness at a halt for a while, one might say. Now it's getting better. The prosecutors have been starving for a long time. Now I hope that the budget that sees Parliament's light in the coming days will be a little better. Yet he slipped here, yet he slipped there, said Mr Kihlström. To quote from some other cultural work you can take the Society trip: Tough timing, Hedlund! In view of the range, this is not entirely perfect. I want to go back to how many of this is happening. We in the committee have been given new tasks on and off. In 2019 there were 34 out of 6,512 cases of adult detention exceeding nine months. It should be remembered that we now have an exception rule, because it is not possible to have completely fixed time limits. There may be important aspects of legal certainty that are lost if people are forced to release with a so-called pre-stock, that is, a fixed deadline. I would like to say to those who have expressed concerns about the changes in the lines that it states that it should be taken into account in the value of the sentence, in whether the offence is difficult to establish and in the behaviour of the person in custody. These things should be weighed together to see if there are exceptional cases. Then, Madam President, one can recall our constitutional function here. This is the last passage before we vote on it this afternoon and there will be Swedish law. To those who are concerned, I can say that the intention of those of us who are behind the bill in this part – this can be confirmed by subsequent speakers – is that this particular reason should be used exactly as stated in the text of the report. It is not possible to say exactly which cases are to be dealt with, but it is not just a matter of punitive value, but also of the suspect's own behaviour and whether it is difficult to understand. The Liberals can support this. I've been going over the referrals a few times now. There is talk of deadlines here and there. The answers are – we are about to end up with quotes in English, Madam President – a little. What I'm saying is there's a width. Some people think that we should only have 30 days for children, whether they have shot a few or what they have done. That, of course, is completely unreasonable. Then there are some who think that we should not have any deadlines at all, that is, the prosecutors today. Five years ago, it seemed that there were excellent proposals with deadlines. It's fast in the changes sometimes. Where we now stand, the most important thing we have to do is firstly to ensure that we in this House guarantee that the derogation can be applied and, secondly, to make the other changes that are important, with resources to the whole legal chain. As I said, there will soon be a spring budget, and there will then be a budget for next year. There is a need for massive efforts here. That's what the Liberals are doing. The state of law first! Reestablish the rule of law! It is also a matter of specific functions. The National Forensic Centre of the Police is absolutely crucial. We Liberals support what the government has announced to change the principle of immediateness and the principle of oralness in court. We Liberals are also in favour of the important criminal procedural coercive measures that are necessary. Earlier this morning in this House I have mentioned this with Encrochat and that it is now playing interiors like a string of pearls on trial. I will not pre-empt any trial, but likely a number of very unpleasant people with a weak sense of self, totally unempathetic and very dangerous, will be locked in for a long time. These coercive measures are absolutely necessary, not least those used by police officers in Europe with regard to Encrochat, as well as camera surveillance, which we have just facilitated from this House. It is important to collect evidence when the most common comment from many in serious crimes is: No comments. That is the way we should go to ensure that we really get strength in the work of shortening times. I cannot support my particular opinion, Madam President, but I support it. It tells us what to do. It says that we are following this closely. The government has undertaken to follow this very closely. We will get back to you immediately if this means that the ratio – 34 out of 6 512 cases have been – gives reason to believe that there can be no particular reason.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-610	Madam President, I would like Sweden has long received strong international criticism for our long detention periods. This applies not least to those who are children. The proposal that we are dealing with in this report, which will regulate the length of detention periods, is therefore very welcome. This is something we from the Green Party have long wanted to see. I thought, as Helena Vilhelmsson said earlier during the debate, that this would be done under the leave of parental leave of the Centre Party member Johan Hedin. I was also on parental leave during the fall and thought this would be done for a long time. This was not the case, but I am very pleased that we are going to take this decision today and that it will then apply. Madam President, I would like A couple of years ago, during the summer of 2019, there was a detention that was very noticed. A world famous American rapper was arrested in Stockholm after an assault. The detention was rewritten and discussed in Sweden and abroad. The person was in custody for a month before he was convicted and was able to fly home to the United States. Fortunately, it is not common for an American president to have views on individual cases in Sweden. But in addition to all this excitement, the event brought with it that the focus for a few weeks came to be on what the regulations for detentions look like. A suspect may under certain conditions be arrested during a criminal investigation. It is essential that this possibility exists. It is often also necessary that restrictions are in place to ensure that the prisoner does not interfere with the investigation. I have seen in the statistics that there is a large majority of those in detention who have restrictions. The government has announced that the principle of immediacy should be changed so that early questioning becomes more important. This is something that has been requested by, among other things, the Prosecutor's Office to deal with the long detention periods and also be able to influence what restrictions are being used. Madam President, I would like This debate, as well as the previous one on Prison Service, has been going on for a while. During the debate, the government has presented a legislative referral on this very subject. There are more things to do about this, Madam President. This is not just about the decision taken today on nine-month detention periods for adults and three months for children, but also about other things that need to be done. It is important to deal better with large complex criminal cases and to give greater weight to the courts with previous hearings. This also applies to measures to improve the functioning of the National Forensic Centre in the police so that people are not detained unnecessarily long while waiting for DNA samples to be analysed. What is being done today is important, but it is far from the only thing that needs to be done. Madam President, I would like This is especially true for children. An improvement alongside borders is also that children should have the right to meet staff or other four hours a day. The situation in a jail cell is extremely vulnerable. Of course, there are also cases where someone is in custody and at a later stage is found to be innocent. This is something that is being determined during ongoing investigations or whether someone is convicted or not in court. But we will never get away from the fact that during such a process there are people who are innocent. Therefore, it is also important from this point of view that conditions are as human as possible. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will say something about what has come up in the debate. It has been a long process with the report. The criticism that came from the Law Council was that it thought that nine months was too long. It had no recollection of the original six-month proposal put forward by the government. This is a step in the right direction. There will be a deadline, and that is very good. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-621	Madam President, I would like Now we have to debate and later vote on motion requests from the general period of exercise concerning alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling. So these are the questions that fit into the acronym ANDTS. Today's debate is perhaps the closest to being seen as a prologue to the debate that we will have later this spring on the government's proposal for a renewed ANDTS strategy. Today, we moderate our follow-up motion on the government's strategy. It is a strategy that we are deeply disappointed and critical of. That is why we are making a wide range of proposals for changes, improvements and additions to the strategy. The government has clearly fallen into old ruts and seems incapable of rethinking and developing the strategy and efforts in this so important area on its own. However, I am hopeful that here in Parliament, like so many times in the past in relation to ANDTS issues, we will be able to shape majorities for a better and more forward-looking policy. It is a policy based, among other things, on the fact that there is a huge difference between different tobacco and nicotine products. Smoking is dangerous. Snipping or using other non-smoking tobacco and nicotine products is not, although these are certainly not health products. Madam President, I would like We need a new overall goal for the ANDTS policy, which says that the social and medical damage caused by tobacco and nicotine products, as well as alcohol and gambling, should be reduced. And the other objectives of the ANDTS policy need to be Evaluatable. Madam President, I would like Earlier when we debated the ANDTS issues in this House, I have highlighted and criticised the government for sifting mosquitoes but swallowing camels. For example, there is a desire to regulate in detail how many prills a snus box must contain while lacking an answer on how to reduce the huge amount of alcohol smuggling sold to young people in particular. On behalf of the Moderates, we want to strengthen the entire judiciary, not least through more police officers in external service. We also want to give a strengthened law enforcement mission to the Customs Agency so that smuggling and the illicit trade in alcohol, as well as drugs, doping substances and tobacco, can be more vigorously and successfully combated. At the same time, with regard to alcohol, we want to create better conditions for small-scale alcohol producers and therefore also for related tourism. It is producers who contribute to a healthier alcohol culture where craftsmanship, taste and origin are at the centre rather than price and intoxication. That's why we Moderates want to open up for farm sales. Therefore, we want to review how Systembolaget can better give local producers the opportunity to sell their products to a wider clientele. That is why I would like to support the joint reservation No 5 by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. Madam President, I would like It is high time for an ANDTS policy with a focus on results. Last year, a united parliament announced to the government that a continued restrictive drug policy must be combined with good drug and addiction care that includes efforts to reduce drug damage. Furthermore, the Riksdag urged the Government to initiate a zero vision for drug-related mortality. Such a zero vision is now included in the Government's proposal for a renewed ANDTS strategy. But the strategy is largely lacking in response to how the vision is to be achieved. On the part of the Moderates, we are therefore putting forward a number of proposals to move from words to action. Unfortunately, Madam President, a vision saves no lives. Basic to developing better addiction care is that we know what today's care, as well as what the drug situation in general and the heavy addiction in particular, looks like in Sweden. In order to put the right solutions in place, we simply need to have a proper picture of what the problem looks like. Unfortunately, we do not have that today. That is why a proper survey is needed. Furthermore, we propose Moderates to set up a national research body, to investigate a reinforced care guarantee in addiction care and a national overdose strategy. We believe that such a strategy is needed as one of many tools to reduce Swedish drug-related mortality. It is a mortality which, according to the EU Drugs Agency, is Europe's highest. An overdose strategy should reasonably include what we are now announcing in total agreement to the government, namely increased access to naloxone drugs. It is a drug that reverses overdoses and thus saves lives. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Parliament continues to push for better care of addiction and for measures and reforms that can save lives. In the past, the Riksdag has, as I said, agreed on the need for a zero vision for drug-related mortality. The Swedish Parliament has also demanded that the government carry out an analysis of the experience of those countries that have already introduced generic classification, i.e. family classification, of psychoactive substances – this following a proposal from M, C, KD and L from 2018. We are still waiting for that analysis. Madam President, I would like The government's ANDTS policy is not up to date. I and the Moderates will therefore continue to push for a more systematic and follow-up policy. It is a policy in which objectives and visions are followed by concrete actions – actions that contribute to better public health and save lives.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-635	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the SoU20 report, and I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. How can we make practical use of the knowledge that smoking increases the risk of abuse? One response from many who work with young people, drugs and addiction is that this knowledge must motivate us to put even more effort into tobacco prevention. It is particularly important that parents learn more about the health risks and that smoking can be a gateway to other abuses. This may motivate them to act even more forcefully to prevent children from smoking. Parents also understand that they have great opportunities to influence their children's attitudes and behaviour by not smoking or snus themselves and by talking to children and young people about the risks. By keeping an eye on what the teenager does and who he or she hangs out with, you as a parent can prevent alcohol problems. Having an emotional and close relationship also has a protective effect. The school has a central role in early detection of a student's difficulties. All school staff should have knowledge of how to detect behavioural changes. It's not just about discovering drugs, it can also be about having routines for early detection of behavioral changes, school absences or cognitive difficulties. Coherent research results show that passing school is a protective factor. Student health also plays an important role as a resource and safety net and also as a bridge to social services, among other things. Youth clinics have high credibility among young people and are a well-known body and an important player when it comes to early detection of addiction, addiction and mental illness. However, there is a lack of guidance on what is the mission of youth receptions. There are youth clinics that include alcohol and drug counselling in their activities, but this work needs to be developed. Madam President, I would like In terms of population, the number of tobacco-related deaths in Sweden is lowest in Europe, which is positive. It is well known that this is because Swedes snus more and smoke less. The reasonable starting point in tobacco policy should be to promote harm minimisation by supporting those initiatives that lead to fewer damage. That snus causes less damage than cigarettes is no news. Unlike cigarettes, however, snuff has a role to play in public health as a healthier alternative to smoking. It would therefore be desirable for the next ANDTS strategy to have a harm reduction perspective also for tobacco, as it does in the area of alcohol. In Norway, damage minimisation has been included in the tobacco strategy, and in the latest budget bill it was decided to reduce snus tax by 25 percent, while maintaining a high tax rate on cigarettes, to make existing smokers switch to less harmful alternatives. Similar steps have been taken in New Zealand, the United States and Italy. In pursuing a policy that encourages people to choose less harmful alternatives, there is an enormous potential to achieve the goal of creating a smoke-free Sweden. At the same time, it is important to monitor non-smoking tobacco and nicotine products regularly, in particular to ensure that they do not attract new groups of users such as young people, former smokers or non-smokers. It is sometimes said that alcohol is a gateway to drugs, such as cannabis. Most people who drink alcohol don't even think about testing drugs. However, it is almost only smokers who test cannabis. But most people who try drugs for the first time do it when they're drunk. That is another reason for having clear limits around alcohol. Madam President, I would like Powders, drinks and pills are examples of products that attract with better health and promises of increased performance and more endurance. Marketing is aggressive. Studies show that seven out of ten boys who regularly practice at gyms eat some form of dietary supplement daily. Facts and knowledge about dietary supplements among young people is a development area where there is a lack of information and methods to work with the issue. There is a lack of knowledge about who is using doping agents. What has come to light is that the users are mostly in training environments, and therefore training facilities remain an important arena for the prevention of doping. Madam President, I would like Responsible Alcohol Serving, Hooks Against Drugs, 100% Pure Hard Training and Football Without Filling are some successful methods that STAD, Stockholm prevents alcohol and drug problems, is behind. There are also more preventive methods in the ANDTS area that have been developed and proven to be successful. Today, STAD is the largest player in Sweden in method development in the ANDTS field. Prevention work requires a long-term approach, and the problem today is that no authority is responsible for the management, quality assurance and further development of the methods. Municipalities and regions need central support and training in the proper use of methods, which is currently lacking. If they do not, the results will not be achieved, despite the resources invested. The Swedish Democrats believe that a national competence centre like the organisation of STAD is needed.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-651	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing today is the motions that were received during the general exercise period under the heading ANDTS or, more simply, addiction diseases. How are we to prevent people from falling ill with addiction diseases? And once you have done so – what kind of treatment should you receive? As has already been said, this will be a little bit of a pre-discuss, because now the government has finally come up with its so-called ANDTS strategy. Today is the last day for us in the parliamentary parties to submit our accompanying motions. I have just signed our motion, in which I propose a rejection of the government's ANDTS strategy because it is simply substandard. Madam President, I would like It is also a little strange that we are going to have a parliamentary debate on how to prevent and treat this disease group. We do not have a special parliamentary debate on cardiovascular diseases, diabetes or other disease groups. But just as for these diseases, there will be a parliamentary debate. This is linked to the fact that, unfortunately, the discussion of addiction diseases has been politicised for decades. It is about political ideologies, opinion and thinking. That's what makes us so wrong. This is certainly one of the reasons why Sweden, for example, has among Europe's absolute highest mortality rates among people with a drug addiction. In the 70's we thought that there were only socio-economic models of explanation for this, and in the 80's we thought that if we were to declare war on drugs and had zero tolerance everything would work out. The most recent example of this is the Prime Minister's statement a few years ago, when he said: We know that the biggest consumption of drugs is found in the wealthy areas of Djursholm and Danderyd. That's how we know it is. When he said that, I think a lot of people were wondering where he had been given that fact. Most people know that in many of the problems in our public health – from moving too little and eating wrong to smoking, drinking and using drugs – there are fairly strong socio-economic background factors, alongside genetic, biomedical and so on. When the Prime Minister had said this, thankfully the Public Health Authority, which is the government authority responsible for protecting public health, intervened and gave a fairly large research mission to CAN. There, too, this was thought to be a very strange statement. A little over a month ago, the research report – very well done – came from CAN and showed that it was not so. As far as drug dependence is concerned, it is above all those who have little or no education, those who are unemployed and those who live in our exclusion areas who are the most vulnerable. It is this, Madam President – that politics is based on opinion and political ideology and not on research and science – that makes us so wrong. That is also the reason why we from the Center Party propose rejecting the government's ANDTS strategy. Now, a lot has happened in recent years. It is mainly from this Parliament that we have been able to push forward. We have pushed for better use of the antidote, naloxone, which can lift a respiratory arrest. We've got a needle exchange. We have achieved more effective treatment. But there is much more to do, and that is why a united parliament has said to the government: you must investigate the whole drugs policy in order to ensure that Sweden should not be at the top in terms of mortality in this one of the most vulnerable groups. Unfortunately, the government has not been shot at there. Among other things, this means that we will later vote in favour of rejecting the bill. In the case of alcohol, too, the situation is not good. One can see it as very positive that we have a falling consumption. Not least among young people, but also among the population as a whole, less and less alcohol is consumed, and that is a pleasure. No one really knows what this is, but it is a positive development in terms of public health. Nevertheless, we continue to have negative developments in the setting-up of alcohol-related harm and also in alcohol-related deaths. This is, of course, linked to the fact that there is still a very high consumption of alcohol in the risk population. This is another example of the fact that when we try to improve public health with regard to alcohol consumption, we cannot shoot broadly. It is important to have targeted action against the group where this is a major problem. It is only then that we can achieve results. It is not least about finding more effective treatment methods, which there are a number of today that are used far too little in Sweden. There is also a concern about tobacco. Here we can also see the positive side of the fact that we have a declining incidence of cigarette smoking. But here the government is talking about the urgent desire to broaden the perspective and not just to try to tackle what is the real problem, namely smoking cigarettes, smoking tobacco. This is where you start discussing snuff and all kinds of other things. This too will have a negative impact. More targeted efforts are needed to achieve the public health objectives we have set ourselves, to reduce mortality and to improve the development of disease panorama. Madam President, I would like We have several reservations from the Center Party, but I only support reservation number two.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-666	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I will focus on drug dependence, because I think it is an issue that we have lost very much over a fairly long period of time. I take this debate for all the addicts, their fathers, mothers, siblings, partners, friends and children. I take it for all the people I met when I worked at the LVM home Serafen 1986-1987 with the first HIV infected addicts. They had HIV and were condemned to death, but they were actually – unfortunately, I have to say – in a way in better social and mental condition than they are today. They had their own homes. This was the time before the major dismantling of welfare that we went into in the 90's had started, before the sale of rental rights in Stockholm had started and before we got a legislation that we should take a look at, evaluate and value. I am taking the debate for the many people I know who have lived in an addiction but are not doing so today, which today makes a huge difference – parts of my circle of friends. On 13 February last year, a unanimous social committee took this position: Sweden needs a zero vision and zero tolerance of drug-related deaths. First and foremost, the focus should be on prevention so that people choose not to use drugs. Furthermore, attention should be paid to the individual and to his or her right to receive the support and treatment he or she needs for his or her addiction disease. Evidence-based treatment is what helps people back into a functioning life.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-670	In this context, the committee believes that the government should initiate a zero vision of drug-related deaths and an evaluation of the current drugs policy as outlined above. ..................................................... We're still waiting for that investigation. The zero vision of death has come in, but without substance, you have to say. Madam President, I would like The left has been at the forefront of a drugs policy based on research and evidence. We have gone at the forefront of demands for syringe exchange, injury minimisation, equal health for addiction, better care and treatment and to investigate criminalisation of their own use. We want to change the law so that it is no longer criminal to be under the influence of drugs, to have drugs in your blood. But we believe that any form of possession of drugs should continue to be illegal, and the same with the manufacture and sale of drugs – of course. Madam President, the issue of decriminalisation in connection with legalisation is often raised. It is to obscure our vision, so that those of us who stand for a drugs policy based on research and evidence will end up in the legalisation corner. It's an often used misleading trick. Between 2006 and 2019, drug and drug poisoning mortality increased by 79 per cent. The numbers come from the Public Health Agency. Affected are mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, friends, children, and the dead person — a lost life. Stigmatisation has increased. The exposure has increased. It's shameful that it just keeps going. There is a great need to evaluate how the whole drugs policy, including the criminalisation of its own use, works in practice and how it has hit. Both SKR and the Swedish Public Health Agency want the current law to be evaluated. Are they also legalizers? Are researchers who want to look at this as well as legalizers? Or the profession? Madam President, I would like Today's policy of dependence does not correspond to the development of knowledge and needs in recent years. The fact that the legislation is absolutely not adapted to the needs leads to a lack of resources and a high level of inequality between the different carriers. In addition, major cuts in both municipalities and regions have meant that a great many people have been denied help and care. Another major problem is that people with addiction-related diseases have not been reached by healthcare. Madam President, I would like A preventive perspective is central to addiction care. The Left Party believes that there is a need for outpatient care with a focus on early intervention. In order to increase knowledge about addiction problems and to combat unequal care for addiction, we want a national coordinator who coordinates national addiction policies. We think that is quite central. A national centre of knowledge for the response to drug-related harm and death will also be set up. These are some of our very many suggestions. The distribution activities shall be carried out in all regions. That goes without saying. We think we've been talking about it since 2005. Now we have taken a step further with regard to naloxone and together decided that it should be more accessible. It feels very good. The social heritage affects children of parents with addiction problems or mental illness to a very large extent. Children of addiction are much more at risk than others of not being able to cope with school and becoming self-dependent later in life. An equal society protects and captures children and young people in good time. The single most important preventive measure is a functioning, equal preschool and school, where the goal is for all pupils to move from primary school to upper secondary school. Preschools and schools must make early interventions if they see that a child is feeling ill or not following. We also want to see new legislation in which children of parents with mental illness or abuse are entitled to their own support at an early stage. We from the Left Party also want to invest in Maria Ungdom in Stockholm and make it a national knowledge centre for young people's dependence by taking advantage of the knowledge and experience that is there and developing care when it comes to reaching young people. We want to change the drugs policy from lethal to a policy that benefits the addicts and gives them opportunities for care and treatment and for survival. Dependence is a disease – diseases are treated. Give the addicts a decent life! I'm in favour of reservation 16.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-684	Madam President, I would like In my role as a researcher at Karolinska Institutet, I studied what happens in the brain when developing addiction. Based on this knowledge, my research group developed new drugs for the treatment of alcohol dependence. What happens with repeated intoxication of alcohol, for example, is that the brain's reward system changes. The normal mood in a sober state is reduced over time. Anxiety and depression become common. Instead of drinking to get a positive experience as you did when you started drinking, obsessive drinking is created to avoid feeling bad. In parallel with the changes in the reward system, the activity in the front part of the brain is also reduced, thereby weakening impulse control and the ability to resist the craving. It is these overall changes in the brain that make it feel superhuman to stop drinking alcohol or using drugs. Unfortunately, the myth persists that addiction would be the result of a weakness of character and that it is merely to uproot oneself. This is why many sufferers, and their relatives, all too often live with strong feelings of guilt and shame. Unfortunately, the strong stigma often permeates both treatment and treatment of people who live with addiction problems and addiction diseases. A change of mind is certainly needed here. Madam President, I would like When I took leave of absence from Karolinska Institutet to become active here in the Riksdag, one of my driving forces was to be able to use politics to improve the lives of people who ended up in an addiction problem. An addiction care without guilt and shame was the message on one of my election posters. I am therefore very grateful for the fine climate of discussion and the good cooperation that we have in the Committee on Social Affairs. We certainly do not think the same on all issues, nor do we have the same solutions to the problems. But we have managed to agree that there is a need to find solutions to several issues, and that can be vital for many people. I would like to remind you of what we have agreed on in the area of today's debate. Two years ago, Madam President, a united parliament directed a mission to the government to be a single principal responsible for the care of people suffering from co-morbidity between addiction and other mental illness. That investigation is in place, and I am really looking forward to hearing the proposals when they will be presented in the autumn. What I have heard so far makes me very hopeful that we can take great steps towards an addiction care without guilt and shame, that health care will be provided in health care where all other diseases are treated and that people with great care needs will not fall between the chairs in the way that happens with today's shared headship. Madam President, I would like A year ago, a united parliament directed a mission to the government to evaluate Sweden's drugs policy. Here we are still waiting for the government to act, and it is urgent. Human suffering in the wake of drug abuse is merciless, and drug mortality is too high. We need to find solutions to the emergency situation. However, I would like to emphasise, Madam President, that we Christian Democrats want a continued restrictive drugs policy. We are therefore opposed to decriminalising holdings for own use. In addition to the obvious damage to health and human tragedy, drugs have too great a negative impact on society, not least linked to crime. The use of drugs should therefore not be encouraged by lowering the testing thresholds. It would be devastating if this were to happen, and I would therefore like to call for the approval of Amendment No 10. However, we are convinced that there are other ways of achieving the goal of a zero vision for drug-related mortality. An investigation needs to be carried out to find the exact solutions. We believe that the foundation is a restrictive drug policy combined with factors such as, for example, easy access to evidence-based care with coherent care chains, punitive scales that promote care and treatment, and strong and widespread evidence-based preventive work. Today, Madam President, the committee has agreed on something that can literally save lives. It is about increasing the availability of naloxone – a medicine that can lift an overdose of opiates. We Christian Democrats have been exercising that relatives of people at risk should also be given access to naloxone so that they can quickly give a life-saving response in an emergency situation. If you have to wait for an ambulance, it may be too late. Today, the government is therefore given the task of reviewing how more groups outside the healthcare system can give naloxone drugs. We assume that the Government will give priority to the immediate implementation of the Parliament's will. Madam President, I would like There are several proposals from us Christian Democrats in today's report that have not been supported by the majority. For example, it is about developing Systembolaget's so-called extended service. We want it to be further developed in order to satisfy the needs of local producers to sell their products to a wider customer base. It is also about rating online games about money – the fast and highly addictive games that dominate advertising. We also highlight the importance of identifying effective measures to combat and prevent the risk consumption of alcohol among older people, which is a growing problem, not least in case of involuntary loneliness. Finally, Madam President, the Christian Democrats want all people to be able to grow up and live without the risk of being harmed by their own or others' use of ANDTS products. A clear political leadership and an appropriate ANDTS strategy are necessary and crucial for the success of the work aimed at achieving that goal. Two weeks ago, the government finally presented its proposal for a new strategy that will apply until 2025. We Christian Democrats note that we are deeply disappointed that the government has not been able to deliver a better and more appropriate product. The strategy needs to be significantly improved at several levels. Not least, a national competence centre for ANDTS prevention is needed. We shall debate this more about when we have dealt with the strategy in committee, and I look forward to constructive talks in that process as well.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-700	Madam President, I would like Between 2006 and 2019, drug and drug poisoning mortality increased by 79 per cent. That's a pretty good figure. We believe that drugs policy is no longer consistent and therefore think that we should evaluate the whole drugs policy, including the criminalisation of own use. Both Swedish municipalities and Regions and the Swedish Public Health Agency have supported this, as well as quite a few researchers. But, Madam President, as I understand it, the Christian Democrats do not want to investigate the criminalisation of their own use. For us, this is the case: if an investigation should show that criminalisation of its own use is a great idea and really leads forward, Madam President, we are releasing our position. However, I must ask the Christian Democrats a question. Why don't you want to investigate this?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-704	Madam President, I would like Many thanks, Karin, for the question! We're both passionate about this. Reducing drug mortality is extremely important. We need to find ways to get there. The Christian Democrats do not want to establish a directive that will evaluate decriminalisation per se. Having said that, however, I think it is important to look at this from a national perspective. What efforts have been successful in reducing drug mortality? Who hasn't been successful? We must also learn from experience in other countries. Criminalisation is often highlighted in the debate, and Portugal is often referred to as a positive example that has been successful. Although Portugal does not report to a public prosecutor, it is still reporting to an authority. Fast – within three days – an assessment should be made of whether you have an addiction and what the extent of your problems is. Sanctions can also be awarded on that basis. You might lose a professional license or something like that. I know that Karin is familiar with these parts. What has been done in Portugal, however, is to invest a great deal in health care and treatment. I think that's the key. In an investigation, it is important to look at all the efforts that have been made to see what the outcome has been. I would be surprised if it is precisely decriminalisation that stands out as something positive. I rather believe in good care and treatment.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-708	Madam President, I would like Sweden is quite lonely about its drugs policy. We have received a great deal of criticism from the UN and other countries. Norway is trying to launch this. They will vote on their proposal on decriminalisation. Portugal does a lot of other things. The Left Party does not have this as its only question. We have a hundred other different proposals on drugs policy. This, however, is surprising to me. I have ours to interpret the response of the Christian Democrats, Madam President. In my opinion, if you are going to investigate drugs policy, you should look at everything, such as what criminalisation leads to. Is it good or bad for the addicts? Then there is a white field of other measures. Of course, we believe that something more should happen if you remove the criminalisation when someone has drugs in their blood. Maybe you should see a doctor, a psychologist or something. If you're young, I'll give you a whole different kind of help. Today you get nothing, to be honest. We have legislation that is completely inconsistent. We have care and treatment that doesn't work. In my opinion, we have a bad drugs policy, and it has been bad this year after year, regardless of the government we have had. This is everyone's responsibility. You can't point out individuals. I am very keen to see an overall evaluation of the whole drugs policy, including criminalisation. If it turns out that criminalization is a fantastic thing to build into Swedish drugs policy and that it has meant an incredible amount of good things for the addicts, so fair. Then let's drop our proposal. But if you're going to do an investigation, I think everything should be on the table.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-713	Madam President, I would like I agree with Karin Rågsjö that it is important to look at the whole and evaluate all parts. But I do not believe that decriminalisation will be a decisive factor. That is why we believe that a directive to investigate decriminalisation per se would be counterproductive. On the other hand, we must look at all efforts from an international perspective. It is incredibly important that there is credibility in what the investigation concludes. If it emerges from the investigation and the evidence clearly shows that decriminalisation is not a key factor, as I believe, there are also arguments in the debate that want to steer in that direction. If you don't, the investigation can be completely rejected. Our position is that it is important to look at everything in a broad perspective. But, as I said, we do not want to lift decriminalisation in itself as the solution, because we certainly do not think it is. There are an incredible number of negative risks with one use. In Portugal, we see increased use of cannabis among young people after the decriminalisation was introduced there. It's very troubling. I think we can basically get along. Now we are not in the government and can control the directives. Maybe we'll never do it together either. Or what do you think, Karin? It is urgent to have the courage to look at the whole in an international perspective. ( Third VICE TALMANN: I remind you that we do not use only the first name, but it is the first and last name. We don't do each other either, even if it sounds nice. This is because of the custom we have in Parliament. )
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-719	Madam President, I would like It is a bit strange that a few hours ago we had tabled a motion on the ANDT strategy and then discussed the same issues here. But that's the way it has been. The exercise has been submitted to the World Health Organisation's International Health Day. WHO has been working on two lines to prevent ill health for many years. One is about suppressing and preventing the spread of infection. This is a matter of great concern in connection with the pandemic. The second is about preventing diseases caused by different lifestyles. This is where the addiction comes in. Now the strategy is called ANDT and so we add an S. Here I would also like to add an L for drug dependence, with which the WHO actually started working at the end of the 1960s when we received new tranquilizers and sleeping pills. You didn't think they'd create an addiction, but they did. However, these have been separated from this context, because it has been said that it is medically coordinated. Yes, they are, but they create addiction and are also on the black market. We want to remove the acronym ANDTSL – there can be as many letters as possible if you include sugar-dependent and much more – and simply call it addiction diseases. It is about preventing this in the most effective way possible and then helping those who are stuck in dependence to get out of it. It's hard. I think that Pia Steensland described very well what happens in the brain when you develop an addiction, whether it is tobacco, drugs, alcohol, doping agents and so on. I therefore support Amendment No 4, which seeks to change the classification of this. In this context, it is important to emphasise that what we are doing is evidence-based. In particular, there has been much faith and opinion in drugs policy, and there have been conflicts between social services and health care. The proposal in Gerhard Larsson's investigation to transfer what is about health care and disease prevention to health care is still a suggestion in the Liberals. We have also felt this here in Parliament that we are not the only ones who think. After all, this is a motion report, and then there will be a slightly different impact. We have raised a reservation here concerning the marketing of alcohol. Now with the digital platforms, there will be so many different paths to go out with fact-based information but also with boasts and opinions and beliefs. It can be very misleading, not least for young people, to read that you can minimize risks and maximize positive aspects. We believe that an analysis of what comes in these different ways is needed – what are the facts, and what are fake news? – and, by extension, show to young people in school education and so on how misleading information can be, not least in this area. I, who have worked with syringe exchange since the late 80s, have been happy about what I and the Liberals see as decisions in the right direction when it comes to making syringe exchange available. But there is still resistance in different places. We must make syringe exchange available and also treatment for the abuse that these people want to get rid of in a long way. Being stuck in an addiction, not having the freedom that you had before you got into it, is being free. This applies whether you are addicted to drugs, alcohol, nicotine, gambling or other things. We also bring up the snuff. Yes, smoking with lung cancer and such is a serious unhealthy factor. But the snuff isn't harmless. Nicotine is one of our most addictive substances and can be a gateway to other, heavier drugs such as drugs. We believe that we must also work on this line and also prevent the use of snuff and nicotine-containing products at all because nicotine is so highly addictive. To say the least, I am appalled when I learn what vascular changes children exhibit whose mothers have smoked during pregnancy. Smoking during pregnancy– it must be a zero vision for it. Now we have this pandemic with loneliness and isolation. I've been inside so many times on the isolation of the 70-pluses but also the restraining order and the loneliness of the retirement homes. Precisely for the 70-pluses, we have a very bad grip on what loneliness and isolation have led to in the overuse of alcohol but also of drugs. There we need a strategy to find out the existence and how we can help. Now it has been just over a year of this isolation, so there is a risk of being stuck in addiction. Treatment becomes more and more difficult to get back to a freer life and not to be free in dependence on alcohol and drugs. The last thing I would like to emphasise is the national knowledge centre, which must come into being. We will also come back to this in the motion on the ANDTS strategy. Several have expressed disappointment that it is so vague. I guess we haven't gone on rejections, but in all the considerations we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, we've changed, You should take firm action and not just consider.
i-4whpo3GcZRkr6jZEgTwMNH	Madam President, I would like Today's report deals with the motions received during the general exercise on alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling issues. As several others have mentioned, the new ANDTS strategy is on the table of the Riksdag. It will be discussed this spring and debated in June. It addresses all these areas with objectives, focus on action and coordination. The strategy includes a new long-term goal to protect children and young people from harmful effects caused by alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco and nicotine products and gambling. All of these are areas where people can end up in addiction and addiction, which also affects loved ones – especially children – and society as a whole. It is therefore important for society to work at different levels and different ways to curb addiction and addiction through preventive action and by helping people who have fallen wrong. There is also a great deal of work going on in these areas of counselling, support, treatment and care. One of the most important things we can do is work with prevention. I think preventive work aimed at children and young people is particularly important. Children need to be protected in several ways through restrictions regulated by law – through prohibitions, through age limits, and through the fact that advertising and strong marketing should not be designed to attract young people to a product that risks giving them an addiction, perhaps for life. The market is constantly changing, so we here in Parliament must always be prepared to act for the benefit of children. The municipality is an important player. It is often said that the best preventive work is to ensure that children pass school. It's a protection factor. The school provides a social context and an education that allows you to move on to work and higher education. The municipality is often the first party you come to when there are problems. Sometimes people ask for help for themselves, but very often it is the environment that reacts. For example, if a student has problems at school and you see that it is not learning problems but something else that affects, then the whole family can get help from the municipality through different efforts depending on the individual's needs. The association is another preventive party and another protection factor. By giving children and young people meaningful leisure time and employment with good companionship, we reduce the risk of them getting wrong. In the association life there are both adults and peers who can help and support and that you can talk to. Despite very good work, some people still end up in addiction. When we look closely at drug abuse, it can be said that we have a high drug mortality rate in Sweden. Some of the deaths are caused by opioid overdoses. Several moves have been made to give more professionals the right to give naloxone to reduce drug mortality. Happily, all parties in Parliament have supported these motions. In 2017, the Government commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the National Board of Health and Welfare to increase the availability of certain drugs in order to reduce drug-related mortality. Several measures have been taken. Among other things, non-legitimated ambulance and rescue services staff are now also able to provide naloxone in opioid overdose. Nurses have been given the right to prescribe naloxone drugs, something only doctors had to do before. Care and treatment is an extremely important part of getting out of an addiction, with the help of professionals working with evidence-based methods based on science and proven experience. But there is also a need for cooperation with municipalities and other actors involved. There are many different actors working against abuse and its consequences: authorities, regions, municipalities, organisations and voluntary forces. It is precisely voluntary forces that can be of crucial importance to the individual. With cooperation and collaboration on prevention and around those who need support, care or treatment, we can make a difference together. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-746	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for your speech. I very much appreciate that the honourable Member focuses so much on prevention and the importance of working together to achieve solutions and reduce the harm caused by ANDTS products in society. There has been a new strategy now, and, as I mentioned in my speech, we on the part of the Christian Democrats are disappointed by large parts of the strategy – that it has not caught up with the need for clearer national governance and management of the work to ensure coordination at county and regional level and help out in civil society to get management and structure. This is something we lack. What I would like to highlight with the honourable Member, Madam President, is how we create strong preventive work. I know that the honourable Member is also passionate about that question. Several with me today have highlighted the importance of having a national centre of competence for the preventive ANDTS issues. This is extremely valuable. Prevention is really a science, and you have to have knowledge and leadership so that you know which methods to use and so that they are implemented properly. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that a national competence centre based on the organisation of STAD, where you really are experts in this, can provide governance and leadership so that it seeps out into the capillaries and we are doing the right thing – so that all preventive work in Sweden is evidence-based and is done in the right way and is useful. I wonder whether the honourable Member is willing to discuss these issues and perhaps conclude that we can create a national competence centre.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-751	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Pia Steensland, for the questions relating to preventive work! Preventive work is a very broad concept. As I mentioned in my speech, it begins when children are young and, above all, when they come to school. Preventive work involves investing in school and education and helping children who are at risk of not achieving the school's learning goals. It turns out that a great many of those who end up in abuse have failed in school and thus have not been able to get the protection factor that it means if they pass their education. If you look at unemployment among them, often between 19 and 25 years of age, who have finished high school and are at the disposal of the labour market, you can see that a very large proportion of the unemployed lack full upper secondary education. This is number one when it comes to prevention. But it is also about other things: that we should ensure that the products on the market are regulated in a way that is good for children and young people. We will prevent new people from coming into use of various things. That is why I personally think it is very good in the new strategy that nicotine is also included in tobacco products. Nicotine has very harmful effects, especially on children. As Mrs Westerholm mentioned, it is also highly addictive, and what does it do for children? Here it is important to ensure that there are no products on the Swedish market that attract children and young people.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-754	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for your answer! I think that the answer well symbolizes the concept of the universal, comprehensive prevention effort. But prevention must take place at three different levels in order to be successful. The general thing is necessary, but it is also a question of selectively targeting not least children and young people who live in an environment or a family where there is abuse and of catching up preventive work for those who have come out of an addiction but need help, support and preventive work to prevent relapse. All these different levels are important to capture. That is what I mean: that different efforts need to be made at different levels, more pin-pointed. Out in municipalities and regions there is an incredibly strong will; you want to do the right thing, and you want to help these children. Unfortunately, however, there is also an ignorance of which methods are to be used and for which there is evidence. What actions should be used when and for which target group? This is where I believe that national skills and leadership, hands-on, are needed to educate and ensure that the right method is used for the right target group and, Madam President, in the right way. If we do not, it is a waste of our tax resources, which is a pity, but above all it is a betrayal of children who live in an abuse environment and are not being met by the efforts that are really needed. I therefore believe, Madam President, that a national competence centre would very well complement what the honourable Member describes, so I hope that we can have a discussion on it during the preparation of the strategy in committee.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-758	Madam President, I would like Yes, I never got to this with the center of knowledge, for speaking time ran out. It is clear that we should discuss all the possibilities that can lead us forward. It is just as Mr Steensland says: that we need to work at several different levels. Of course, we must also have a cohesive factor, because interaction between the various parties is essential in this. In all contexts, there should be advice, support and competence. Research links should also be included in this. How to choose to post it may be discussed, I think.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-759	Madam President, I would like Just as the honourable Member, Lena Emilsson, said, a functioning school and preschool mean a lot. And going out with grades from high school is number one, so to speak, to make it in the future. But there are very many children today who grow up in homes where there is dependence, specifically on alcohol. In Stockholm there is a very good business called Väpppunkt, which has been around for decades, which is working with children based on specific programs. They work with children from seven years of age and up to teenagers. This is voluntary, so to speak. The county doesn't have to arrange it. Should we not legislate for vulnerable children, such as dependent children, to have the right to their own help? Then it is not voluntary for municipalities to give this aid, as it is today. There are very many today who want an evaluation of drugs policy. It is not only the members of the Riksdag, it is also the Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, a number of researchers and so on who have worked on the issue. They also want to investigate and look at the criminalisation of their own use. Then I would like to ask the honourable Member: where is the investigation that you have promised? What do you want to watch? The Swedish Public Health Agency and SPR are not directly known for being legalizers. On the other hand, we want to raise the issue and look at whether criminalisation is good or bad. What happened to the investigation, and what's going to fit in it?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-764	Madam President, I would like I think that children should have their own right is an excellent proposal. How do you do it? If there is to be legislation, it will take a long time before it comes to fruition. However, it may be possible to resolve it on the basis of voluntary activity in the first place. If it does not work, then we must legislate on it. Of course, you can also have parallel processes. It is an important issue for children to have their own right, because many children live in families where there is abuse. At school or even in preschool, it has been observed that these children are not well. It is usually the municipality you come to when you see that it does not work. Therefore, it is very important to support the municipalities in this work so that they can help the children in all possible ways. Many municipalities have different programmes for children of parents with mental illness as well as for children of parents who abuse, usually alcohol but also drugs. Then there was the question of evaluating drugs policy. Yeah, that's a big question. I agree with Mr Steensland, who raised this with the fact that we cannot just look at decriminalisation. You should look at the whole legislation. I may think that it needs to be done at regular intervals, so it is something that I agree with anyway. We have had drugs policy for many years. Then there may be a need to review it. I think I'll have to take the rest in the next line shift.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-768	Madam President, I would like In the case of drug and drug poisoning, the mortality rate has increased by 79% between 2006 and 2019, so I think that is an issue we need to look at. Let's talk about the big picture. We are not at all interested in just looking at the criminalisation and laws. We want to look at the whole drugs policy. I really wonder where that investigation went, although I have every understanding that the government has been busy with the pandemic. I have another question while I'm at it. The Prime Minister and Morgan Johansson said, as the honourable Member Anders W Jonsson said earlier, that it is the upper class who drugs the most. That's not true at all, as it turns out. Drug use is clearly more common among the 20% who earn less than in the rest of the groups. So it is the young people who get the most ill who are most dependent and who use drugs the most. Madam President, I would like I wonder when the Social Democrats will go out and talk about this, because it is quite important. You may not be able to stand on TV and talk about anything based on your gut feeling, based on what feels best for the day and the way the wind blows. It may go home in the cabins, but it does not go home with people who have skills and who know exactly what it looks like. With such a statement you end up completely wrong in the drug debate. And then maybe you don't look at the areas that also have bad school results and preschools that don't work. So it's a whole environment where children and young people are allowed to go pretty bad before things happen. Madam President, I would like I would like to know whether the Member's party will come back with a corrigendum on this.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-772	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for these comments. I cannot tell the Prime Minister what to say in any statement, so I think I can hand that matter over to him at the time. Where did the investigation go? Yes, it's at the Government Office. As far as I know, it's in preparation, but what happens next, unfortunately, I can't answer. With regard to the high level of drug mortality, I think we need to look at a number of things. If we now look at the legislation as a whole, we also need to look at the prescription of medicines. Some of the over-the-life of the medicinal product leads to dependence on tablets that are prescribed by doctors. Then there's a big black trade. So I think we need to look at a lot of things when it comes to trying to overcome the problems. It is not a good thing that there is a prescription of medicines that leads to a severe and long-term abuse. It wouldn't have to be like that. Did I miss something?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-776	Madam President, I would like I can fall to Mr Emilsson in his speech. I definitely think she missed a lot. That is the reason for this change of line. What Mr Emilsson did not respond to and what the government parties do not respond to and what the government does not respond to is: How, how and how? How should prevention be strengthened? How can more lives be saved? How are we to achieve the fine words of the government's ANDTS strategy on drug-free society and on the new vision of no drug-related deaths? Member Emilsson and the Social Democrats are responsible for the answer. I listened carefully to the post and to the line before mine, but no answers came. Member Emilsson talks about the need to look at many different areas. Yes, but then mention a concrete measure that the government is looking at or preparing to proceed with! There will be no sharp proposals. There will be no concrete action. The recent ANDTS strategy is, in fact, quite a lot, Madam President, an air castle. There are not any new concrete actions described in that strategy, but one that goes on in the same track. With Europe's highest drug-related mortality– there are three times as many drug-related deaths here as in traffic – as a responsible party, I think, the question must be asked: what can we do further to reverse this trend? The Moderates propose, for example, an overdose strategy, a reinforced care guarantee within addiction care and a proper survey of how the heavy abuse looks like in Sweden and what access to care and treatment looks like. Is this something that the Social Democrats would like to support so that we can save lives and actually achieve the visions that the government and we have in common?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-779	Madam President, I would like We are not discussing the ANDTS strategy yet. You will have to do so in June. Then, of course, a lot of these questions will come back again on the basis of what is and is not in the strategy. When it comes to how to work it is, among other things, with coordination and that you should try to get everyone who works with these issues already today to be able to collaborate better and together get better at this. The Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have the task of providing some more advice and support to municipalities and actors who are involved in voluntary efforts and other things. They shall advise, support and coordinate. To some extent they are doing so today, but what is needed, of course, is to make the care chain work – from the municipality to the region and to the efforts that need to be made. It is an important area to coordinate these efforts, because it is very good work that is being done today, although I myself think that it is done far too little on the dependency part itself, i.e. the care part. There is a great deal more to be done, I think.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-782	Madam President, I would like It would be very interesting to hear what much more Mr Emilsson wants to see. She concluded her speech by saying that there is so much more to be done. All right, then tell me specifically what you should do further! These are the concrete measures that I am calling for and which I was so disappointed not to find when I read the Government's ANDTS strategy and when I listened to Mr Emilsson in this debate. I have had several debates with the Minister for Social Affairs on drugs policy and the fact that we do not even know how many patients are receiving LARO treatment or how many would need it. There have not been proper estimates since the late 90s of how many heavy addicts we have in Sweden. The fact that we do not have these basic knowledge and tasks makes it difficult, of course, to take further steps to develop care and interventions. As I said, we need to have a proper picture of what the problem is like in order to design the right solutions. Madam President, I would like One person that I suspect the Member Emilsson has had as a role model is Olof Palme. He said politics is to want. But politics must also be able to – to be able to respond to how to achieve the visions and objectives. It is therefore important to have an ANDTS policy based on clear, concrete objectives that are follow-up – they are not enough today. Having goals that are clear and not confused goals and tools is important. That is not the case today. There is a specific target for tobacco which says that it is the practice that should be reduced, but a reduction in use is, for me, a tool for reaching the target and reducing tobacco-related damage. There it has been confused by the government, and it does not seem to be prepared to adjust it. Madam President, I would like We need a changed ANDTS policy. We have a record drug-related mortality rate. A little self-criticism is needed, a review is needed and renewal is needed. But the Social Democrats seem to be completely uninterested in this. It's troubling.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-787	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that there was a question at the last, but it was more of a statement. Of course, this is a worrying situation, especially the issue of drug mortality. The new strategy, which is due to be debated on 14 June, I think it is, addresses a zero vision for this. I think that is very good, and it is an initiative that comes from Parliament. It's a good thing it's coming. There we are going to work on the issues on many fronts, including the naloxone issue, which we have raised today. The government has begun to take certain measures, including prescribing nurses and allowing non-identified staff in ambulances and rescue services to provide naloxone. That's a very good question. Then there is the whole part of preventive work on which I had a discussion with Mr Rågsjö. We must not forget the preventive part of ensuring that society as a whole works. There must be opportunities for good schooling for young people, there must be leisure activities for children and young people and there must be activities where children can feel involved. Parents must be able to feel that they also participate in society with work and other things. Now during the pandemic, unemployment has skyrocketed because the whole of society has had to shut down, but at least it went in the right direction before we entered the pandemic. Not only can you put a Band-Aid on the wound, that is, the abuse, but you have to see the basis of the addiction – the gaps in society, among other things. There are many different parts to this.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-792	Madam President, I would like This addiction is something that has become more and more topical during the postwar period; it is particularly evident with drugs. I guess alcohol addiction's been around longer. Politics has tried with the best of goodwill to do what it can from the point of view of faith and opinion. But that's not good enough, because faith and opinion can lead us wrong. We need to get facts. One issue I raised a little in my speech is that of syringe exchange programmes. We now have parliamentary decisions on this, but there are municipalities that are reluctant because it is against the drug-free society. In order to get rid of this opinion, it is important that we draw up the facts, and then my question is: Is there now any follow-up on what it looks like in the municipalities that are still reluctant to introduce syringe exchange programmes? How does the prevalence of HIV infection and the various forms of hepatitis develop, i.e. blood transmission? I think the only way to move forward is to get the facts about what it looks like and what the consequences are of not being involved in this. Or has another way of working been found?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-795	Madam President, I would like I do not know how the municipalities feel about this injection exchange. I have not heard that there has been discussion, but it has been about the regions and how the regions are working on this issue. In my own home region Skåne you have a program that works. There has been this problem for a very long time. It is well known that the syringe exchange program works and that both HIV and hepatitis have decreased since it was started. In other regions, I do not know whether it works in the same way. It depends, of course, on the extent to which problems have been encountered in this matter. It certainly differs between a region like Skåne, which is very close to Denmark and where there has been a lot of traffic back and forth with drugs of different forms, and other regions. I will have to take that question with me and come back to Barbro Westerholm about.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-797	Madam President, I would like Honest answers are wonderful! Then maybe we can get a follow-up on this. The second thing I want to mention is gambling addiction. When that question came up here first in the Riksdag and we were some who drove it they called us moraltants and said things like: Now it is a public health problem. We've identified the problem, but what about the treatment? That's my next question. Does the government follow up through its public health authorities and the National Board of Health and Welfare what kind of care and rehabilitation are people who have become addicted to gambling? I would like an answer to that.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-800	Madam President, I would like I would also like an answer to that, but I do not think it has come that far. There are addiction associations that have acted strongly on these issues. They feel that access to care and treatment is almost nonexistent today, and they believe that there is a great darkness in how many people are addicted to gambling. It's much bigger. The people you usually see, and who stand out, are the ones who get into financial trouble, but there are also many others who in the hidden have these problems. There is much to do here because there is not much science and tried and tested methods developed either. You will have to look at the question and see if it is possible to start research in this area. I guess it's somewhere you have to start.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-803	Madam President, I would like Today, as many have said before, we are debating motions relating to alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling, the so-called ANDTS issues. There are various proposals for decisions and reservations related to these issues. There is also a specific proposal in which we agree in committee, namely the issue of increased availability of naloxone – the medicine that reverses overdoses. Madam President, I would like Already in 2015 Region Skåne decided to start a three-year project with a clinical trial of naloxone. Driftful then was Environmental Party Regional Council Anders Åkesson. That attempt ran into a lot of problems, not least from the Medical Products Agency, with questions about who has the right to prescribe and so on. But among Skåne's most vulnerable and fragile lives were saved because naloxon is, like few others, a saving angel. In the same way as the syringe exchange programme and the introduction of drug-assisted treatment for addiction, so-called LARO, naloxone forms the foundation of a long-awaited recovery in Swedish addiction care away from stigmatisation, moralizing and opinion, in order to steer towards evidence, proven experience and damage minimisation. Madam President, I would like For too many years, Sweden has had too high a drug mortality rate. Ensuring high availability of naloxone will reduce mortality and save lives. Wherever different types of programs have been introduced to distribute naloxone in Sweden, we learn how overdoses have been lifted and lives saved. A figure that has been mentioned on the MPA's website is 453 occasions only in the Stockholm region for a period of one and a half years. It's 453 lives saved! This sends a clear signal to people in difficult addiction: Your life is important. Your life matters. If society isn't there, we want your friends to be able to save your life, because you're important. A great deal has been done in the past on this issue. Improvements have been proposed and rules have been amended as the prescription increases. Access to naloxone has become less complicated. But more needs to be done, and Sweden still has too high death rates. That is why I am pleased that several parties have proposed how we, together in committee, can agree to an announcement, as we are doing today. It is about the importance of making naloxone even more accessible throughout the country, that accessibility is monitored nationally and to review how more groups outside healthcare can give naloxone against overdoses. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity once again to thank my party colleague, Anders Åkesson, from Skåne, who paved the way for the decision we are going to take later today. Thank you, Anders! I support the committee's proposal for a decision in the report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-809	Madam President, I would like The environmental party is part of the government, and the party is then responsible for the inaction. Sweden has the highest mortality rate of drug dependence among European countries. A united parliament said just over a year ago that the issue needs to be investigated. We have to turn every stone around. But the answer from the government was that it was a stone that absolutely could not be turned. There is legislation from, I believe, 1987 which states that it is criminal in Sweden to be addicted to drugs, that is, to be caught with drugs in the blood. But this is absolutely not to be investigated, according to the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government. It's strange. There is extensive international research, which was last summarized a few years ago in a major review article in The Lancet, which shows that such a law is counterproductive. The requirement here is not for the law to be abolished, but for an investigation to be set up. Is it the case that the old legislation that has never been evaluated explains why there are relatively few people in Sweden who use drugs, or is it the reason why Sweden is the country that has Europe's absolute highest mortality rate among drug dependence? Why are the Green Party and the government so stubbornly opposed to doing the evaluation at all and seeing what it's like? Is it the law that has caused few people to use drugs in Sweden, or is the law the reason for the very high mortality rate? What is the basis for the Green Party's opposition to doing this evaluation?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-812	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member is asking about our stubborn opposition. After all, there are Question Time where these questions can be asked to the ministers. For my part and for the Green Party, we have said in Congress decisions, for example, that the current Swedish legislation must be evaluated. If I have understood correctly, Parliament has made an announcement to the government with a mission on the matter. I believe that this announcement could have been made more forcefully if it were precisely to want the government to set up an investigation. Then the government, I suppose, would have had to do it. But now the announcement was broad and wide, and thus it has been interpreted in such a way that the government has chosen not to allow an evaluation to be made.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-814	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I regard this as a positive opening on the part of Mr Nicklas. But the question remains. I know that the government says no, that is to say that it does not want to have the 1987 legislation evaluated. My question concerns more specifically what the position of the Green Party is. Is the Green Party prepared to carry out an evaluation of this law, which actually criminalises having the disease drug addiction? That is what it means. This is therefore a piece of legislation in an area where there are extensive international studies, including the summary contained in The Lancet, which says that this is counterproductive. Does the Green Party think that an evaluation should be carried out and actually look at what it is like – if the legislation explains that relatively few people use drugs in Sweden, or if this explains why we have an extremely high mortality rate in this socially extremely vulnerable group? That is my question. I know exactly what the government thinks about this, because from there the answer was clear: Although the Riksdag has requested a review of the whole drugs policy, the government – which has not yet set up the investigation into the whole drug policy – says that one issue that must not be investigated and evaluated is this. What I am extremely curious about is the position of the Green Party on this issue. Is it prepared to evaluate the 1987 legislation or not?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-817	Madam President, I would like I thought I was clear in my reply last time, Mr Jonsson: the Green Party's established line from the Congress is that we want to evaluate this. So it is clear on the part of the party. How the government then acts on this matter is something one may ask representatives of the government.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-818	Madam President, I would like I thought Mr Attefjord made a good contribution to the debate. What I particularly welcome is the talk of the need for a policy based on evidence, proven experience and knowledge. Unfortunately – and here all parties should be a bit self-critical – it has not always been so. In the follow-up to the Government's ANDTS strategy that the Moderates have launched today, we want to take further steps to ensure that the policy forward is based precisely on knowledge. We are seeing huge gaps in knowledge today, and, as I mentioned in a previous replica, it is for example the fact that we do not even know how many people are heavy addicts in Sweden today, how many people use opioids and how many injecters. Therefore, it is difficult to dimension care and monitor whether we are successful in providing the right care and treatment to this patient group. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Attefjord whether it is prepared in the Green Party to support such a proposal as the Moderates have to map out addiction care and the current state of the drugs situation, as a basis for work forward and for us to be able to approach the visions we have step by step. This applies, among other things, to the new vision announced by Parliament, namely that we should have zero drug-related deaths.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-821	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mr Hultberg. As the honourable Member said very clearly, the proposal was submitted today – I suppose it was a few hours ago – and I have not seen it. I have not been able to take a position on or evaluate the elements of this proposal. I assume, however, that in committee we are looking at all the proposals that come in, from all parties – including the government proposal that is on the table. Then the usual work is done in committee. When it comes to the needs parts, I can send you something back. Swedish healthcare should be provided according to needs. Responsibility for producing needs analyses, regulating how healthcare should be financed and deciding where to invest and which areas should be prioritised lies with the regions. Most of Sweden's regions are now governed by collaborations where the Moderates are leading. If the honourable Member, Hultberg, wants us to move forward the positions within Swedish addiction care, it is therefore possible to call, e-mail or otherwise contact the colleagues who are on the handlebars around the country and ask them to highlight, prioritise, expand and strengthen Swedish addiction care. Because that's where you can make a difference.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-824	Madam President, I would like As far as the latter is concerned, Mr Attefjord has, of course, an important and great point. I am happy to note that in Skåne, for example, where the Moderates are in charge, there are quite a lot of predecessors in this area. For example, a number of years ago, LARO has been introducing care choice systems, i.e. drug-assisted treatment of opioid users, which has proved very successful. Skåne has succeeded in what other regions in Sweden have not managed to do, namely to remove the queues and the lack of accessibility to this important form of care. We know that it saves lives and can create a better quality of life for people with this severe addiction and this severe addiction disease. However, I am in favour of the constructive spirit which I still see the honourable Member's response to me. It is clear, at least to me, that we cannot trust the government if we are to take steps forward in this area. Instead, it will be required that the Riksdag continues to address announcements and push the government ahead of it, because the government is obviously passive and does not have the initiative and the strength to take the work forward. On the issue of evidence and proven experience, I would like to raise it to the tobacco area. We know very well how dangerous smoking is. It is the main preventable risk factor for ill health – for COPD, cancer and many serious diseases leading to death. Today's tobacco policy means that the target is reduced use, not reduced damage. Is the Green Party prepared to support the proposals from us and other parties that this goal should be changed so that it is the damage that is in focus? I would also like to ask whether Nicklas Attefjord was serious at the seminar the other week where we discussed snuff. He pointed out that maybe snuff should even be sold in pharmacies. Is it really the position of the Green Party to make sales of snuff more difficult in this way?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-829	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. This is a seminar organised by the snuff manufacturers, who were very keen to increase their sales to minors. That's why I shot a little from my hip. It was not a play-off, but a contribution to the debate from me personally, not from my party. Well, that's one way of saying it. With regard to the nicotine component, which is an extremely potent chemical that creates extreme dependence, I think the important thing is to ensure that children and young people do not have access to it. It should be extremely tightly regulated when it comes to sales, in terms of marketing and in terms of how the products are launched – how to sell it. It has been quite clear that the industry's goal is to target a younger target group with new niche products. It's the optimal product for a company: Sell something that makes the customer chemically dependent, because then you have set up the customer for life! I therefore believe that there is a great deal to be done about the regulation of the sale of nicotine products, and that is where we need to improve.
i-4CSEZXJt9doivVmzf4yEY7	Madam President, I would like On 27 January this year, the European Commission published a research paper on ageing, promoting solidarity and responsibility between generations. In this context, the Commission also launched a public consultation and invited interested parties to comment. In EU work, it is called a Green Paper when the first step is to stimulate dialogue and discussion on an issue. The subject chosen by the Commission is well chosen, because the view of ageing needs to be discussed. That is why we in the Committee on Social Affairs felt that we would be happy to go into this for a while. We are therefore today giving our opinion on the Green Paper to Parliament. In the committee we appointed a working group consisting of Barbro Westerholm, Ann-Christin Ahlberg, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt and Karin Rågsjö. I would like to thank you, who have made a special contribution to ensuring that the committee has been able to carry out a good review. In this way, the committee contributes to knowledge and influence on the issue. Madam President, I would like The Green Paper contains many good things, not least that the public health perspective is becoming increasingly heard in the EU. It is important that each Member State sees the importance of broad public health work. We believe from the committee that the exchange of knowledge and experience is what the EU should primarily work with in the field of older people's policy. We do not want to see legislation at European level on these issues. I am pleased that the government has also expressed a similar attitude when it comes to informing the committee. We can see that there are differences between countries in terms of welfare policy. This means that measures must be shaped nationally, but through the exchange of knowledge and experience everyone can go further. These are public health issues, welfare technologies, housing and much more. Madam President, I would like A conversation about aging must always start with how we view aging. Older people are an asset to society as a whole. A welfare society can be assessed to a large extent on the basis of criteria such as respect for, exploitation of and care for the older generation. Older people should be able to live an active life and have influence in society and over their everyday lives. They must be able to age safely and independently. They should be treated with respect and have access to care. Everyone should be seen as a person with their own and unique value and with different interests and backgrounds. Good care when you need it, need-made housing and self-determination over your everyday life is a matter of course throughout your life. When I read the Green Paper, I get the feeling that the view of ageing is more that we should take care of older people than that older people are an asset to society. That is why we in the committee have stressed in our review that the view of ageing must be based on the fact that older people are an asset to society. How do we make use of that resource in society? What about democratically elected assemblies? What about civil society and private companies? Do we have structures that hinder, or do we have structures that enable an active life as long as I want? It is urgent to talk about ageing and how we promote solidarity and responsibility between generations. I hope that the Green Paper will lead to an in-depth discussion in Europe. We will do our part through work at home for the Swedish part. With those words, I would like to forward the committee's unanimous opinion to the House. We have therefore carried out our review of the Green Paper on Ageing.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-844	Madam President, I would like This debate is about the European Commission's Green Paper on Ageing, entitled Promoting solidarity and responsibility between generations. We Social Democrats think it is positive that issues of ageing and the elderly are on the political agenda, and we welcome the Green Paper. The aim of the Green Paper is to create a broad debate on ageing and the different challenges and many opportunities it actually presents. It is gratifying that the Committee on Social Affairs agrees on the report and that the committee agrees that the different national rules should apply. Much is about different laws and social security and how welfare has been built up. But it is also about working life conditions, pensions in the various countries and so on. To exchange experiences and learn from each other we welcome; we think that is a good thing. Over the last 50 years, life expectancy in Europe has increased by about ten years for both women and men, which is very positive. It is important that we see the older generation as an asset and that we have a modern and respectful view of the elderly. Age discrimination does not create opportunities; it only creates gaps between generations and limits people's ability to live fully every day of their lives. We are increasingly healthy and more active as year-rich, and we want to be involved in social development and be able to influence the whole of our age. We need to talk more about what we can contribute to as we grow older and what we want to do as a year-rich. How can we still be active and feel needed in working life, social development and society and have the right to lifelong learning? There are great differences here, for example, when it comes to the possibility of working a little longer or shorter because of working conditions, your own health or the economic opportunity. There is a great potential for development here. This is also an important gender equality issue, as women and men do not have the same working conditions and opportunities to work because of a lack of childcare facilities and because women still take more responsibility for children and families, which has a negative impact on women's income and pensions. There are also huge differences here in the EU countries. If you want to work a little longer, it is important to have that opportunity and that employers see the skills that year-long have after a long working life. You can train, you can mentor and mentor, something that is very important and that is often needed. We must continue to improve working life so that it does not wear out, so that more people can work until they want to retire themselves and so that many are not forced, as is often the case today, to go down in working hours or to retire early because they are worn out of their job. Many questions are raised precisely in the Green Paper, which is important to discuss both nationally and in the EU context. How can we be better at using technology and digitalisation more to live as independent a life as possible when we become year-rich? How do we want to live, and how and where do we build for years? How long should working life be? How can lifelong learning continue throughout life? Yes, there are many more questions to ask. The right to decide for yourself is equally important regardless of age. Here we can ask ourselves: What do we want? Do we want to learn new things when we have more time? Is there a possibility then? Do we want to live near preschool with life and movement, or do we want to live next door to the cemetery where the calm is? The answers will be different, because we think differently. The different countries of the EU also have different conditions. But we can exchange thoughts and ideas and learn from each other, which is so important and extremely valuable. Finally, Madam President, having a long, healthy and contentable life, where you feel needed, can affect and be involved and be seen as a resource and not be discriminated against because of the number of your age, creates opportunities but also a more modern and fair view of age-rich people. It creates solidarity and understanding between generations.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-860	Madam President, I would like At the end of the 1800s, a large number of people were displaced from Sweden due to misgrowth and hunger among the population. They stepped on one of the American boats that took people across the Atlantic. One of those who emigrated was my grandmother's brother. Life expectancy was 50 years. My grandmother remained on the farm, where she, along with her parents and later with her husband, used the land. That is what Sweden looked like. Most of them lived in the country. My mother was born over 100 years ago and grew up in the country. Now the average life expectancy was 60 years. In her youth, she went to the big city to find a job and start a family. There I was born in the middle of the last century. By then, life expectancy had risen to 68 years. With my generation, progress has been very rapid for technology as well as life expectancy, education and work with associated higher living standards. Demographic developments have shifted. Much has changed. The generations of my children and grandchildren can hardly imagine a society without running water and electricity like what my grandmother grew up in. Madam President, I would like We Moderates wish that society looked at the last ten years of a person's life in the same way as in the first ten years: with expectation, hopes, faith in the future, respect and consideration. Life expectancy increases by three and a half hours each day. It is amazing that we add more healthy and active years to our lives. That is why it is also important that we look with respect at our year-rich people. Society must make better use of the knowledge and experience of a senior. But you could also say as such: Listen to older people – not because they are always right, but because they have more experience of being wrong! Surely, over the years, we also learn from our faults! Most important, Madam President, is that each individual is the starting point. Our values are shaped by our view of man. We will listen to each individual's wishes. If you look at this in a European perspective, you see incredible differences. Some countries still have the standard we had 100 years ago, while others have a high level of technology and a high average age in the population. The Green Paper we are now discussing highlights precisely the various aspects of ageing and an ageing population, where the average age is rising. But ageing affects all phases of life: education, employment, pensions and, not least, care of various kinds. Madam President, I would like How, then, are we to lay the foundations for healthy ageing and lifelong learning? In my world, a thousand flowers can bloom. There's not just one way to lay a foundation. It can be a healthy life with good diet and physical activity, but it can also be about getting to experience association with others, painting, singing in choir or something else. However, it is important to ensure that work is coherent, coordinated and systematic with health-promoting, preventive and long-term measures. We have seen in the past pandemic year that mental illness has increased at the higher ages, when people have not felt seen or needed and forced to be isolated. The most healthy thing is that you feel that you have an enriching job and have the opportunity to work as long as you can. Unfortunately, we see that working life does not support the way it could. There is a great deal of discrimination, as legislation does not allow everyone to be in employment in the way they would like. It should be made easier for older people and people with disabilities to have adapted tasks and working hours. We should vigorously counter the ageism that we see in society. Madam President, I would like There are new opportunities for older people. With the medical advances we have many in retirement age who are in good shape and active and want to participate in the construction of society. There are many of us who work after retirement and contribute to society and welfare. Many seniors also do incredible volunteer work. Digital development also facilitates everyday life for all of us, both for healthy people and for those in need of care. There are many exciting development opportunities here. We Moderates welcome a discussion about the opportunities and challenges that we have in society around an ageing population. It is good to have perspectives from different parts of the EU. This can form the basis for a knowledge bank that can be extremely valuable to all EU states. However, I would like to express with determination that I do not believe that the EU as an institution should interfere with the different laws of the individual states on these issues; here the principle of subsidiarity should apply. Madam President, I would like We Moderates support the committee's proposal to add this opinion on the Green Paper to the document.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-872	Madam President, I would like Demographic developments in Europe have led to an ageing population, a trend that is expected to continue for a long time to come. While life expectancy has increased, the average number of births has decreased. The Green Paper, which we are debating today, deals with issues relating to the challenges and opportunities of the ageing population in Europe and demographic change. The aim is to launch a broad policy debate on ageing and various options for addressing the challenges and opportunities of demographic change. The Green Paper highlights many good aspects. In particular, the Commission highlights the importance of finding the right balance in terms of justice and solidarity between generations and the challenge of maintaining an adequate level of social protection without placing too much burden on the shrinking working-age population. The Commission highlights issues such as addressing the socio-economic impact of ageing but also the importance of participation in society. The Commission notes, as we fully agree, that the competence to deal with the effects of ageing lies largely with the Member States, but the EU is well placed to identify trends and support measures at local, regional and national level. The Green Paper highlights several issues that are important to us Swedish democrats. These include promoting healthy habits throughout life, such as diet and physical and social activity. It is about seeing the potential of increasing the employment of people with disabilities, which requires reasonable adjustments and an accessible working environment. With regard to staff shortages in the health and social care sector, the Commission highlights, among other things, measures such as ensuring attractive working conditions for staff, which is an incredibly important issue for us. Other important issues highlighted are that access to healthcare risks being restricted for economic reasons, staff shortages, long waiting times and too long distances to the nearest health care facility, which unfortunately is already a fact for Sweden. The increased risk of loneliness and social isolation is another problem highlighted. This means that the issue must not only be about the quality and cost of social services, but also about social needs. Like the government, we welcome the exchange of knowledge and experience in this area, as Member States face similar challenges in the future in terms of a changing labour market, digitalisation and demographic development. At the same time, it is of the utmost importance and cannot be stressed enough that Member States' powers to decide whether their national welfare systems must be respected. Therefore, no decision should be taken that would require binding legislation for the Member States, but rather would involve overall knowledge acquisition, sharing of experience and good practice. That is the strong opinion of the Swedish Democrats, and here the other parties are also united. The committee's opinion is a good and clearly worded text. We fully support it and look forward to further work on these issues, as there seems to be a great deal of agreement and consensus. I request that the statement be added to the file.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-884	Madam President, I would like One might well ask why we in the Swedish Parliament should discuss the question of how the EU can work with ageing issues. This is a legitimate question because the EU has no decision-making power in this area at all. This is an area where it is very clear that decisions are made here in the Swedish parliament, by our regions and by our municipalities. Nevertheless, European cooperation can be used for something that is very important. It is to be able to compare how successful one is in different countries with these issues. It is quite clear that we have a great deal to learn from each other, Madam President. There are some areas where it is very difficult to compare. It is, for example, a matter of health care and care. It is simply because it is organised in very different ways in European countries. In continental Europe and especially in the southern parts of Europe, much more is on the family to deal with. Here in the northern parts of Europe, we think it is extremely important that you can be an independent individual even when you become year-long. This makes comparisons difficult. Nevertheless, it is possible to look at the results, how satisfied you are with your life situation and so on. What we have in common throughout Europe and, in fact, throughout the world is what we call the demographic challenge. It is sometimes presented as something negative. That is not the case, Madam President. Basically, we live a lot longer. We're healthy way up in the years. Life expectancy has increased significantly. This is fundamentally fantastically positive. We do not die in war, and we do not die of starvation and infectious diseases. This, combined with fewer and fewer children being born, poses a great deal of challenges in society. Here, Sweden is quite good mainly because we have a relatively high birth rate. It is, of course, linked to the fact that we have a very developed parental insurance policy. We have a preschool which means that women in Sweden do not need, as in other parts of Europe, to choose between making a career on the one hand and having a child and starting a family on the other. It's a force. Nevertheless, we also have these challenges in Sweden. This is particularly the case in two areas. It is about the economic consequences of this. Fewer and fewer people are of working age, and more and more people are not working. It is also another challenge we have in terms of demographics. Health care is something that the most year-rich consumes to a greater extent than the rest of the population.It is clear that we are facing a challenge here too in Sweden. It is about who should work in health care. It is also something that we have in common with other countries. One issue highlighted in the Green Paper that I and the Center Party find very interesting is: what can we do to ensure that even when you get rich years, you have more years of health? There we should use the method that we have so successfully used to ensure that our children and young people in this country are healthy. It is about an extended older health care programme in which we work in the same structured way as we do with pregnant women, the newborns and in the Swedish school also in relation to the year-long part of the population. It is important to have a structured look at: Which vaccinations should be offered free of charge? What should it be in the form of preventive home visits and so on? Madam President, I would like When talking about prevention, some may think that the most important thing there is to invest in young people. In fact, if you want the money spent quickly, it is not least the older part of the population that you should target. There you get very quickly back the money spent in the form of reduced costs of healthcare and care. Madam President, I would like There is one area in which I think we have a great deal to learn from other European countries and where we are in rather bad shape. It's about the involvement of the year-rich. Other countries are more successful not least in ensuring that they have a participation in political life and in civil society, and also that they have a different importance than in Swedish society. In Swedish society it is still the case that when you pass 60 or 65 and approach 70 years, you no longer have an active part in society in the same way. Here, Madam President, we could learn a great deal from other European countries where people who are rich in years have a completely different position in society. Although the EU has nothing to decide on in this area, I and the Center Party look forward to seeing that, not least by comparison, we can make ourselves a lot of life. This can lead to an even better existence for the year-long part of our population. I support the committee's proposal.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-901	Madam President, I would like As many here have said, demographic developments in Europe mean that there are more and more older and fewer people born. It looks different in different parts of Europe, and just as Anders W Jonsson said earlier, it depends, for example, on what one has for gender equality and equality policy in the countries. For example, it is a question of whether women want to have children and whether they should be able to work at the same time. But it is also time to see the elderly as individuals – or year-rich, as you say here in the pulpit. Because that's not exactly what we're doing today. We're talking about years-rich in lumps. Everyone becomes like a lot, and it has been specifically so during the pandemic. I don't usually talk about Queen Silvia so much from here, but she has said: I've never felt as 70-plus as now. I think a lot of people can sign that. The difference between older people and their circumstances and their views on gender equality varies greatly across Europe. It is also about the fact that welfare is very different. Fortunately, in the Green Paper there is no binding legislation, because then we would not have talked about it here today. It is more about a way of dealing with each other and learning from each other, and there are hopefully opportunities to do so. This may, for example, apply to the use of technical and digital tools. That course, Madam President, perhaps one should have had before vaccination started in this region – a course in digitality and how to get there. It is also about making sure that we develop good forms of housing and how to ensure that people get in touch with others so that they do not become isolated. Regardless of the country, it is also a matter of respect for the years-rich as individuals. Yearly or older – if I may put it that way – is also a resource in politics. Here it looks very different in the world. In the Swedish Parliament very few are over 60 years old, and 65- and 70-plusers are a rarity here. But if we look out over the world, it does not look like that, but you may see year-rich people as a greater asset in other countries than in Sweden. There are great opportunities to take advantage of the skills of year-long people. In addition, very many years-long, older, are more healthy and active today than before, for example because we have a better standard of living. But there is also a difference today in how you get older. It's about what your background is. It is one thing to be 65-pluser and be healthy, not have a worn-out body and have a good pension to look forward to. Then you can count your money and feel: Wow, I'm going to get a great old age! I will be able to travel to Portugal every two months. It's another thing to be worn out and have bad finances. Class plays a very big role regardless of whether you are Greek or Swedish. Inequality is universal. The committee believes that a conscious view must be taken of older people as experienced and valuable citizens of society who can also contribute to the labour market and continue to work in their jobs – those who are able to do so. If you have a job that is not heavy and a body that works, you are better placed to stay than if you are a person with heavy work. You will then have much less opportunity to extend your working life. This primarily affects women, and we know that the earlier you retire, the worse your pension will be. You just get it difficult financially. This is very common among single women, for example. It will be difficult when they get older and retire. Some get to play golf, and others get to pick cans. That is the life of pensioners today. Madam President, I would like In the Green Paper, the Commission highlights the importance of discussing how people can be involved in society. Older people can be particularly affected by discrimination if they are also disabled, for example, women– as you know, it can be a minus sometimes – or LGBTQ person. There is discrimination that simply makes it difficult for older people to comply with their rights. It is extremely important to be able to look at year-long individuals as individuals with different needs, opinions and conditions. A person's ability or need shall not be based on age. This can never be the case, but you have to see older people as individuals with backpacks filled with experience and take advantage of it.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-914	Madam President, I would like I am extremely pleased and proud that we in the Committee on Social Affairs have been able to agree on the opinion on the European Green Paper. We are in agreement, and we are having a debate in this House – but a debate in which we all stress the importance of seeing year-rich people as individuals and as an asset in society. We say that the report is added to the documents. But this will not bury it, but will form part of all the referrals received from the EU Member States and from all EU organisations dealing with older people's issues, as well as LGBT issues and so on. This will be a very broad basis for the EU to move forward with. This is important, because the Green Paper gives a partly archaic view of the situation of year-rich people on the basis of our starting points. They describe long-term care just as we had it in the 80s before the noble reform, when we got retirement homes where you could live with your own contract. This shows the importance of the forthcoming exchange of experience. Here, we are pleased to have the help of the World Health Organisation in what is actually lacking in the Green Paper: a discussion on the basis of the unequal treatment of year-long people, namely ageism. It is surprising that no more is included in the Green Paper on Ageism, which takes place in all sectors of society, where year-long people are distributed. A directive against age discrimination was adopted in 2000 and the Council of Ministers proposes to broaden this directive to include not only working life and education. We in Sweden, thanks to the work that has been done in Europe, have our broad law against age discrimination. WHO began to work against ageing in 2002 in connection with the UN's major older people's conference. Then, in 2016, a worldwide campaign against ageism was launched, a prejudiced view of years - rich people. In Sweden we have not noticed the campaign. I asked a question to the minister responsible, who did not have a proper grasp of the fact that there was a campaign going on. Now, on March 18, 2021, the WHO has launched a new campaign against the fundamental problem of ageism. There it has been shown that this prejudiced view of years - rich people costs money. In the United States, the age - old view of year - old people in health care costs 63 billion dollars a year for treating major diseases. So this mistreatment, or the treatment that does not apply to this generation, is appalling also in economic terms and not only in terms of quality of life. We must see years-rich people as individuals; it has been said by several. We must see them as an asset to society throughout the journey of our lives. You should feel needed even during the last days of life and feel like an asset with the experience you have, what you can tell and so on. These are experiences that are important to take advantage of. In this context, I have mentioned how clearly it has become in the retirement homes during this isolation period that people who have lived there have not felt needed: Why am I 103-year-old when I am not allowed to meet my soul's loved one, with whom I have lived for 70 years? Then it comes in: Sure, there may come a day when I will experience hugging the love of my soul. But as a substitute for accommodation with animals you have at least had to hug a cat or a dog and thus feel so needed that you want to try to live a little more to be able to hug also your soul's beloved. I am pleased that we are all in agreement and see this as a platform from which we can all continue to work towards ageing. Everyone should feel needed, as an asset, and live with quality of life until the last day of life.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-924	Madam President, I would like The fact that the world would suffer from a virus that would take the lives of many elderly people and restrict life for virtually all year-rich citizens of the Union was probably not something that the Commission knew when it released its Green Paper in January. One could look back on this year as a year that has largely been about solidarity with just year-long inhabitants. The year 2020 was the year when we got a virus that turned out to hit older and fragile harder. It was also the year when many young people, both in Sweden and throughout the Union, literally changed the whole society. Recommendations were followed. In other parts of the Union, various forms of lockdowns were introduced to protect the fragile elderly. It could be seen as an expression of intergenerational solidarity. For the individual, perhaps it was more about an act of solidarity with Grandma and Grandpa or Grandma and Grandpa. But enough about the pandemic. Ageing is the most natural biological process there is. An increased life span is perhaps the clearest sign of how we, as a society, can redistribute resources and wealth that we together create. Through education, universal health care, vaccination programmes, health and safety legislation and better nutrition, we have together in a few generations created a society where more and more people experience a richer and longer life. Speaking of richer lives, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight one of the committee's wise points in the report: in working life but also in other sectors of society. In the Green Paper, the Commission highlights the importance of discussing how it can be ensured that everyone can be involved in society. The committee believes that a central part of this discussion is to point out the existence of age discrimination and how to counteract negative attitudes or prejudices about older people. ..................................................... Furthermore, some older people may be particularly affected if they are also exposed on the basis of some additional grounds of discrimination, such as older people with disabilities, older women or older LGBTI. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I would like to stay with the latter group, which, by reducing personal autonomy, not least in line with, for example, increased healthcare needs, often testify to the fact that in the past people could live openly as LGBT people but are now more or less literally forced back into the closet. This is certainly not worthy of a country like Sweden or the citizens of our Union, which, with laws, conventions and clear ambitions, has worked for inclusion and that one should choose to live one's life as one wants and love who one wants to love in order to have a richer life. These very individuals who are being double discriminated against, we probably need to increase our focus on the future. All older people should be able to age on their own terms. As the committee also states, elderly people have the same rights as everyone else to participate in all parts of society, and it is important, in the Committee's view, not to regard all older people as a single group. Like other people in society, older people are individuals with different needs, opinions and conditions. ..................................................... Having said that, I would also like to support the committee's proposal, which I understand means that we are adding the Green Paper to the document.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-932	Madam President, I would like Being affected by a disease is always unwanted and sometimes serious. It affects life in many different ways. Both the disease itself and sometimes the treatment you receive affects life. Cancer belongs to those diseases that are serious and have a high mortality rate, although more and more people survive their cancer. The important research work is crucial for the survival of more and more people today – research leading to new treatments, early detection and prevention that saves lives. The development in health care is amazing in many different ways. There is today a form of cancer that we could eliminate, and that is cervical cancer. We can do so because we have a good situation before. Through a concerted national effort, we could, over a period of five to seven years, eradicate or eliminate cervical cancer in Sweden. It's a great opportunity. Let me tell you more, Madam President. Cancer caused by human papillomavirus, HPV, is one of our most common and serious cancers that affects both women and men. Almost all cervical cancer is caused by HPV. In the early stages, cervical cancer causes few or no symptoms. Therefore, screening with cell sampling is important for early detection. The average age of a woman to become ill with cervical cancer is about 55 years of age, and a quarter is less than 40 years of age. Every year about 500 women in Sweden receive cervical cancer, or cervical cancer as it is also called. That's half the number of cases compared to the 1960s. The decrease is associated with women being regularly called to gynecological cell sampling. The cell sample is taken to detect and treat premature cervical cancers, called cell changes, and they do not mean that you have cancer. Early detection makes the treatment more effective. Since 2020, last autumn, all children are offered free vaccination against the most common HPV types. It was boys who were born last fall. Girls have been offered vaccines since 2012. Vaccines save lives. Madam President, I would like Vaccinations with regular gynaecological cell sampling between 23 and 64 years of age provide very good protection against cervical cancer. With good vaccination coverage among boys and girls it is possible to eliminate this form of cancer. Today, there are women at risk. It may be women who have left the screening program, it may be an incomplete follow-up and it may be women who have never been offered HPV screening. Sweden's national quality register for cervical cancer prevention has found that approximately 230 000 women in Sweden are at high risk. Through catch-up vaccination and catch-up screening, i.e. targeted efforts, we can reach this group. But it requires that it be done nationally and collected for a few years so that we stop the virus from circulating. Everyone involved must be reached if we are to succeed in eliminating cervical cancer. Madam President, I would like In 2016, the WHO called for the global eradication of cervical cancer, and the EU has included it in the proposed European Cancer Strategy. The reason is that it is the only cancer we can eliminate today through screening and vaccines. That's why we're gonna do it, too. Madam President, I would like The greatest gain is that we save suffering and death. It is as I mentioned about 500 women who are affected per year and about 150 who die. Severe illness and death affect us. Of course, it affects those closest to them — family and friends. But society is also affected when people suffer severe illness and death. The National Board of Health and Welfare estimated in 2014 that cervical cancer costs the community SEK 175 million each year. Eliminating cervical cancer is extremely important for every human being and for society as a whole. If we carry out a national campaign for five to seven years, the cost is approximately SEK 25 million annually. So it is socio-economically effective to do this, so what are we waiting for? We need a national task force that has the knowledge to implement this, and we need a government that ensures that it happens. Today we have national working groups which together have all the knowledge that would be needed to eradicate cervical cancer. Regional cancer centres in collaboration hold together the national work on the national cancer plan. Within this framework, it is the Working Group on the Prevention of Cervix Cancer, NAC X, and the National Quality Register for Cervix Cancer Prevention, NKC X. These together constitute the knowledge that the government can use to make the action plan effective and reach out to everyone. The committee therefore proposes that the government develop an action plan and do so together with these working groups where the knowledge is available. I am pleased to be able to support the committee's unanimous proposal that the government should draw up an action plan so that we can eliminate cervical cancer.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-947	Madam President, I would like This speaker's chair is sometimes the scene where the various political parties break opinions with each other and express opposing views. I also know that there can sometimes be quite hot rounds in this speaker's chair. This time, I don't think that's gonna happen. It is a united social committee that supports this proposal for an announcement, and I agree with very much of what Mr Ankarberg Johansson said in his previous speech. I think that was wise. Madam President, I would like When I'm out talking about healthcare in Sweden, even when I was an opposition politician, I usually talk about how proud I am of Swedish cancer care. It is in many ways an international example. We have a fantastically well-functioning cancer care in our country that has led to longer survival and great success over the decades. Acko Ankarberg Johansson rightly mentioned that the mortality and disease of cervical cancer has halved since the 1960s, and there are a wide range of other cancers where you can see similar outstanding successes for Swedish cancer care. I would therefore like to express my thanks to the health professionals who are doing this wonderful job and to the researchers who are making up new medicines and, in this case, to completely new vaccines that will be able to rid women of this scourge in the first place. I would also like to thank the pharmaceutical industry and the talented people who work there to produce new, amazing medicines. So there is reason to be very proud of this. The reduction in mortality since the 1960s is largely due to a screening programme that has largely been well-functioning. But even in this screening programme there are shortcomings. I know that in vulnerable residential areas in Sweden there have been difficulties in reaching out with information to women who would need to come and conduct a screening. Many have experienced the calls from the regions as very bureaucratic and government-oriented, almost a little frightening. So there is reason to consider how to improve the screening programme across our regions. In the last few years we have had access to the vaccine, which represents a revolution in this area, first for young girls and then also for boys. There are now opportunities to eradicate cervical cancer, and I think it is perfectly obvious that we should try to do this. That is why we Social Democrats, too, support this announcement. However, as an old regional politician, I would like to say that I do not think we should wait the regions out. I think it is a good idea to start this work now. It is not the case that the regions lack the resources to be able to take action in this area. In recent years, a number of agreements have been made between the state and the regions in areas such as women's health and cancer care. It is also as if all the regions in Sweden are going with large surpluses. Therefore, when we know that the annual cost of implementing such a programme is SEK 25 million, I do not understand why we are waiting for the regions. If I were still a regional politician, Madam President, I would make a proposal directly in my own region to start work immediately and not wait. This is a good proposal which we wholeheartedly support. Several parties have also made a special statement, and I would like to comment on that. Although we support this particular announcement and think that this is very good, we believe that we should be a little careful when it comes to announcements concerning individual diagnoses and diseases, otherwise it becomes unreasonable to work with the overall cancer care system. We also believe that there is a need to balance the resources available and to strike a sensible balance between the anticancer efforts that need to be made. I support the committee's proposal.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-957	Madam President, I would like Sweden should aim to become one of the world's first countries to eradicate cervical cancer. With this committee initiative, that objective can become a reality. Together with the Christian Democrats on 4 February, the Moderates proposed a committee initiative in the Social Committee to eradicate cervical cancer. It is gratifying, as we can hear here today, that all the other parties in the committee have also supported the initiative whereby, within the framework of a new and updated national cancer strategy, the government will implement a systematic and long-term national initiative in the form of an action plan to eliminate cervical cancer in Sweden in total within five to seven years. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we all know someone close to us who has suffered from cancer. As mentioned earlier, research is progressing, and several are cured of their cancer but unfortunately far from all. The importance of prevention and early detection of all types of cancer cannot be stressed enough. When there is an opportunity to eradicate a cancer, it is the responsibility and duty of politics to act. This investment, which is estimated to cost SEK 25 million per year, can lead to the eradication of cervical cancer in Sweden after five to seven years. After breast cancer and skin cancer, cervical cancer is the third most common cancer in women between 20 and 49. Every year, approximately 550 women – Acko mentioned earlier 500 – suffer from cervical cancer in Sweden, and 150 die each year in the disease. Children lose their mother, parents lose their daughter, and partners lose their loved ones in this terrible disease. Cervical cancer is a disease that develops slowly, is difficult to detect and is often without symptoms, which means that the cancer can remain undetected for some time. Having said that, it is essential that we women go to our screenings when the summons comes. As Mrs Dag Larsson mentioned, the regions should also gather their efforts to get women to come to screening. It's extremely important. Madam President, I would like Cervical cancer is the first cancer for which the World Health Organization, WHO, has targeted global extinction. Several countries have therefore launched eradication programmes. Sweden has not so far done so. The screening programme that we have in Sweden took the decision of the National Board of Health and Welfare in 2015, and it is very gratifying that with Sweden's current vaccination strategy, the HPV virus will be eliminated for children and young people born in 2007 and onwards. Since 2015, girls in grade 5 have been vaccinated, and from last autumn, boys in grade 5 are also vaccinated. That boys should be included in the vaccination program was something we moderates were strongly driving to. The Public Health Agency last week released a report on how the vaccination coverage for HPV was in school last year. Happily, vaccination coverage was high for both boys and girls, despite the covid-19 pandemic. Despite a strained situation, child health care and pupil health have vaccinated almost as many boys as girls in grade 5. Madam President, I would like In order to stop the spread of the virus that causes HPV, women who have not received vaccination at school and who are at risk of having cervical cancer need to receive vaccination. Through systematic vaccination and screening, many women's deaths in cervical cancer are prevented. By means of a concrete national action plan consisting, in particular, of two horizontal elements, the disease can be eradicated. This is the so-called catch-up screening, which means that women who have now passed the upper age limit of the national screening programme will be offered screening. The risk of cervical cancer increases with age, and older women must be allowed to participate fully in the programme. The second part is the catch-up vaccination. In connection with their first screening at the age of 23 or 26, women should be offered vaccination against cervical cancer and receive good protection against the disease. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the Liberals, the Center Party, the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party for having all supported this initiative. For me, it is policy for real when, together, we can ensure that no more women are affected by this terrible disease. Let us put an end to this together! Madam President, I would like I can promise that we Moderates will closely follow the action of the Government on this issue. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Let me add one more thing: as an old regional politician, I can very well support what Mrs Dag said about the regions starting much earlier on this.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-971	Madam President, I would like Gynaecological cell screening is a very successful cancer prevention effort and a successful measure to reduce both the number of cervical cancer cases as well as the high mortality rate. Sweden currently has a comprehensive screening programme. Nevertheless, about 550 women suffer from cervical cancer each year, and about 150 women die annually. This means that a woman dies of cervical cancer every two to three days. Human papillomavirus is called the virus that is responsible for virtually all cervical cancer, and therefore vaccination with HPV vaccine can provide protection of approximately 90%. The aim of the World Health Organisation is to eradicate cervical cancer. It is a global goal of total elimination of cancer, which has led several countries around the world to set up ambitious eradication programmes. The Swedish Democrats have previously pushed the question that Sweden also needs to take a national initiative in the area of cervical cancer and that the state should thus also ensure that a serious eradication programme can be implemented. The aim must be to actively promote participation in cell screening throughout the country and in each region. If the regions can then also vaccinate more young people against the HPV virus, more lives can be saved and, in the long term, cervical cancer can also be eliminated. According to the Government's vision for future cancer care, presented in 2018, as many cancer cases as possible are to be prevented. Sweden can become free from cervical cancer if the government chooses to take its responsibility on this important issue. Vaccination and screening with gynaecological cell testing can be identified as crucial measures. We can eliminate this form of cancer, and we must do the same. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that women's health needs more attention, precisely because it is a neglected area. This debate is also important from this point of view. There are major shortcomings in relation to women-related diseases and quality of care. In our view, this deserves much more attention. There should reasonably be no discussion as to whether or not to offer HPV vaccination in connection with the screening of women carrying out their first screening at the age of 23 or 26 years. Therefore, my party has also set aside SEK 150 million to implement a national programme aimed at eliminating cervical cancer, which will also allow room to cover the costs of the regions and thus also create an equal quality of care throughout the country. For every year without a serious eradication programme and without the issue of cervical cancer being taken more seriously, women in cervical cancer who would not have had to suffer. It is not enough to assume that the regions themselves can shoulder responsibility. The National Board of Health and Welfare has long recommended that women who are 30 years of age or older should be tested for human papillomavirus in their gynaecological cell test. However, it is quite clear that more is needed to make a real difference. The Covid-19 pandemic has also meant that care that is not considered urgent will be postponed to the future, which in turn has created a huge health debt. The proposal for a reinforced cervical cancer screening can therefore also be a significant contribution to relieving the health care system in the future. In this connection, we are also in favour of this committee initiative, which is about implementing a concrete action plan aimed at eradicating cervical cancer in Sweden. We do so because we believe that this is a crucial step in protecting women from future cervical cancer. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-979	Madam President, I would like It is an incredibly important area we are discussing today, namely cervical cancer. Looking at the larger area of cancer diseases, Sweden is the best country to live in. We have outstanding results in terms of five years of survival and, above all, we offer healthcare that is accessible to all. But there are major shortcomings in cancer care in Sweden; we are all aware of that. I would like to point out, for example, the issue of prevention, which is part of what we are discussing today. Another part is that it is extremely important to discover the cancer early, and there we could do a lot more. A third area is rehabilitation, where there are still major deficiencies in Swedish cancer care. There are two cancer diagnoses that I might find particularly exciting, because you have the opportunity to touch on the eradication of the disease. Both really stem from viral diseases. The first is hepatitis C, which is a very nasty disease. It causes cirrhosis of the liver and thus poses a very high risk of developing primary liver cancer. For a number of years now, there has been a drug that actually removes hepatitis C infection, which is a fantastic medical breakthrough. It may not completely eradicate liver cancer, but it will drastically reduce the risk of developing it. Even when this medicine came we had a discussion in Sweden about the pace at which we could introduce it, that it was associated with large costs and so on. Today, however, we have a situation in which most people are offered the medicine when it is discovered that they have the disease, and thus the virus will be able to be virtually eradicated in Sweden. In the long term, this reduces the risk of people developing this type of cancer drastically. The second area, which is even more exciting, is human papillomavirus. The discovery that this virus is the reason why both women and men develop cancers rendered in the Nobel Prize 2008. The most common is that women get cervical cancer, but even men can get cancer from this virus. It has been said here in the speaker's chair that we have the opportunity to eradicate cervical cancer within a few years, but it will not be quite that positive. However, what we can do, Madam President, is to eradicate the human papilloma virus within a number of years by being active in vaccinating. Of course we will. However, I think it is important to point out that the possibility of reducing mortality and the incidence of cervical cancer rests on two legs. It is very much about vaccination today, and I would actually say that vaccination is perhaps the easiest. The other leg is screening. Make sure women go to their screenings! That is where I would say that the really big challenge lies, because we find it so difficult to reach the socio-economically vulnerable groups in particular. In the Stockholm region, 43% of women do not have their cervical cancer screening – 43%! In Västra Götaland it is much better; there it is only 23 percent. Nevertheless, many are missing. Regardless of vaccination or not, we have a large number of women who are already infected with this virus and will therefore risk developing cervical cancer for a long time to come. That is why it is absolutely crucial that we make the screening programmes work. The screening survey was done free of charge a number of years ago, because it was thought that that was where the obstacle was. But that is not the case, but the obstacle is that you do not reach the vulnerable groups. It may be that people have a low level of education, that they do not master the Swedish language and so on, but these groups are also very vulnerable with regard to this particular disease. I believe that targeted action is needed towards these groups, but there is also a need to use innovations in this area. There have actually been opportunities to do self-tests at home that are then sent in. With regard to these two bones in the work to eradicate cervical cancer, I would say that the easiest step to take is the vaccination programmes – and there I think we will be in the rather near future – but what will be a tough challenge is to make the screening work. With those words, Madam President, I too would like to support the committee's proposal. Once again, I think it is a strength that we can demonstrate a consensus on the part of the Committee on Social Affairs – although I see a certain challenge in how we begin to deal with various diagnoses through announcements from the Swedish Parliament. We need to find more systematic ways of working on this.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-989	Madam President, I would like It is amazing that we have such a united committee, I have to say. It's fun to work in a committee that's so proactive. Sweden is a fantastic country to live in when it comes to cancer. We have incredibly good care and treatment, and we have absolutely amazing research. I think that should be raised to the skies. We also have unique opportunities to eradicate cervical cancer, Madam President. For example, we have a national quality register that works. We have an organised screening, although the participation – just like the honourable Member Anders W Jonsson has just said – is very tied to where you live, what class you are in and so on. It is difficult to achieve, and we are looking at this throughout the health field. Whether it's cervical cancer, vaccine or whatever, it's hard to get through. We need to start working more proactively towards areas that are more socio-economically vulnerable. We can see a sharp decrease in cervical cancer through screening. It's amazing. Preventive vaccines are also effective, and the spread is stopped even when vaccinating already infected. All patients with cell changes should be followed up. It's extremely important. I did a conization myself in 1984, when I was, like, 29 years old, and then went on very rigorous follow-up for five years. I made it, and it's precisely because you have good control – that there is good screening and good follow-up. Now, Madam President, the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the regions differently. This has meant that even the effects on cancer care have been different across the country, and I was going to talk a little bit about it. In general, cancer care has been prioritised and worked well for patients seeking treatment. However, we can see that many businesses have reported a reduced number of newly diagnosed cases. Many regions have started self-sampling for HPV, and planning is ongoing in other regions. It is, of course, a good thing that self-tests of this kind are offered during this period. It's important. We have a national cancer strategy, which was developed in the form of a government investigation in 2009 and which forms the basis for the work to develop cancer care in Sweden. It aims at long-term development in key areas such as prevention, early detection of cancer, patient focus and so on. It has also meant developing the regional cancer centres which have meant a great deal for us to move a little more in the country, Madam President. There are six such centres in each cooperation region. We have to move in step if we are to have equal care. According to the committee, Sweden should aim to become one of the first countries in the world to eliminate cervical cancer. This is quite possible, and within the framework of a new updated national cancer strategy, the government will implement a systematic, long-term and national effort in the form of an action plan to eliminate cervical cancer in total within five to seven years – or at least HPV, perhaps it is best to say. It should make it clear that women should be offered vaccination and so on in their first screening, so that all regions are on the move. It's important. Madam President, I would like The survival of cancer, as I said earlier, has increased enormously in all socio-economic groups over the last 20 years, but there is still a large gap between different groups – it has not been affected. If survival had been as high in all groups as in the groups with the most survivors, some 3,000 lives could have been saved. This is about class; it is not about anything else. If you are highly educated, you will get better care and better accommodation. Perhaps you can also speak for yourself in a different way and seek help in a different way. Various studies that have been carried out show very clearly that you get better support and better care. There are also great geographical variations in terms of the medical skills available, and we must pay attention to this. The oncological competence is very unevenly distributed across the country, leading to problems with waiting times and reduced access to care and treatment. Of course, lack of specialists also involves patient safety risks. Skills provision will be a huge challenge for the entire healthcare system in the future, and cancer care is no exception. The development of the regions is moving in the right direction overall, but, as I said, it varies. Equal cancer care means that everyone should have the same conditions to get good care and to survive. It is very good that we have produced this together, Madam President, so of course I am in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1001	Madam President, I would like It is very positive that we are united in the decision to eliminate cervical cancer. This is on two legs. One is the vaccinations. In Sweden we have a high vaccination rate, but we must constantly pay attention to the resistance to vaccination that exists in the world – with a lot of fake news, that is misleading information about the risks of vaccination – so that we can immediately counteract this. The second is screening, which, of course, must reach many more women than it does today. This is a challenge. We are talking about eradicating cervical cancer in five to seven years. That is a good objective, but we should not be disappointed if we do not get to the finish. It is also important that this is supported by the WHO's objective of eliminating this form of cancer and working hard on it between 2020 and 2030. In this context, I would also like to mention the upper age limit for screening. Of course, screening for women can now be carried out with certainty at longer intervals in view of the temporal development of this form of cancer, but you still have to dive again if you are to have as low an age limit as you currently have. We must not lose sight of the fact that this virus is dangerous even for men. It is good that boys are now included in the program, but we also have men of a little more adult age who, when they become infected, are exposed to a rather cruel form of cancer in the mouth, throat, rectum and so on. We must not lose sight of the fact that the virus is also in this group. This is an example of a form of cancer that we highlight in special order. It does not cost much in the state budget to make these efforts, but I think it is important both in the case of cancer and in the case of some other diseases. Around the corner are amazing new opportunities to treat and prevent serious consequences of a disease condition. What, then, do we have in this Parliament for this? After all, budgetary work is part of it – we should have money set aside in the budget to deal with this kind of problem. But I think we should have a more general discussion. What is there around the corner that allows us to dramatically change the state of health of people suffering from different things, and how can we manage this budgetaryly so that money does not put obstacles in the way of rapid action?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1008	Madam President, I would like A little more than a year ago I was at Emilias's funeral. It was a very beautiful early summer day. Emilia wanted us to wear light clothes. She had recently turned 50. Emilia was the mother of four children. She was a woman in the midst of life, filled with joy of life, whose life one day was completely turned upside down. Emilia was diagnosed with cervical cancer. Then followed months and years of treatments, samples, radiation and chemotherapy. The treatment seemed to work at first. You should know – and I think you know about it – that this treatment is really tough and naughty. Emilia didn't give up. She fought. But, as I said, the cancer wanted to be different. Mortal cancer primarily affects the young woman, or the woman in the middle of life. It is a slayer who snatches mothers from children, daughters from parents and life mates from partners. It destroys and destroys life dreams. Madam President, I would like We are supposed to have a cherished language in this House, but when it comes to cancer, especially cervical cancer, I have only one thing to say. I choose to spell out what the Young Cancer Association has on its bracelets: F-u-c-k cancer. Eradicating cervical cancer is precisely that – with a large F, I would add. Today, a united committee supports an announcement to implement, within the framework of a new and updated national cancer strategy, a systematic and long-term national effort to eliminate cervical cancer in Sweden in total within five to seven years, as has been said earlier. As I said, this strategy is based on vaccination; it is very important that we maintain the high level of vaccination among both boys and girls. It is also based on screening and there is much more to be done to achieve a better coverage or degree of screening. I may well find it a little strange that a pandemic would be needed for us to develop self-tests, for example; this should have been done a very long time ago. The World Health Organisation, WHO, adopted a global strategy in August 2020 to accelerate the total elimination of cervical cancer. With this initiative, Madam President, Sweden is taking up the challenge. In the committee's view, Sweden should aim to become one of the first countries to eliminate cervical cancer. The signal should also be clear to the various regions of the country to start work on this right now, as has been mentioned by speakers before me. There's no need to wait. For you, Emilia, and for all the other victims of cervical cancer, I wish this had been possible to carry out much earlier. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1019	Madam President, I would like The aim of excise duties is to achieve public health, environmental or transport policy objectives rather than to generate revenue for the state. Under the government Löfven, excise duties have been given a completely new purpose. They have become the bearer of a symbolic policy which, at best, is ineffective and, at worst, directly harmful. If the President allows a debauchery, you can draw parallels to the literary and artistic current of symbolism. Its representatives turned against the science belief, social commitment and realistic scientific reproduction of naturalism and instead wanted to devote themselves to inner life and distance themselves from society and its problems. We can well say that symbolism is more appropriate in art than in politics. One telling example is the introduction of the plastic bag tax, which has made a regular plastic bag in the grocery store cost 6 – 7 crowns. Government representatives boast that sales of plastic bags have fallen. However, they have not noted that people instead buy plastic bags on rolls, which are intended for waste and which are usually not environmentally friendly and imported from China, among others. As an additional negative effect of this tax, the largest manufacturer of environmentally friendly plastic bags in Sweden had to release 25 percent of its personnel. The worst thing about plastic bag tax is that it makes no difference whether the bag is made of fossil-free, completely renewable and biodegradable material or fossil plastic. Everything should be taxed. The Helsingborg entrepreneur and inventor Åke Rosén, who has developed the innovative material biodolomer, has bitterly experienced this. His company could have hired 30 to 40 more people if the government had focused on replacing fossil-based plastics. Now there is a great risk that Åke will take his company abroad. There is also a hygiene aspect that is counteracted by the plastic bag tax that is important not least in pandemic times. It will easily be a populist discussion where plastic stands for the bad without taking into account that plastics can be both environmentally friendly and renewable as well as significantly prolong the sustainability of food. That's not unimportant given that one of the biggest wastes is food waste. No financial success was the plastic bag either. Of the estimated revenues of more than SEK 2.1 billion to the Treasury in 2020, only around SEK 179 million, i.e. less than 10 per cent. The government has also announced tax on takeaway food or rather on disposable packaging for it. The introduction of an extra tax on an industry that is struggling for its survival and that is going through the most difficult times ever is both immoral and indefensible. Madam President, I would like Another symbolic tax is the chemical tax on electronics and white goods, which taxes the goods whether or not they contain harmful substances. The government has also announced a chemical tax on clothing and shoes. We Moderates say no to that treasure. Our view is that this tax will be the death penalty for Swedish trade or rather for what is left of it after the pandemic and the government's handling of the conversion aid. Madam President, I would like It should have been clear to the government that excise duties, which account for about 7% of government revenue, cannot be increased in any way. I have already touched on the introduction of new creative excise duties, but it is worth repeating that it is doubtful whether the green tax exchange promised by the January parties through excise duties is feasible. On the one hand, excise duties correspond only to one tenth of the tax on labour, an imbalance which in itself makes the intended tax shift very difficult to carry out, and on the other hand the stated aim of excise duties is to steer production and consumption away from those with significant environmental impacts into environmentally friendly alternatives. When this objective is achieved, the fiscal base is eroded, and funding needs to be solved in another way – with the current government certainly with some new, clever and ill-considered tax. The best and, indeed, the only way to secure sustainable funding for the public sector is to ensure that more people get into work. And for that we need viable companies and favourable conditions so that they can compete in an international market. Transport and mobility are therefore extremely important. In our elongated country, the ability to transport goods and the opportunity for people to get to work is crucial. The political decisions taken by the government are destroying the conditions for this. One such decision was the introduction of air tax; others are the constant penalty taxes on motorism. With the airline tax, you tax the journey and not the emissions it causes. Thus, the airline tax does not create any incentive to develop new fuels. Especially now that the airline industry is down on the bill because of the Corona crisis, the abolition of this harmful tax seems all the more urgent. The flight is needed, and I hope that the detractors of the flight have taken on board the data that during the pandemic, when the flight is basically stationary, emissions have been reduced by only 6%, including less driving and less consumption. In other words, it is not aviation that is the climate villain. Madam President, I would like The importance of the car for development and growth cannot be stressed enough, not least in a country like Sweden with very large distances. Through decades, it has enabled people to get to work efficiently and smoothly and to settle wherever they want. Why does the government want to reduce the quality of life of those living in rural areas? In order for Sweden to stay together and the Swedish economy to cope with the recovery after the Corona crisis, the criminal taxation of travel and distance cannot continue along the path that the government has taken. Taxes on transport, vehicles and fuels shall be proportionate and appropriate. Some taxes are needed as instruments to reduce climate impact, while taxes must not be designed in such a way that they become an excessive burden on people and businesses. Fuel taxes simply need to be reduced. Over-indexation must be abolished and there must also be an active reduction in the tax on fuel by SEK 1 at the pump. Sweden has great ambitions in environmental policy, and we should continue to do so. That is why we need to change failed environmental policies that do not lead to the desired effects and that are not cost-effective. BONUS – the Malus system should therefore be phased out. The cost to households is high, the benefit to the environment is extremely limited and the money disappears abroad. Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations and the specific opinion, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for reservation 7.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1038	Madam President, I would like The collection of excise duty must be carried out in a way that achieves the objective of the tax, i.e. direct consumption and investment in a particular direction, taking into account public health, the environment or other effects that one might wish to achieve. Excise duties are also an important source of revenue for the state, for this is a good bit over SEK 100 billion annually. It is therefore a major and important area that we are debating, and the report deals with the motions that have taken place during the general period of exercise. The Swedish Democrats have put forward a wide range of proposals, and we have ten reservations in the report. Of course, I support them, but I only support reservation number 8. The overall assessment of the policies pursued in the area of excise duty is that it hits the business sector and especially the transport sector with weight and sharpness. In particular, small businesses are affected by the charges rolled out from the January agreement. Nor does there seem to be any self-criticism on the part of the government when we look at this tax hysteria that is being chiseled out in a period when a strong economic recovery must be seen as a priority. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats argue, contrary to the government, that travel deductions and taxes on travel and transport should be designed so that people and companies can live and work throughout Sweden, not least in rural areas. Reliable and cost-effective transport is essential to strengthen the competitiveness and growth of companies throughout the country. Without efficient transport at reasonable cost, companies cannot deliver goods to their customers based on demand, not obtain components from suppliers and only recruit employees and other skills from the immediate vicinity. The Swedish Democrats believe that the government has turned into a dead end. But it doesn't stop there. The government has also discussed the possibility of introducing tax at a distance, although such a system does not tax actual emissions but is designed to tax distances regardless of technological emission control achievements. Incentives to reduce the environmental impact of emissions are therefore completely lacking. In a surface large country such as Sweden with long distances and sparse railway infrastructure, road transport by passenger car, bus and truck is still the only realistic means of transport for many of the country's businesses and residents. Therefore, these taxes are perceived as being aimed at limiting the freedom of rural people and the possibility of active life. The tax at a distance is a tax paid, in particular, by the hauliers for each kilometre worked. The tax means the coup for many Swedish hauliers who in some cases can get a doubling of the tax burden. Regardless of the name of the new tax, the consequences are negative and entail increased costs for both citizens and businesses. Furthermore, the government's introduction of the air tax has already had negative effects on aviation, and routes have been closed down. The costs of companies employing consultants or sending employees to training courses abroad, for example, increase sharply when travelling times in some cases multiply. The Swedish Democrats are therefore opposed to this hysteria of taxes on transport and travel. Madam President, I would like As if taxes on transport, travel and distance were not enough, the government has also introduced the so-called bonus – the Malus system. The aim is to tax cars with higher carbon dioxide emissions and provide tax relief and bonuses for pure electric cars and hydrogen cars that emit little or no carbon dioxide. But for many ordinary people and businesses around the country there are no good economic alternatives to today's vehicles. This will only mean the Malus section of the model, i.e. the criminal taxation of these vehicle owners. The consequence of this has been a significant reduction in new car sales and fewer new, safe and more environmentally friendly cars rolling on Swedish roads. The system also does not take into account high global CO2 emissions in battery production, for example. Therefore, the bonus – the malus model is doubtful. The idea of bonus – the Malus system should be that the consumer should have a real chance to switch to an environmentally better alternative. But bonus – malus has the opposite effect when older vehicles are kept longer in traffic. Therefore, in order to achieve real environmental objectives, the entire bonus – the Malus system needs to be replaced by other methods. Motorhomes and trucks are particularly affected by bonuses – the Malus system as the new value forms the basis for taxation and has led to a significant increase in vehicle tax on motor homes and small light trucks, for example. In addition, in the new car market, approximately 95% of motor homes are affected by the new taxation. The impact will be considerable for importers, retailers and repairers when the market literally disappears. It hits Swedish jobs hard. With too much taxation on so-called locally produced holiday forms, which the motorhome actually is, there is a risk of diverting travel to air travel, and the environmental impact risks being the opposite. Reviewing the bonus – the Malus system on motorhomes gives more people the opportunity to vacation climate smart, regardless of whether they own or rent the vehicle. The system for taxing certain vehicles and providing favourable tax conditions for other vehicles is a wrong system. It is an unfair tax system that most of all benefits people with higher income in cities, while it hits not least families with children with lower income in sparsely populated areas. In principle, it is also wrong to tax vehicles when the vehicles themselves do not necessarily have a negative impact on the environment. Madam President, I would like A regular wage earner with reduced travel expenses takes his fined car that runs on a fuel with large tax charges, passes a congestion tax station and gets scanned by the camera on its way to the shopping area to buy goods. Now the government also wants to levy taxes on the electronics and chemicals contained in these goods, which in turn have already received a higher retail price as a result of the additional road taxes. The Swedish Democrats believe that fundamental to economic instruments is that they must be designed in such a way that they bring a clear environmental benefit and not unduly hit Swedish companies or Swedish consumers. The tax on consumer electronics is an example of a chemical tax that is difficult to justify from an environmental perspective. In particular, it acts as a penalty tax on consumer electronics without helping to reduce the incidence of dangerous chemicals. This chemicals tax has raised prices, and consumers now turn to cheaper operators from abroad, which puts Swedish competitiveness at a disadvantage without having the desired effect on the environment. Sweden is far too small to be able to influence on its own the use of various chemicals by global electronics giants for example fire safety. A new strategy is needed on how to work against potentially harmful chemicals. Studies show that the chemical tax has hit Swedish trade hard. As a result of the chemicals tax, every ten purchases have been moved from Swedish stores to foreign websites. The chemical tax is thus harmful to industry and leads to lower revenues and weaker conditions for industrial development and retailing in Sweden. Experts also argue that the chemical tax does not fulfil its purpose because it does not in practice reduce the use of hazardous chemicals in the products but is merely a penalty tax, whereupon the purchases are made via foreign operators and platforms. The adaptation of companies to the new situation has led them to move parts of their operations away from Sweden, which leads to fewer Swedish jobs and, by extension, less resources for the public sector. In several areas, the government has introduced excise duties on transport and travel, but also plastic goods and so on, which have had a negative effect on the Swedish economy. Excise duties have often been justified by environmental policy reasons but have in practice become mainly fiscal taxes used to finance costs arising from failed policies in other critical areas of society. That is why we believe that there should be a review of excise duty as a whole.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1065	Madam President, I would like Taxes are really something that affects all of us. They affect all people, all municipalities and all businesses. Tax is one of the ultimate ways in which the state governs people's lives. Therefore, taxes must be effective economic instruments but also promote a legitimate and fair tax system. We need to place greater emphasis on taxes that correct problems and do not distort the economy. This applies, in particular, to excise duties, such as the report we are discussing today. With excise duties in particular, we can control people's consumption and production. That is, of course, the point of excise duties: an effective way of directing people to make different choices. But you also have to make sure that you're heading for something that's good or better. Otherwise, it's no use. We are taxing what we do not want in society, such as environmentally hazardous emissions. But in the second wave we have to lower taxes on what we want more of, for example, work and hours worked, to get Sweden on its feet. Madam President, I would like Any new tax and any change in a tax must be well justified, and its effects must be clear to individuals, businesses and society. It must be clear that the positive effects outweigh the negative ones, something that, for example, the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the government for on and off, including in terms of the design of government measures for more environmental cars over the years. Many people think of alcohol taxes or tobacco taxes when you talk about excise duties. Fewer may think of the potential for governance in this area, for example in the environment and climate. Road traffic is responsible for most of our emissions. There is no doubt that emissions from traffic must be significantly reduced. Sustainable fuels are actually produced, such as various forms of biofuels. It is a key to achieving our objectives, and here the tax system must be designed to steer so that the right alternatives are rewarded. Madam President, I would like As far as road traffic is concerned, according to the Center Party, the solution is not to tax distances, as previous speakers have pointed out, as happened with the road-wear tax on which the previous government spent an incredible amount of resources. You cannot tax distances only in a country like Sweden. You cannot punish people and businesses who live and work in the country, because there are no railway tracks to replace road transport. Road wear and emissions from traffic are not just about CO2 emissions, which is what is taxed when you think. It's about a lot more. What is the environmental impact of the vehicle's driving throughout the traffic system? The model of excise duty on emissions must take into account the city and country, the time of day and the roads you drive. Are there alternatives to vehicle transport? Technology on the vehicle, weight, axles, drafts and lots of things – all of this and more need to be included in a review on tax shifting in the transport sector, according to the Center Party. Taxes and charges in the transport sector need to be reviewed in a broad review to enable the transition to sustainable transport and the possibility of living and operating throughout the country. The starting point of this review should be that the tax system should be differentiated according to the climate benefit and the different geographical conditions prevailing in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Of course, we also want to see more public transport so that we can reduce emissions throughout the country. Many people today take the car but would have liked to have taken the bus, commuter train or tram instead. The energy tax on public transport is an important issue. We want there to be more favourable conditions when public transport goes on electricity, such as boats and buses. In order to minimise our CO2 emissions and safeguard a better environment, the transport sector is gradually changing from using fossil fuels to in many cases using vehicles powered by electricity instead. This transition needs to be encouraged. Swedish public transport is very much involved in this transformation. At present, however, there is no real competitive neutrality between the different modes of public transport. Trains and other rail transport are currently exempt from energy tax, CO2 tax and sulphur duty, whether they are powered by electricity or by diesel. Electricity buses, on the other hand, have to pay energy tax. The fact that this difference exists is incongruent with Sweden's high environmental objectives and puts different modes of transport against each other. Sweden must continue to push forward within the EU in order to continue to free renewable fuels from carbon tax, without the EU interfering in the availability of raw materials and their suitability for biofuel production. The EU has stated that food-based biofuels, for example, are not quite as good as others, but rather to assess efficiency or climate benefits. Madam President, I would like We need more food entrepreneurs in our country. In order for the whole country to grow, we need regulatory simplifications for the food industry and continued investments in Sweden as a food country. Small-scale food and beverage production in particular needs better conditions. The EU has therefore opened up the possibility for Member States to apply a lower alcohol tax to beer produced by independent small breweries. All EU Member States, except Sweden and Italy, apply reduced alcohol tax in accordance with the intention of the Directive, as well as Norway. Evaluations from countries applying these reductions show that it has had a positive effect on the domestic beer market in terms of competition, growth and supply. All craft breweries are, as we know, small businesses. The largest brewery has no more than 20 employees, and a large proportion of breweries are located in rural areas. Reduced excise duty on beer can therefore lead to a levelling-off of competitive conditions and to aid for small businesses. The Center Party believes that the government should review the possibility of introducing a differentiated excise duty on beer produced by smaller local breweries. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about one of Sweden's most important basic industries, namely agriculture and forestry. Of course, the representatives of agriculture and forestry also want to contribute to climate change, but this must not be at the expense of a deterioration in the competitive situation in an already under pressured market, which in turn is often due to competitive disadvantages compared with other EU countries. The Center Party wants to work with carrots instead of whips. We have long talked about a green premium – a biofuel bonus of around SEK 2 per litre – to switch the operation of agricultural machinery, but we have not got this through in negotiations with other parties. An investigation is under way, and an investigator is appointed to make proposals on how agriculture can become fossil-free while strengthening competitiveness. We are eagerly awaiting this investigation. It will also make suggestions on how to strengthen our preparedness and self-sufficiency. This should not be an impossibility, and we know that this is necessary in view of the situation we are in right now. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I am only in favour of reservation number 28.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1087	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of the year Oxfam published the report Swedish Climate Equality, which examined the Swedish emissions in relation to income. The report shows an inequality in consumption emissions between income groups. The conclusion is very clear: the more money, the greater the emissions. It was concluded that low- and middle-income earners as a whole have contributed to the reduction of emissions. But the richest 10% have barely contributed to the reduction of emissions. This in itself is both untenable and unfair. Here, at least, the government's crisis policy should have been geared towards imposing demands on climate and environmental measures, as the Left Party demanded early. In addition, crisis policy has far too little been used to make major climate investments. The aviation sector has received vastly more crisis support than the rail sector, precisely when major public investment is required in rail and public transport around the country. These investments are much more necessary for the transition if it is to be done fairly than keeping the aviation sector, for example, under arms. We need to significantly reduce the emissions that arise, not least as a result of transport and consumption in Sweden. And those who emit the most also need to account for the greatest emission reductions. We simply need to use our common resources to redeploy. It is absolutely crucial for what society we want and what future we are facing. Madam President, I would like For 30 years, there have been tax cuts in Sweden that have benefited the richest. It is about as long as the climate threat has been seriously felt. Emissions have continued to grow, and those with the most money contribute most to this development. Is that really how we use resources in society? It is no coincidence that the climate and economic inequality have gone downhill at the same time. It is a question of political decisions. Instead of taking greater responsibility, in the midst of a global pandemic, the government has continued with even more tax cuts. We believe that climate change must have a clear justice perspective. Not only can it be the responsibility of climate policy, but it also needs a progressive shift in economic policy. That is the foundation and essence of achieving climate justice and answering the question of destiny of our time. Increased gaps make it more difficult to tackle the climate crisis. It is not possible to tackle the climate crisis if we do not tackle inequality. The overall task must be to pursue a policy that closes the economic divides. To achieve this, tax cuts for the rich must be set aside so that a greater part of our resources goes to joint public investment. Climate change is a joint project, and then we need to invest in the common – in what is redeployment and in what is needed for a green transition. Then we cannot have the way of life of the richest 10%. They barely contribute to the reduction of emissions at all. On the contrary, it is they who actually have to start paying for this. In conclusion, Madam President, we would have liked to have seen much more progressive environmental and climate taxes that meet the right and the redeployment. Now the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats may have to cover their ears. With regard to aviation, which is still one of the largest emission sectors, we would have liked to have moved on with, for example, the air tax, so that it becomes higher and more progressive. It can be at a certain level when you make your first flight but then rise at the second flight and then rise significantly at the third flight and so on. That's when it hits right – the people who continuously travel and so on. One could also do as in Britain and have a much higher airline tax for business class. The revenue should of course go to the trains and increased public transport and generally reduced emissions. We need to offer alternatives to flights to a greater extent. Then it is mainly the trains that are involved. There are short domestic routes on routes where there is also a train connection. It is totally unreasonable that there should even be flights on these routes. There you need to invest a lot more on the trains. There is a limit to what the climate can do, and we have already exceeded it in the acute situation we are in. Then there is no reason to have private jets that take off and land. It also puts its finger on the rich's way of life that shits down the planet. It is completely incomprehensible when the climate cannot cope with any more. If you look per capita how much emissions from aviation we account for is Sweden's seventh worst in the world. We fly five times more than the average in the world, and then only 11% of the world's population has even been on an airplane. I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 16 by the Left Party.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1102	Madam President, I would like There are many different excise duties in different areas. Anyone who reads through the report we are debating now may have the impression that it is very sprawling. But in common with many of the excise duties that exist or are proposed in various sports is that in one way or another, and for one reason or another, they aim to control our behaviors – drinking less, smoking less, playing less, flying less or buying fewer new phones. In some cases, the purpose is good and a tax is also the right tool for the purpose. Other cases are more doubtful, and it can be questioned whether the purpose is right, whether a tax is the right tool and whether the tax in question is properly designed. It is important that the excise duties that exist fulfil their purpose and do not have unreasonable consequences, otherwise they risk undermining confidence in the entire tax system and, by extension, confidence in the state as such. Madam President, I would like Every year non-profit associations pay about SEK 60 million in advertising tax. For a long time, there has been an announcement from Parliament to the government to abolish advertising tax altogether. We Christian Democrats share that ambition with the other parties. Although this takes a very long time, we welcome the gradual abolition that has taken place in several rounds. The latest decrease was made at the turn of 2019/ 2020, and in this context the accountability limit was also increased. The increase in accountability was a good thing. In particular, it benefited sports associations with low advertising costs, which have now had a reduced administrative burden and reduced advertising tax expenditure. But this work needs to continue. We Christian Democrats believe that it must now be the most priority to completely abolish advertising tax on non-profit associations. It is in association and in non-profit organisations that the basis for democracy is laid. Association life is much more than just a leisure activity. In association, we learn to listen to others, to discuss and to compromise. We also know that community itself is positive for people. More and more people are paying attention to the major problems and costs that involuntary loneliness causes society. I have therefore highlighted in many different debates in this House that civil society's preconditions are an issue that should be discussed in virtually all policy areas. This also applies to fiscal policy. And in the field of taxation, there is much that can be done to make it easier for non-profit associations around Sweden. We Christian Democrats are convinced that the SEK 60 million that associations pay in advertising taxes each year would benefit people if associations were instead allowed to use them for their core business. This will strengthen the Community and interpersonal relations in society. Madam President, I would like Last year, the government and its supporting parties introduced a tax on waste incineration. This was done despite the fact that the importance of the power and district heating sectors for energy supply was highlighted in various contexts. However, the tax introduced places obstacles on this sector. The study carried out prior to the introduction of the tax rejected the idea of a waste incineration tax and concluded that the tax will be fiscal, i.e. it will provide revenue to the State but will not contribute to a better environment or a sustainable climate. Yet the government has justified the tax on the fact that it is an environmental effort. This is outright false marketing, Madam President. If we want to make effective efforts for the climate and the environment, they must be done earlier in the waste chain. Half of household waste is recycled and provides electricity, heat and cooling. In addition, Sweden imports waste from other countries where it would otherwise have gone to environmentally-burdening landfills. The heat production produced by waste incineration corresponds to heat to about 1 million households and has the great advantage that it is reliable all year round. The waste incineration tax is now limiting the investment space in the plants and will eventually lead to lower plants. We Christian Democrats believe that this tax should be abolished. Madam President, I would like I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats on this matter, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 10.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1113	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal of commitment to excise duties. It is quite clear when we stand here and discuss it. There is a commitment both from those who want to raise and from those who want to lower, abolish or change certain taxes. Excise duties are taxes on different individual products or services. Sometimes they're purely fiscal. We have a tax on energy mainly as a fiscal tax. It is one of our oldest excise duties, and it is a good source of funding for the public. We have vehicle tax in the first place for it to finance road maintenance and extension of the road network. Of course, excise duties are also used to control consumption, such as taxes on tobacco and partly taxes on fuel. This is well-known and more talked about, and we have heard it here today too. It sounds a bit like excise duties exist only to control consumption or to make sure that bad things in society are consumed less. But that is simply not the case. There is also another use. We use excise duties to simplify the tax system. This applies, for example, to group life insurance for employees in companies. For the individual and the company, group life insurance is tax-free both when you receive it and when you receive payments from it. However, there is, instead, an excise duty on the premiums paid. Thus excise duties are a tool used for many different things. It can be very good for controlling consumption and production, but we have heard several examples here that sometimes it can also become a little blunt system. At worst, it could also jeopardise the financing of our common benefits. It is far too easy and attractive to say things like taxing what is bad and lowering taxes on all that is good. It's a trap. It may sound nice when you say it, and it is, as I said, of course, that excise duties are good for removing things that we do not want to be consumed so much. But the basis of the tax system is and will always be the financing of public Sweden: the state, the regions and the municipalities. The school, the care and the care are at the heart of it all the time. Robust income is also needed from things that we all want and think are good, whether it is electricity, fuel or salary income. The tax system must always be designed responsibly and in a balance between fairness and simplicity. This applies, in particular, to excise duties. Today we have heard examples of arguments both for simplifying the systems and for complicating them. Examples of allegedly blunt taxes have been mentioned. The airline tax is said to have no effect at all. I personally believe that it does. But we also have in the case's actions motions from both sides of the block limit that want electricity tax to become more flexible and control consumption hour by hour. They want the tax to go up a little to motivate people to consume less when a lot of electricity is needed in society. This may seem fair at first sight. But what happens to those who need to consume and cannot do anything about it, such as when it is very cold and you need to warm the house? Justice can take different forms. I personally do not think this would be a very good solution. We need to keep these systems under constant review, but we do not need to have a lot of complex systems that affect people's consumption in a way that they cannot handle. This would apply, for example, to a tax on electrical energy that is needed to heat the home. But it's not about a flight tax. You can choose not to in most cases. Those who can't do it must try to deal with it in a different way. Madam President, I would like I will not advocate any specific proposals here today. However, since we are only debating motions from the general period of exercise, I would urge that all motions be rejected and that the committee's proposals be accepted.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1122	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Patrik Lundqvist said that excise duties exist to reduce unwanted behaviour. In view of the government's anti-billy policy, with bonuses – malus, constantly increasing taxes on fuel, the recently received bill for increased benefit value for business cars and so on, I wonder: Exactly what behaviour do the Social Democrats want to reduce? We know that all these taxes hit people who live in rural areas and have great distances. What behavior do you want to reduce? Do you want people not to settle in rural areas where there is no public transport? People who live further away from their workplace must still be able to get there – do they want to reduce people's opportunities to work? Or do you want people not to meet their relatives? I would like answers to these questions.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1124	Madam President, I would like It sounds like Boriana listened to some parts of my speech but certainly not all of them. It is certainly not that this is just to control people's behavior. We have a bonus – Malus system to steer new car sales towards more environmentally friendly and modern cars. We have a proposal to change the preferential taxation of cars – not because it has anything to do with changing behaviour at all, but because there is a fairness between buying your own car and having it as a benefit through your employer. I do not think that is very unreasonable. But it has nothing to do with controlling someone's behavior. Boriana Åberg makes it sound like it has to do with punishing people in the countryside, or somewhere else for that matter. It's not that simple.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1127	Madam President, I would like BONUS – the malus system has been sawed by both the Konjunkturinstitutet and the National Audit Office, among other things because the money goes to Norway. During 2019, 400 million of Swedish taxpayers' money went to finance Norway's climate transition. I wonder if Patrik Lundqvist thinks that is reasonable. Bonus – the Malus system beats with surgical precision against entrepreneurs who depend on their car. They cannot put their tools or other equipment in a car that is not damaged by the new bonus – the Malus system. It also hits people with disabilities. Nor can they use the cars that are eligible for bonuses. This means that the car support that a disabled person can be eaten up by the increase as a bonus – the malus system generates. Bonus – Malus also hits the motorhomes. They are not used more than during holidays or weekend trips. But they are taxed as if they were used daily as basically trucks. I wonder: how does Patrik Lundqvist view this? Is it not a way to prevent people from travelling, to prevent people with disabilities from moving and to prevent entrepreneurs from working?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1132	Madam President, I would like The short simple answer is: No, it really is not a way to prevent people from working. It is unfortunate that part of the money in the system to reward environmentally friendly cars goes to Norway, Denmark or other countries. It was also part of the reasoning in this regard. What level should we go to? What is the risk of the money going to other countries? We landed here where we are now. Motorhomes are very exciting. We introduced a system to make it easier to set off and on motorhomes just to avoid the problem that Boriana is talking about that they are not being driven all year. But it is also that there is very small money in the total for a new motorhome. It'll be almost a little ridiculous, let me say, to be tangled with that little money for what's really a luxury ride. Nor is it that it costs a bit from the beginning. The share of the cost of a camper is very small when it comes to the part that is now affected by the bonus – the malus system. It is a strong group of voters that we are talking about. I understand that. But I'm not going to be tangled about the chandeliers for those who can afford to buy a brand new camper. On the other hand, when it comes to those who need a specially adapted car, I think we have a major problem. There we need to help and make sure that it works for everyone and does not become too big a problem. This will be transitory for everyone. Over time, the systems will certainly not be needed. I think we'll be there in just a few years.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1138	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a 120-page report. This shows that the subject is a source of great commitment. It has given rise to 100 motions and 35 reservations. It is about excise duties. There can be taxes on tobacco, alcohol, fuel, carbon dioxide, waste, chemicals, energy and more. I'm not going to go into all these parts. I intend to focus on environmental issues. I am very grateful for what Mr Haddou mentioned. This concerns the link that Oxfam has shown between capital and environmental degradation. I wish we could stop with exceptions and cream for the big industries and big companies that are opposed to our environmental objectives. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that the environment is not just about climate change. We in Parliament have adopted 16 different environmental objectives. Biodiversity and rich plant and animal life are also one of these. Those objectives cannot be set against each other. When you talk about nature, it is what we recognise from an anthropocentric perspective as natural resources and that we want to drill, break up, devastate and trawl most often free of charge, subsidised. Of course, there is no doubt that it contributes significantly to environmental degradation and also to the disappearance of species. Madam President, I would like This is not an opinion so far, but just the facts. The question is what we politicians want to do with these facts, this knowledge, to find ways forward. I think we in this House can agree that we want a functioning market economy. But we can also be reasonably united that we only have one planet. It is on that planet that our economy must be accommodated. We also know that yesterday was Earth Overshoot Day. For Sweden, we live as if we had four planets. Something's not right here. Stopping subsidising fossil industries should be something we can agree on in this House. To start taxing what is taken further from achieving our environmental objectives should not be controversial either. That is when we, as politicians in this House, can assume our responsibilities with regard to both the market economy and the only great ecosystem that we have. Madam President, I would like I would like to say that it is the political laxity and cowardice that maintain tax rebates for the biggest emitters while the Swedish citizen pays in full. It pays 59 times more than one electricity industry in Sweden. At the same time, we know that it is the 100 largest companies in the world that account for 70% of all emissions. Globally fossil fuels are subsidised by SEK 3 000 - SEK 6 000 billion annually. Renewables receive far less than half of these subsidies. I believe that, instead of being in a race to the bottom, Sweden should take the lead on the road to a green and fair transition. I believe that we should and can increase excise duties considerably more than we have chosen to do. Fortunately, a green tax exchange remains during this term of office of at least SEK 15 billion. Madam President, I would like We have already made improvements. We have removed subsidies for mining diesel, and the combined heat and power plants are now fully taxed. When it became clear, the decision was made to decommission Värtaverket and shut down Sweden's last coal power plant. We have also redistributed preferential taxation for cars and removed subsidies for companies that use oil as heating but are not part of the EU emissions trading scheme. But that said, we have a long way to go. Madam President, I would like An interesting thing that I noticed when I read through the movements that have come in is the increased support for fees and dividends. It is something I myself have exercised about, but I note that representatives of the Liberals and the Social Democrats have also done the same. It's about a model that has taken inspiration from Canada and is sometimes called the Canada model. It is that the tax on fossil fuels is increased but that there is then a refund to all citizens. In my motion, the proposal is that there should be a fairer return which also reflects and takes into account rural and sparsely populated areas, where car transport cannot be excluded in the same way as can be done in cities. In summary, this means that those who live very fossil intensively go net minus, while those who live very environmentally friendly go net plus. This is a reform that would be effective and at the same time fair and steer away from fossil-intensive lifestyles. I hope that it can arouse commitment and curiosity also in the Committee on Taxation. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1153	Madam President, I would like Sweden has very serious problems. One of these is about how crime and organised crime become increasingly part of the everyday life of the Swedish people. Despite a very serious development, the government has its arms crossed. The problems are many and large. And there is no miracle medicine, but in a number of areas we have to make changes that make it more difficult to live a criminal life-style and to exploit the system. Two things that are important to put right and which bear on the proposal that we are now going to debate relate to the legal framework for population records and coordination numbers. The number of people living in Sweden without permission today is unknown. The Swedish Tax Agency estimates that about 200 000 people are written at incorrect addresses in Sweden. No one knows exactly how extensive the problem is. A census that the state does not have control of is a huge expense for taxpayers and makes it difficult to help those who need the support of society most. The cheating of census data is a decisive factor in the activities of organised crime. By entering false census data, criminals can hide their identity. Claiming someone else's registered address is serious in itself. When the state also does not know who lives where, it becomes easier for criminals to hide from justice and thus continue their destructive activities. Criminals today use false addresses to claim benefits and welfare benefits to which they are not really entitled. Law and order need to be secured; otherwise we risk consolidating comprehensive parallel societies. The deficiencies in Sweden's population records have been known for a long time. The government itself admits that it has not done enough to curb the obvious problems that exist today around the census. However, the government has made it clear that there is no need to carry out a census. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to introduce increased controls. Today there is an obligation for Totalförsvarets recruitment authority, Transportstyrelsen, CSN, Migrationsverket, Kronofogdemyndigheten, Försäkringskassan, Pensionsförsähallitus och kommuner, with the exception of social services, to notify the Swedish Tax Agency when there is reason to assume that a person's address is not registered in the population register. Notification shall also be given as soon as there is reason to believe that the address registered in the population register is incorrect or incomplete. The scope of Section 2 of the Population Accounts Regulation should be extended so that all authorities and municipalities in Sweden are subject to an extended obligation to inform the Swedish Tax Agency as soon as there is reason to assume that the address a person has not been registered in the population register or if there is reason to assume that information registered in the population register is incorrect or incomplete. According to the Swedish Tax Agency, contacts with other authorities have produced good results in the form of corrected censuses. There is therefore reason to believe that an increased obligation for authorities to notify the Swedish Tax Agency about errors in public records may lead to a better quality register of population records. It should be examined whether the Swedish Tax Agency's direct access to other authorities' databases should be extended. A number of data from the tax database are necessary in order to enable the civil registration activities to make correct decisions in matters relating to population accounts. The Swedish Tax Agency's public accounting activities should therefore be granted direct access to certain specified data in the tax database to the extent that it is permitted to process the data in accordance with the Act on the processing of personal data in the Swedish Tax Agency's public accounting activities as specified in SOU 2017:37. The Moderates also want a census to be carried out. It gives the state the opportunity to fight crime and tools to prevent the emergence of alienation and parallel communities, and it provides important knowledge in the work to combat problems such as overcrowding. A national census is an important start to establishing a safer Sweden and to safeguard the social contract. The second issue that is important to deal with concerns coordination numbers, i.e. provisional personal identity numbers that people who are not registered in Sweden can get. These are people who are here temporarily or who have previously been registered here. Sweden has long lost control of the number of illegal residents. The number is also expected to increase sharply in the coming years. The problems of population records and coordination numbers need to be addressed urgently. In order to overcome the abuse of the coordination number, a requirement should be introduced for all persons who currently hold the coordination number to confirm their identity by personal appearance with the Tax Agency or other appropriate authority. The coordination numbers which are not confirmed within a given period should be closed unless there are specific reasons. A permanent requirement for personal reporting to the Tax Agency or other appropriate authority should apply in order to obtain a coordination number. This already applies to personal identity numbers and has proved necessary also for coordination numbers. Biometric data should be used to make the identification of the holder of the document clearer, i.e. similar requirements applying to passports should also apply to coordination numbers. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for reservation 35.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1168	Madam President, I would like In this case, too, the Swedish Democrats have made a number of proposals. I'm in favour of reservation number 36. The Swedish people are their own actual tax base. At one time a very careful arrangement was applied with those in the country. The church books included clear records of the persons and families living in the respective parishes. But in recent decades we have unfortunately lost control over who is actually within Sweden's borders. According to the Swedish Tax Agency, hundreds of thousands of people in Sweden are wrongly registered. We have seen in recent years that EU migrants exist as beggars in many Swedish cities, something that we have had to get used to in the cityscape. Many of these individuals are most likely not registered according to existing regulations. The problems of ignorance about who is in Sweden have been accentuated as a result of the long-established immigration policy. They culminated in the migration crisis in 2015 and the large wave of migrants that has come to Sweden since then. For several decades, Sweden has had large-scale immigration where, unfortunately, many people in the country are not registered or registered. Others are written in Sweden but are in another country and receive social benefits there even though they have left Sweden. This is both unreasonable and dangerous. Sweden has lost control of the situation. In this way, we have shed both wealth resources and the capacity of the rule of law and have contributed to escalating crime. Therefore, it is very important to conduct a census in Sweden. In addition, migration policy has led to an administrative chaos in the issue of coordination numbers for people who have come to Sweden. Several authorities have had the opportunity to issue coordination numbers. We are critical of the mess created by this procedure and believe that the coordination number should only be available in the event of a personal appearance by the same authority, as suggested by the Swedish Tax Agency, and on presentation of approved identification and registration of biometric data. This is to prevent a person from having multiple coordination numbers or other disorders in the system, such as the disappearance of persons who have received a coordination number from the database or simply have the wrong number– it also occurs. The coordination numbers should have a time limit so that those who are no longer used for the purpose for which they were exhibited can be removed. Cooperation with other authorities and the exchange of information between different departments at the Swedish Tax Agency is a prerequisite for getting the coordination numbers in order. In order to prosecute tax and benefit offences, it is of great importance that the agency can cooperate and collaborate both within the Swedish Tax Agency's own departments and with other authorities. A more intensive exchange of information between them could, in any case, have been more effective in ensuring that the resources paid out by our welfare systems come to those who are entitled to them. It is therefore of the utmost importance that Sweden urgently review the coordination number system and start a nationwide census to update the quality of population records and to ensure who has a legal right to reside in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a democracy. We vote in general elections. However, the point is that citizens of a democracy need access to full information in order to better understand what they are actually voting on. This requires a higher degree of transparency. It is therefore important that taxes and charges are more clearly visible to the citizen. Wage taxes and tax reductions need to be presented. People need to understand what is being funded and how much is being funded. The Swedish judicial system and also tax morality are put to the test in times like these. As trust in society and other people generally diminishes, it becomes more common for people to see a reason to engage in tax evasion. In this context, it makes sense to ask the question: Are the tools we have at our disposal really fully adequate for their purposes? When the legal pathology is largely weakened in many people, it means that not all people can feel an openness with where they live and where they are registered, which creates new kinds of problems. The fact that some people cannot be open with their identity through housing addresses is talking about a society that has turned away from a community built on trust, trust and community and where we finally also start to accept this. In addition, the fact that we are forced to apply a system such as the human rights officer in order to whiten the black labour force, but also as a tool against wage dumping, clearly shows that the morals of the economy and taxation have also fallen significantly. In addition to the introduction of human resources, it has expanded to more sectors and now covers construction, vehicle services, hairdressers, body and beauty care, food, tobacco wholesalers, restaurant and laundry. This expansion testifies to widespread cheating and a tax morality which suggests that national community based on ethics is seriously questioned. In addition, the regulations on staff and cash registers in the hotel and restaurant industry, among other things, are perceived as biased. High fines are levied for accidental minor errors, although it is clearly not cheating in the real sense that has been done. Instead, it affects law-abiding companies. Everyone working at the company's premises shall be registered when they arrive and when they leave. The IRS does on this unannounced check. Many in these different industries feel that the system is burdensome and that it takes a lot of time and resources. While cheating continues in some places, it is an administrative obstacle for many honest entrepreneurs. This is a problem that causes us to have to look at ourselves and look at new solutions. We need to examine the system and its effectiveness in order to prosecute tax evasion and how the administrative burden on entrepreneurs can be kept to a minimum. We need to achieve a sense that the tax system is fair, that we get a better society for the tax we pay – a restored social contract. Madam President, I would like The Swedish economy has its foundation mainly in existing companies but also in the public sector. To protect our industry and our well-being, we constantly need to work to update the multi- and bilateral tax agreements we have with the outside world. Sweden has signed ongoing tax agreements with many countries, and the international tax agreements need to be continuously updated. This is a constant process, which means that if Sweden becomes passive on this issue – and we have also been for a long time – we can end up in a situation where we end up with a fiscal competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other countries. We therefore consider it important to speed up the updating of our tax treaties once again. On the other hand, we have an innovation in new companies, but also new technological conditions for welfare. We therefore need to maintain existing trade with the outside world, while ensuring that the tax system allows the new emerging companies to grow. It is in small and medium-sized enterprises that are allowed to grow that new jobs are created. All in all, we in Sweden need to keep track of our population and transparency in what we pay for taxes. We also need to develop the tax procedure, for Sweden's good and for our competitiveness.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1187	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech with a few words that do not concern today's debate. There are events and days that are more important than others to pay attention to. Today, it is exactly four years ago that the terrible act of terror on Drottninggatan, an evil that robbed five people of life and shook our society in its foundations. I remember it as if it was yesterday. I was not a member of this fine assembly but I happened to be in the Parliament House for a meeting when the sirens began echoing outside the window. It took a while before it became clear that something terrible had happened, an event that is still difficult to grasp. With this introduction, I would like to pay tribute to the memory of Ebba Åkerlind, 11 years old, Lena Wahlberg, 69 years old, Maolys Derekmaeker, 31 years old, Chris Bevington, 41 years old and Marie Kide, 66 years old. May you all rest in peace! Madam President, I would like The question of population records is raised in the debate as if it were just going out and knocking on the door of all the people of the country, the problems would be solved. But it is not quite that simple, of course, despite the claim of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. It is, of course, essential to have a functioning population register. In particular, the report on welfare offences identified a number of risk factors linked to the fact that data recorded in the population register database do not reflect actual circumstances. There is no doubt that there is, and has long been, fraud in the benefit systems in Sweden. Some of this can be traced to cheating with censuses. Similarly, there is cheating with so-called coordination numbers given to individuals who are not registered in Sweden. The question then is whether we can make sure, by means of a census, that these crimes do not happen. Would a person who is wrongly registered open the door? Would the person who lures sickness benefit gladly provide honest answers to a survey? We do not see this as very likely. Nevertheless, this is such an important issue from so many perspectives that I think it needs a deeper analysis. After all, we all want to address the problems of civil records. The debate is not about the objectives, but about the means to be used to achieve them. If there is to be a knock on the door, knocking on every door in the country is virtually an impossible task. It is also not possible under current legislation to demand to get in and see who is in the dwelling in order to carry out a census. Today it is also not illegal to be homeless in Sweden. The National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that approximately 33 000 individuals are homeless. The Swedish Tax Agency has previously carried out surveys showing that up to 90 000 students are wrongly registered. It is also possible to imagine that a person who lives illegally in a dwelling may be outside the dwelling just when the folk counter knocks on the door. Much could perhaps be done with new legislation if, for example, one is prepared to lower the privacy requirements for the individual citizen, for example, that authorities without suspicion of crime can enter your home. We're not prepared to do that. Nor are we prepared to go to political theatre. Not everything in the census is about problems with coordination numbers or welfare crimes. It is easy for this to be missed in the debate. I would like to highlight two concrete examples of things that need to be addressed urgently. The first concerns how to facilitate the registration of children at two addresses. To ensure transparency, government mail and messages from, for example, preschool and school should always be sent to both guardians if they do not share a residential address. Today, such mail is only sent to the child's residence parent, i.e. the address where the child is registered, even if both parents are guardians. It is not reasonable for a guardian to be dependent on the other guardian providing information. The provision of government posts, health, preschool and school posts and more to both guardians can also promote better dialogue and cooperation between parents around the child. The second is illegal censuses at another person's address. For many years we have been able to read articles in newspapers about people who discover that there are completely unknown people registered at their own address. We do not know how common it is for people without permission to sign up for an address other than the one in which they live without the permission of the property owner or tenant. Regardless of the extent of this crime, it is in any case common enough for the Swedish Tax Agency to have information about such matters under the tab and answers to frequently asked questions on its website. Regardless of the reason for the error, it creates insecurity if someone else is registered at their own address. It can also have financial consequences, especially if the person who is illegally registered is hunted by the Swedish Enforcement Authority. From the individual's perspective, it does little to start a process afterwards in order to remove the wrong person from your address. The risk is that there have already been consequences, while it can of course be a tumultuous and stressful process to go through. The measures that have been taken, i.e. to use the Swedish Tax Agency's e-service or to ensure that you as a tenant receive a letter via My Government Post, is to transfer a very large responsibility to the individual. Madam President, I would like Today's debate concerns a number of issues in different areas, issues that concern both individuals and companies. For small businesses, especially in the restaurant sector, the tourism industry and agricultural businesses, the system of human resources workers has become increasingly problematic. It is a system that gradually evolved towards something I think few want to see: a kind of self-playing piano that in its best parts is without rhyme and reason. When the system was introduced, it was self-evident. It was in order to curb cheating in industries that were specifically identified and where it was known that, among other things, there was tax evasion. In the construction industry, for example, there is a trafficking in human beings that needs to be mapped. In this case, the human resources gypsies are an effective tool for employers and trade unions to keep track of who is on the construction site and whether they are trained, have the right protective equipment and receive the salary to which they are entitled. Step by step, however, the additions have made the effects almost absurd. From 2018, all persons living under the same roof where there is a business activity must register if they contribute in any way to the business. If a company has failed to enter someone in the personnel league, it will be obliged to pay a control fee to the Swedish Tax Agency. The fact that an owner of a business and his family are subject to the requirement to sign up in a staff register shows that the law does not understand how a small family business operates, where you live and work in the company 24 hours a day. When the Tax Agency exercises its random supervision, the authority will in principle check whether it has asked its eight-year-old son or daughter for help in throwing away the kitchen sweeps. In the case of a missing note of this in the personnel league, the small business owner risks a fine of SEK 12 500. That's absurd. The system has already been evaluated on several occasions, and now it is time for change. Madam President, I would like When we talk about tax-related issues, it is often very clear that the small entrepreneur is being squeezed. The law is equal for everyone, but it also fits part of the challenges for the small entrepreneur. Not having large tax departments or large human resources that can engage in different types of administration poses a problem for the small business owner. One example is the reimbursement of costs in tax cases. The actual cost of proceedings in tax cases is a factor that not least small companies need to consider when, for example, they want to appeal a decision. Surveys indicate that full compensation is extremely rare as well as that the amount claimed is reimbursed when the individual has gained a hearing for an appeal. An entrepreneur cannot be regarded as being equal to the Tax Agency. The individual entrepreneur should not have to waive an appeal because a cost estimate shows that it is ultimately not worth the process. We therefore need to review the compensation for procedural costs in tax cases. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse the Centre Party's reservation 31 concerning the registration of children at two addresses.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1209	I would like to remind the honourable Member that what is being said from the speaker's seat should apply to the matter under discussion. No matter how heartwarming it may be, other things must not be uttered.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1210	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Alireza Akhondi. I did not intend to enter into debate, but since he so clearly addressed the Moderates, I felt obliged to do so. The population register system is based on people being honest, cooperating voluntarily with the authorities and being easy to control. But the use of false identities is very extensive. This is because the legislation has not been in line with developments. The system is very easy to manipulate, which costs taxpayers billions. The widespread migration and total lack of control of who enters the country has led to no-one knowing how many people are staying illegally in the country. The tragic event that Alireza Akhondi referred to in her speech has been made possible by this very thing, that is to say, allowing people who do not have the right to be in Sweden to be here under false identity.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1214	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for the question! We share the problem description in part. Of course, there are shortcomings in the population register today. I explained this in some parts of my speech. But the proposals for solutions, as put forward by the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, are practically impracticable. For me and the Center Party, it is important that the proposals we put forward can be properly implemented so that we can achieve the objectives on which we agree together. It is obvious to me and the Center Party that people should not be able to misbook themselves. However, this is not addressed by a census of all the problems I outlined in my speech.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1216	Madam President, I would like I suspect that Alireza Akhondi has not grasped the Moderates' proposal on how a census will be carried out. Of course, you should not go knocking on doors everywhere, but focus on areas where there is a risk. And there are plenty of such areas. Most citizens will be able to verify their identity in a digital way. There can of course be privacy problems if you knock on someone's door and want to go in and check. By the way, it is a request from the Swedish Tax Agency to be able to do so. This requires a change of law, to which I am positive. But when you think of billions of taxpayers' money being wasted on contributions to people who do not even have the right to be in the country, that is justified. According to the Delegation for correct payments from welfare systems, 300 billion have been wrongly paid to people who are not entitled to these. We can only recall the famous case of Iraq's Minister of Defence, who was registered here in Sweden with his children. He received child benefit, sickness benefit and multi-child allowance; I don't remember everything. It was so extensive and so offensive. He's not alone. There are thousands of people who abuse the system. This is also a security risk. We need to know who's in the country.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1220	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg made a lot of different claims. I don't really understand what evidence there is for them. That there are people who are wrongly registered, we agree. There is evidence, as the IRS said. However, the fact that such large-scale crime is linked to incorrect civil records is not true. I do not know if there was a linguistic error with regard to the 300 billion. ( BORIAN Åberg: No, it was not. ) Of course, there are wrong payments from our transfer systems, but we are not talking about such levels at all. I want to be clear about that. In addition, there is no legislation that makes it possible, for example, for the Swedish Tax Agency to go in with people, which Boriana Åberg also says. There are also a lot of other aspects of integrity and equivalence before the law that Boriana obviously does not want to know by the debate post to judge. For the Center Party, it is important to point out that we do not intend to devote time to political theatre. If we make proposals, they must be able to be implemented.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1225	Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight two specific points from this report. The first concerns the Population Accounts Act. There, the Left Party has put forward proposals for a committee initiative to resolve the consequences of the legislation and how wrong it has struck. The government's aim of amending the Population Accounts Act was to better tackle organised crime, the trade in black contracts and people who cheat with subsidies. But now that the prosecutions have been reviewed, the results show that it is primarily people whose purpose has not been to exploit the systems who have been prosecuted and convicted. About half of the cases examined concern people who are homeless. Only a small fraction of the charges are related to subsidy fraud; the remaining cases are linked to threat to person, separation, divorce and so on. I hope that the committee will later be able to come together and correct these errors so that no more innocent people are affected in this way. We have every reason to come back to this issue with the government proposal but also with the committee initiative. The second point in this report that I would like to highlight concerns reservation 6, which I call for. This concerns the Left Party's motion on tax evasion and a series of measures in this area. Firstly, Madam President, Sweden needs a tax haven inquiry aimed at stopping the export of money to tax havens. Here, too, the EU's blacklist against tax havens needs to be reformed to include those European countries which are some of the most harmful tax havens in the world. After all, it is not reasonable for the richest countries in the world to get a free card at the expense of others. Secondly, we must get away from the secrecy that protects the very richest and contributes to harmful tax policy. We need to increase transparency so that we know that profits are taxed where they are created and are not transferred to tax havens. Today we are receiving information from journalists and whistleblowers in the form of repeated bank leaks and leaks about tax evasion and money laundering, and that is not how we can do it. It is only to be regretted that the Social Democrats choose not to support openness and transparency. Instead, they have joined forces at EU level with, among others, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and Cyprus – yes, countries that are de facto tax havens. The positive thing now is that more people are in favour of transparency, but the Social Democrats continue to stand offside. Thirdly, the repeated culture of greed on the banks must be removed. The government should investigate whether banks that repeatedly engage in tax evasion or aiding tax avoidance may lose their right to act as a bank. There is also a need for severe sanctions and asset-based fines. Furthermore, the financial sector is dominated by a few commercial banks. Here the government should set up an investigation to break the lack of bank competition. Then state bank ownership can also be increased and adapted to the needs of ordinary people, where tax evasion and money laundering are not part of the business. The government must correct the financial industry's system failure. What we need is a policy of redeployment and smoothing economic disparities. Then we cannot have an economic elite that plunders the welfare and our common and buys itself free from having to pay taxes and offer transparency. Sweden loses over 23 billion in tax evasion each year – what we know about. If you do a calculation of welfare, you can see that the sum had reached 45 000 nurses. Among other things, it had solved Sweden's nursing shortage and reduced the financial gap. The Coronapendemy has shown that it is together that we manage to deal with social crises. We will need to renovate society with strong public investment. Health care needs to be upgraded, housing needs to be built and rails need to be laid. Then we cannot have an economic elite who withdraws, flees taxes and leaves the rest of society behind. The fact that the richest are going to continue their fluffing and tax evasion is not an option. I call for the approval of Amendment No 6 by the Left Party.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1236	Madam President, I would like This report deals with tax procedures and civil records. In the section on population accounts, there are suggestions on how to overcome the problems of incorrect population register addresses, the problems with the coordination numbers and other important issues. However, I will focus on tax procedures today, and I do because the government submitted a bill to Parliament the other week on the population accounts and coordination numbers. We Christian Democrats have several views on the government's proposals, and we will put them forward in a motion tomorrow. I will come back to this when we debate that proposal in a few weeks' time. Madam President, I would like It must be easier to run companies in Sweden. The start-up of businesses and the hiring of people by entrepreneurs are the foundation of our prosperity and well-being. We have everything to gain by simplifying entrepreneurship so that more people start and run businesses. In 2007, a number of different sectors, such as the restaurant sector, were introduced. The Human Resources League is a book that everyone who works in the restaurant must sign up in and out of. If the inspection reveals that the staffier has not been properly carried out, the employer will be fined. If there has been an intention to do wrong or if it has just gone wrong, it doesn't matter. For many entrepreneurs, this is a constant concern that small mistakes will lead to large fines. The purpose of the human resources league was fundamentally good: to combat unhealthy competition and undeclared work. It is still important, but we need to ask ourselves whether the tools we use are the best and most effective. As times change, tools also need to be changed. As time has passed, new rules have also been introduced to which the entrepreneur should relate. We Christian Democrats think it is clear that the human resources gypsies are not having the desired effect today. It is far too easy to deceive the system, and the errors detected may as well be about mistakes as about cheating. Moreover, when the system brings with it major problems for the employer, it can only lead to one conclusion, namely that it is high time to phase out the staff league in its current form. Madam President, I would like A fundamental principle of our legal system is that one is innocent until one is proven guilty. You also have the right to appeal a judgment and have it examined in at least one higher instance, and judgments are not enforced until they have become final. These are important principles in our legal system, yet they do not always apply. In tax cases, the scheme is such that entrepreneurs have to pay a custodial debt even when waiting for a decision from the administrative courts. Thus, an entrepreneur can get the house foreclosed and then be acquitted in a higher court. There are deferment rules, but they are limited and applied very restrictively. There is a need to introduce more generous deferral rules for tax liabilities during the duration of a legal process. There must be exceptional reasons not to grant respite, and so the Christian Democrats believe that the respite rules need to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like In 2008, the then alliance government abolished the state property tax, on the initiative of the Christian Democrats. That decision removed a major factor of uncertainty in the lives of many people. The property tax was unpredictable and taxed values that were not matched by current income. This caused many people to experience growing anxiety about the possibility of staying in their homes. If a residential area grew in popularity, prices rose, and so did taxes for all residents in the area – regardless of whether they planned to sell or stay and whatever income they had. The property tax increased socio-economic segregation by forcing those who could no longer afford the tax to move. The property tax was replaced by a lower municipal property tax, but despite this, the rateable value system is still in place. This also leaves the structure that could be used to re-establish the old real estate tax system. Last year, the debate on property tax flared up again, and only a few weeks ago several heavy Social Democrats proposed that the property tax be reintroduced. It's very troubling. We Christian Democrats say flatly no to a new property tax. We will never contribute to its introduction, and if the Social Democrats reintroduce it, we will do everything we can to abolish it again. Instead, we want to completely abolish the rateable value system, so that it becomes much more difficult to reintroduce property tax. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that we support all our reservations on this matter, but in order to gain time at voting time, I would simply like to endorse reservation 2.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1248	Madam President, I would like Today's report covers various aspects of fiscal policy, but I will focus in particular on two areas: the platform economy and the issue of population accounting. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the platform economy and why it is important to address in the debate. The Swedish labour market has undergone an extensive restructuring in the 2000s. The entry of digitalisation into the Swedish labour market has long been here and provides new conditions for an expanded sharing economy. But progress is fast, and both companies and politicians need to be more proactive in coping with these challenges. Addressing the challenges properly can pave the way for new and more resource-smart consumption patterns while creating new jobs and markets. The fact that more new jobs are added when we leave the pandemic behind is more than welcome for us to be able to deal with and overcome the historically high unemployment rate. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, we have witnessed how trade in goods and services has become a natural part of our mobiles and apps. A new approach to work, production and services has emerged, and these are innovations that should be acknowledged and not counteracted. But the freedom and flexibility of the labour market have, of course, also created new challenges that need to be addressed. If the platform economy is to function, a broad review of tax rules, laws and international agreements is needed. This development is not a Swedish phenomenon; it is global. This is why important efforts are being made both at home and within the framework of EU cooperation to support the circular economy. Over the years, initiatives have been taken to raise awareness of the needs of the platform economy at government level, but we Liberals believe that more work is needed. The Red-Green Government appointed an inquiry into the collaborative economy during the previous term of office – more specifically in 2017. Much has happened since then, however, and not all perspectives were taken sufficiently into account in the investigation that was carried out. The Swedish Tax Agency itself stated in 2016 that the main reason for the difficulties resulting from applying existing rules in the platform economy is that the regulatory framework is built around traditional business models between companies and consumers. If Sweden is to continue to be a country characterised by innovation, competitiveness, business freedom and sustainability, these new challenges urgently need to be addressed. That is why we Liberals have tabled a motion based on the establishment of a broad study to identify and change legislation and to remove the obstacles that stand in the way of the emergence of a sustainable platform economy. Madam President, I would like I would now like to focus on the second issue, namely the population register, on which many previous speakers have spoken. It is also a matter of great urgency to both debate and propose concrete measures in connection with. As has been rightly pointed out, a census was carried out 30 years ago, and much has happened in society since then. For us liberals, it is incredibly important – and I assume that it is also for other parties – that the state can carry out its commitments to individuals from a rights perspective. But if these rights are to be secured and society takes its share of the social contract, we must have functioning social functions. This presupposes that we know who is staying in Sweden, where people live and how many with expulsion decisions have not left the country. If we do not have this knowledge, neither the police, the security services, the Social Security Agency, nor the social services can carry out their duties. When people's confidence in politics is reduced, trust in authorities and in the ability of society as a whole to maintain systems is at risk – especially when confidence in the ability to solve societal problems is reduced. We can't end up there. In addition to the need to ensure social functions, we currently have major exclusion problems in our socially vulnerable areas. Over half a million people live in areas where the rule of law is suppressed, there is a great deal of overcrowding, school results are failing, unemployment is very high and crime is widespread, not least among young people. In addition, Swedish gender equality is an exception, and tens of thousands of girls and women live in freedom under the iron grip of honour repression. This is one of the reasons why shadow societies have been able to develop in Sweden. It is a terrible betrayal of society's most vulnerable, which neither feels seen nor noticed nor trusts that the right to security, which is a prerequisite of a legal society, should also apply to those who are in the most vulnerable situation. Although I also think it is important to have a national population census, it is, after all, most important to start in a first step in our socially vulnerable areas, where the needs are greatest. For this very reason, we Liberals in negotiations with the government and our partner, the Center Party, have pushed through a decision to begin this work in the very vulnerable areas. We have thereby also secured 43 million to go to this purpose for this year and another 20 million for next year. Madam President, I would like Now it is important that the Swedish Tax Agency is allowed to work on the basis of the assignments they have received. This work will be reported on 1 June next year. We will follow this work closely and analyse the evaluation. At the same time, it is important to be told that other important work is being done to prevent civil records offences. In the near future, as has been mentioned in the debate, we will be dealing with a proposal with further proposals aimed at improving the data in the population register. Of course, more needs to be done. We Liberals will always be prepared to take more steps to improve the efficiency of government work, to ensure the quality of civil records and to tighten up legislation to tackle welfare crimes. With this, I would like to endorse the Liberals' reservation 8, although I also support all our other requests.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1267	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. What we are discussing today is the Tax Procedure Act and the National Accounts Act. The Tax Procedure Act was created on 1 January 2012 and replaced about ten laws. The Population Accounts Act was granted to us on 1 July 1991. It is about determining the residence of persons and also about recording data such as identity, family and other circumstances. Members of Parliament have written many motions on this during the general period of exercise, and these are the ones we are discussing today. A functioning tax system in which everyone is doing the right thing is a prerequisite for the Swedish model, and most people are doing the right thing. Tax evasion and tax evasion occur, however, and involve huge costs for Sweden and other countries, and it pulls resources away from our common welfare. Combating tax evasion is a priority area for us Social Democrats. Measures taken by the government in the EU and internationally are, for example, more stringent requirements for tax advisors, automatic exchange of information between countries that no longer make it possible to hide assets abroad, measures relating to the EU blacklist and the recent proposal to the Riksdag to strengthen measures against cross-border tax planning. The Government has given the Swedish Tax Agency increased opportunities to work law enforcement, and the agency has received increased resources since 2016. Another example is the decision on reverse taxation in the case of, for example, mobile phones, where the aim is to prevent large-scale VAT fraud leading to large tax losses. Some measures comply with international directives that Sweden has been involved in producing, others are domestic and have been implemented on its own initiative by the government. The fight against tax evasion and evasion must continue at both international and national level. One current example is that we are now carrying out an enormous financial rescue effort to protect jobs and companies in the wake of the coronapandemy, but not without conditions. The Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency has several new possibilities to control and counteract cheating and errors, preferably even before payment. Madam President, I would like It is also of great importance from a social point of view that the activities of the population register can fulfil its task of ensuring that the information in the population register reflects the residence, identity and family law of the population, so that various functions of society can be properly based on measures and decisions. However, there is a population register error estimated at 1.9%. Measures already taken by the Government are, among other things, an opportunity for the Tax Agency to control residence, and the reintroduction of civil registration offences is also carried out. The Government has also set up a population register inquiry that will be completed in July this year. It shall, inter alia, propose measures to ensure that the population records contain, as far as possible, accurate information and prevent a person from being registered in a non-resident country. The investigation shall also propose measures relating to coordination numbers. The government has already introduced a non-disclosure clause between the population register and the tax unit within the Swedish Tax Agency, as requested and mentioned by previous speakers. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency, in collaboration with a number of voluntary municipalities, to set up pilot projects to investigate the extent of the problem of incorrect population records and develop methods and working methods to correct errors. This was also mentioned by the Liberal spokesperson. With regard to the coordination number, the government has now put forward a proposal for a fast track for action pending the Population Accounts investigation. The fast track means, among other things, more demands on the person requesting the allocation of the coordination number, greater clarity of the identification requirement, a contact address requirement, suspension of the coordination number after five years unless the request for renewal has been received and a coordination number can be declared dormant if it is assigned to a person under a false identity. In addition, there is an historic extension of the obligation for virtually all authorities to report suspected errors in the population register to the Swedish Tax Agency. What is important in the future is to get a protected home address. The fact that people without their consent can sign up for their home address is something that creates great concern and concern for vulnerable people. Madam President, I would like Another area in the report is human resources in various sectors, such as construction. The aim of human resources workers is to help reduce the incidence of undeclared work and to create a healthier competitive environment. This is really needed, for for example, the construction industry is one of the sectors that in absolute terms contribute most to the black economy, and the development is not moving in the right direction. The construction industry has gone from 9 to 20 per cent of the hidden income, so human resources are needed and the Swedish Tax Agency has the opportunity to make physical visits to various businesses, such as the construction industry. Physical visits are an important element for the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to work against the existence of undeclared work, and this also applies in other industries. This showed very clearly a joint government report on undeclared work that came in 2019. When it comes to paying taxes, it should be easy to do the right thing both for individuals and for companies. The Swedish Tax Agency has worked with this for a long time and is constantly developing its methods and digital tools, and it has achieved a high level of trust among both individuals and companies. I support the proposal of the Committee on Taxation.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1280	Madam President, I would like Being the last in an already late debate has its pros and cons. But I will use it in such a way that I will not repeat what has already been said, but I will be brief. The fact that we can rely on the population register in Sweden is the basis for large parts of society and our trust in our systems. It is in many ways the basis for the obligations and rights of people living in Sweden that we have a functioning system that reflects reality. This is so that we can avoid undue payments but also criminality and for us to have accurate statistics. In the budget for 2021, additional funds have been set aside, SEK 43 million, to strengthen and streamline public accounting activities. Madam President, I would like All persons registered in Sweden are assigned a personal identity number and identification code, and those who have once received a personal identity number will retain it for the rest of their lives. The coordination number, on the other hand, is an identifier for a person who is not or has been registered in Sweden but who is still in the country for less than a year. The coordination numbers are available to avoid confusion and to facilitate the exchange of information on persons with other authorities and organisations. However, there have been major shortcomings and problems with these coordination numbers, as identity has not always been proven. This is why the Government has presented various proposals in its proposal, including that a coordination number that is over five years old should be deactivated if it cannot be reactivated by the person himself. It will also be possible for individuals to apply for a coordination number without having to go through an authority. Authorities that find problems or errors also have an obligation to notify them. Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that we do not agree on exactly how this is to be done, there is still agreement on the most basic thing, and that is that we should have a reliable system for population records in Sweden. I shall conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1288	Madam President, I would like I don't know if it was more than me who saw the TV4 news yesterday and the terrible feature of a 13-year-old boy who's been used for drug trafficking. Instead of being in school, he has had to sell drugs in Lund during the day. It's a tragedy. When a police officer was interviewed and asked how we can prevent more children and young people from being exploited in this way, the police, like so many other police officers, replied: Make sure that the children go out of school and receive an education. I often stand here in the speaker's chair and talk about the 600 school classes that leave comprehensive school every year without a comprehensive school degree and upper secondary school qualification. It's a tragedy. What I don't talk about very often is the development in Swedish school. Anna Ekström, who so often has press meetings about everything and nothing had it not when the Swedish National Agency for Education presented the grades for grade 6 last autumn. Instead, the information was sneaked up on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website and unfortunately received no media attention at all. Those data and statistics are very worrying. More than one in four students in grade 6 has not approved in any subject or subjects. In view of what the police said and what we all know about the labour market, it is a tragedy if we do not reverse developments and ensure that all children finish school with full primary school skills. Madam President, I would like We stand here today with 190 wise claims that everyone would make the school a little better, but everyone is rejected. There is no discussion across party boundaries on how to help each other to overcome today's problems. We Moderates suggest earlier start with schooling and homework because principals, teachers and others testify that today's efforts are being made too late. We also have proposals on digitalisation because it is clear that not all children have access to the technology and that teachers have not received the skills they need. But all our proposals are rejected on the grounds that everything is under investigation. Instead, the Social Democrats choose to spend all their energy these days writing debate articles about the school market and the free school reform – as if it were the free schools that are today's problems for the school. But the real problems, that is, the children who graduate without a degree and are left to a dark future, the Social Democrats do not want to talk about. Madam President, I would like Simply adding long investigations will not reverse the trend and development in Swedish schools. I commend the Moderate reservations Nos 1 and 15.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1296	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to endorse reservation number 2. In this report, the Swedish democrats have a series of requests with proposals on how to increase the levels of knowledge and how to improve the quality of teaching. It is about head office, supervision matters, homework help, level groupings in math, Swedish and English, rules for moving to the following year and more. Most of these proposals are prepared so-called simplified, i.e. they have been dealt with in a similar report in previous parliamentary years. However, I would like to point out a number of issues on which we highlight and want to focus and which have still not been approved by Parliament. In the latest Tims report, which measures the knowledge of mathematics and science in grades 4 and 8, it was clear that the results in Swedish schools are mediocre. In terms of advanced and very high-level knowledge, Sweden lags behind its main competitors and lags far behind the main countries. The best student results in Sweden are therefore not enough to be competitive with the very best countries. This is of course serious, and if Sweden is to continue to be a prominent knowledge and research nation, the ambitions must be increased, not least in the field of science. A key prerequisite for learning is, in addition to the most basic peace and quiet in class, that students know how well they acquire knowledge and what extra effort they may have to make. In this part, the Swedish Democrats are pleased that the Riksdag has recently decided that schools should be able to introduce grades from grade 4 – although we would rather that it became mandatory instead of voluntary. However, the rating system must also be clear and clear to both students and teachers. Those of us who went to school in the 60s, 70s and 80s could in themselves get such amazing news that the fives are over and you got a four on my second topic, so then you get a three here. But regardless of that, we were quite well versed in where we stood purely in terms of knowledge. We were aware of the level of knowledge we had. It was quite difficult to be surprised by a certain grade, at least if you had a bit of self-awareness and not the surprise element Today it is not like that at all. The rating system no longer measures facts, but is more focused on measuring abilities. This means that a student can in principle be all right on all exams in one subject but still not reach the highest grades. It is unpredictable and does not spur the motivation of the students. A rating system must be simple and easy to understand. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to see a rating system based on pure factual knowledge. The teaching should also be fact-based. Anyone who knows their course literature should simply get the highest grade. In this way we believe that students can be stimulated in their studies and also get sufficient basic knowledge to pass higher studies. In a number of other countries a percentile system is applied. If you're 90 percent right, you get an A, 80 percent a B and so on. It cannot be much clearer than that, and we would like to follow this. In addition, it would greatly facilitate the teaching profession. It is not just the rating system that needs to be changed in order to strengthen knowledge levels. We also believe that assistance for pupils in need of support needs to be investigated much more urgently than today. As soon as you get the signal that support is needed, it needs to be investigated. In today's system, it takes too long. It is important that efforts are made early in the academic year so that the right efforts are made at the right time. In the middle of general exercise last autumn, the Swedish National Agency for Education decided to close its databases for information at preschool and school level. The decision concerned both municipal and individual principals. The decision of the Swedish National Agency for Education was a result of SCB's policy change, which also gained legal force in a number of judgments in the Administrative Court of Appeal. The meaning of these limitations was that information on, for example, student composition, grading, throughput and teacher density was kept confidential and thus could not be used to make comparisons between schools and principals. Nor could parents and pupils make rational school choices based on available data under these rules. This situation was not called for by anyone, whether from a political point of view, by the National Agency for Education or by municipal or independent actors. It just came. All of a sudden, information that had always been available before was no longer public. It has sometimes been pointed out in the political debate, particularly from the Social Democrats, that this would be something that the free schools were behind – that it would seem good that the information is confidential. Of course, that is not the case. I agree with the previous speaker that it is unfortunate that so much time and effort is concentrated in debate articles on systems and statements that are not right. We put forward a motion request that all previously public information should continue to be so. We are pleased that it has now been or will in any case be decided that this should be the case, with the temporary solution now on the table, but we would like this solution to be permanent and not just temporary. We'll permanentize it and we won't have to discuss it. A llt becomes clear to everyone, and everything returns to just as it was before. The ongoing coronapandemy has put our society and our school system in a series of trials, and this has had major consequences for teachers and students. The legislation must be prepared and ready for something similar to this to come back in a year, ten years or twenty years, but also in six months – we do not know. If there is something we have learned during the pandemic, it is that things cannot be predicted. We have previously stated, among other things, that students who belong to risk groups themselves or who have parents belonging to risk groups should be able to get the right to distance learning and to complete schooling at home. We note that the government has not met this need during the pandemic. We think that there should be provisions in the School Act that allow for this type of home-schooling in the event of extraordinary events for particularly vulnerable pupils or pupils of particularly vulnerable parents, so that we are ready if we have such a situation again. Legislation must be a little predictable. We can't just be reactive. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of a government headship for the public school. We nag about this in almost every debate, along with some other parties. We think it was a big mistake to publicise the school at one time. It has weakened the status of the teaching profession, and it has not helped to strengthen equivalence, rather the opposite. The national objectives, ambitions and guidelines must be the different priorities of the superior municipalities. The state should also be able to take over and run dysfunctional schools directly until the problems are solved. In this way, we guarantee full compliance with supervisory matters. Finally, Madam President, the report proposes a change in the regulatory framework for the supervision of confessional leisure centres. Today, it is the municipalities that both approve and supervise the activities. We believe that this is unreasonable and that it very much represents an extremely legally insecure regime. It is not appropriate for municipal politicians and officials to be responsible for both approval and supervision activities, and we therefore want the School Inspectorate to take over this supervision as well.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1315	Madam President, I would like What does Swedish school need? It is a question that cannot be answered easily, as is clear from the almost 200 proposals in the basis of today's debate. The fact that we can't go through everyone goes without saying. I do not want to stand here and say that I can fully answer what Sweden's schools need, firstly because I do not believe that I will ever have answers to everything and secondly because Swedish schools need many different things and different schools may need completely different things. There are, however, certain things that I and the Center Party believe need to be changed. One thing is that we need more good teachers in the classroom, because the teacher is of course crucial to the success of students in school. Teacher competence is the second most important factor in pupils' school success. The most important thing we're going to get back to. The fact that in 15 years' time, Swedish schools risk missing around 45 000 qualified teachers and preschool teachers is therefore one of society's biggest challenges, because when the school does not function, children are left to a large extent to a future without jobs and hope for the future and without the conditions to create their own future, according to their own image. And today, unfortunately, school doesn't work too many children. Madam President, I would like Part of counteracting the shortage of teachers is to make the teaching profession more attractive. These include a strengthened teacher training and professional programmes that enable continuous competence development and more career services. These are things that we in the Center Party have been involved in getting through as part of the January agreement. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that hundreds of thousands of students face unauthorized teachers every day. We therefore need to strengthen not only the competent teachers but also the unauthorised teachers, and we need to do this with increased support and better opportunities to develop as teachers, with the aim of making them eligible. Among other things, skilled, unauthorised teachers working in schools in areas of exclusion, where qualifications are particularly low, should be given improved opportunities to study further education to teachers. In studies at half speed, we in the Center Party therefore want paid salary up to 50 percent. As I said, the teacher is the second most important factor for the students, but what is the most important for success? Well, it's what parents the student has and where the student lives. Despite decades of work for a school that equalizes life chances, we have not reached that point. Turning this around is the biggest challenge for Swedish schools and for the policies that we are shaping in this House. It is at school that exclusion is created or broken. It is there that the light of the children's future is lit or extinguished. And today we fail. To break this, we need to address a number of issues in order to break school segregation. Madam President, I would like First of all, the school elections must change. The Center Party wants freedom of choice for everyone. In order for the school elections to help counteract the segregation that I just talked about, more people need to choose a school. This requires active school elections, providing support and information to pupils and guardians, transparent and coordinated admissions and reforming the queue system. We need to get away from today's situation where parents choose school at the hospital for the children to come in. In the Center Party's school policy, everyone has the opportunity to choose a school on equal terms. Quality data shall be transparent and openly accessible, regardless of the principal, and shall reach out to all. Madam President, I would like School money needs to be reviewed. School money must be reformed to meet the challenges of different schools, whether they are independent or municipal. The Center Party has long called on the government to make proposals for a reformed school allowance that takes into account the specific challenges in, for example, sparsely populated and alienated areas, but nothing has yet happened in this area. Madam President, I would like A national absence register must be established. No matter how much we invest in the school, it won't help if the student's not in place. Today we have no systematic and consistent way of keeping track of the presence in Swedish schools. In countries where work on absenteeism and attendance has been systematised, the absence has sometimes been more than halved. This can make the whole difference because whether a student is going to pass school or not. Madam President, I would like The best teachers should be in the hardest schools. There is an educational segregation in Sweden where the most skilled teachers work in schools with lighter conditions and where the students have a strong socio-economic background, while teachers in schools with major challenges, often in more vulnerable areas, are to a greater extent unauthorized. Therefore, the Center Party wants to continue to invest in schools in exclusion areas through special efforts and increased teacher salaries. Madam President, I would like We must also provide continuous and adapted support for schools. The regional presence of the school authorities must be strengthened to provide schools with more local and needs-oriented support. The support should be voluntary and be seen as an opportunity to get help in the work to strengthen the quality of the school. However, schools that fail to meet the standards and lack the results of knowledge must be forced to accept help to reverse developments. Because in the end, what the students are all about. And the schools, regardless of their principal, which are not regularly up to the demands of high quality should be able to close down more quickly. This is true in the case of a lack of knowledge, which would be a novelty in Swedish schools, but also when schools depart from the democratic values, for example. Here there must be clearer control and action by the authorities. Unserious actors who use tax funds to spread extremist ideology or otherwise undermine the Swedish school system should be removed. However, while substandard schools should be able to be closed down, free schools with demonstrably high quality and good knowledge results must be allowed to expand more easily than today to meet demand locally. Madam President, I would like Finally, the school must learn from the pandemic. Many students have found it difficult to deal with school work during the pandemic, we note. Many have felt bad because their closeness to friends has diminished or because the school has been a sanctuary from the home that has now been removed. At the same time, both Danish and Swedish surveys show that some students have actually felt better during home education. They have both felt better and actually got better school results. It is crucial for the development of Swedish schools that we really learn from this pandemic and what we can take with us to create a school that works better for everyone. Many of those who have done better now are the ones that we can normally find difficult to reach. Madam President, I would like This was a brief review of some of the parts that the Center Party sees that the school needs. But, Madam President, what does the school not need? Well, the school doesn't need more detailed government regulation. However, it needs more space for teachers and principals to act based on their professionalism. Nor does the school need a major reform of the public leadership, which would take all the strength from the development work in Sweden's schools when it is finally beginning to move forward again. Nor does the school need digitalisation without strategy and direction, but coordination and knowledge. Today's lack of transparency, participation and common standards in school digitisation leads to billions of losses and solutions that do not work. At present, the only ones who benefit from today's situation are the IT consultants. The losers are the teachers, the students and their parents, and not least the taxpayers. There the government has a responsibility to step up its work. Madam President, I would like It is time to provide the conditions for the profession to do its job and to give students better opportunities to take in teaching and to take in school in the digital age so that school development is made possible and not hindered. That is the centre party's benchmark in school politics. Of course, I support all the proposals made by the Center Party, but I am in favour of reservation 18.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1335	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 5. With a clear government funding and allocation of resources based on needs, financial resources can be prioritised and allocated to those activities that play the greatest role in students' knowledge development. This means that the current system of school money needs to be changed. The Left Party believes that today's school funding system with school money must be abolished in order to increase the equivalence of Swedish schools. The costs of teaching are largely the same regardless of the size of the class, leading to large classes going with surpluses and smaller classes with deficits. In other words, schools with higher teacher density and smaller children's groups are disadvantaged, while schools with low teacher density benefit from the current school money system. Rural schools and schools with pupils in need of smaller teaching groups are disadvantaged by the current system. Klas size and teacher density are important for students' knowledge learning. With a changed school financing system, a national responsibility for the school and a cohesive school without market logic, the negative trend can be reversed and the school system given the opportunity to become equal. Therefore, we believe that the government should urgently investigate how to replace the school money system with a financing model that better benefits all schools. Madam President, I would like Sweden has the most generous rules in the world for public grants to private schools, while these schools can use the grants almost exactly as they like. As long as school companies are allowed to pick out profits and have a different mission from the publicly owned school, we have proposed a fairer financing system and what it can look like. Even when the current system was introduced, critical voices were raised that warned against it – for increased costs, increased segregation and reduced equivalence. Now, in retrospect, research and statistics show that these fears have unfortunately come true. Although it has been evident for a long time that the experiment with market solutions in the school world has long since gone beyond control, S-governments have on several occasions previously chosen to make conditions even more generous for private schools. In 2008, the bill "Public grants on equal terms" stated that grants to independent schools should be calculated on the same basis as the municipalities apply when allocating resources to their own activities. But the conditions are not the same for municipal and private schools. Previously, there was a compulsory school allowance. This meant that the municipality could make a deduction in school money before the money was sent to the independent operators. A municipality has an obligation to offer education to all school-obliging pupils and cannot refuse to accept a student. The municipality must also ensure that all children moving to the municipality have a school to attend and that there is a willingness to receive pupils from schools that go bankrupt. The individual principals can to a large extent choose which pupils are allowed to attend their schools. And that's the system we've seen. The large surpluses in the free school sector are the result of schools being creative when it comes to reducing their costs at the expense of pupils and staff. A common way is to hire more unauthorized teachers who thus also receive lower salaries. But they also save some of the activities that are not directly attributable to teaching. Much is contrary to the intentions of the school's policy documents. However, since the regulatory framework is often unclear, there is no way to prosecute even the most obvious violations. Madam President, I would like So private schools do not have the same obligations. This is also noted in Björn Åstrand's study A more equal school – reduced school segregation and improved resource allocation. It also states that private schools should not receive as much resources as publicly owned schools. The aim and ambition of municipal schools is quite different. Therefore, funding must also be higher for the municipal, publicly owned, schools. We therefore believe that the Government urgently needs to investigate how to reintroduce the compulsory education allowance in accordance with the proposal made by Björn Åstrand. Madam President, I would like I was going to change the subject and raise an issue that is not as big for some. But I think it's very important. It's about Sami school. Earlier this year, I tabled a proposal, a committee initiative for the Education Committee. I proposed, in accordance with the official investigations that have been carried out, that responsibility for the Sami school and the Sami education should be transferred to the Sami Parliament. The committee initiative was rejected on the grounds that the issue would come up later. The issue is now coming up, and the proposal will be rejected again. Not a single party has supported the Left Party proposal. Sami preschool and school will contribute to the development of children's and pupils' Sami identity, culture and language. The Sami school board will work to ensure that all Sami children have access to an equivalent education of good quality with Sami teaching elements. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the state's efforts in Sami education with the Sami Board as the responsible authority. These audits show that the objectives of the operation have not been achieved. This is something that has happened for very many years. Time and again, the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised this, and finally the Swedish National Audit Office concluded that the Samiskolstyrelsen does not have sufficient conditions to carry out its tasks. Therefore, the Swedish National Audit Office proposed that the activities with the Sami schools should be housed within the area of responsibility of the Sami Parliament. There was also a study about the school authorities, where it was once again established that there are a number of different problems when it comes to systematic quality work, the ability to produce teaching materials and a number of other problems. Once again, this time from an investigation, it was suggested that the responsibility of the Sami school and the responsibilities of the Sami education should be transferred to the Sami Parliament. Nevertheless, we are standing here again today and there will be a rejection of the Left Party proposal. The Left Party agrees that a transfer of responsibility from the Sameskollstyrelsen to Sametinget would improve the conditions for Sami education. The incorporation of the tasks of the Sami Board into the Sami Parliament is also in line with the form of government, which states that the opportunities of the Sami people to maintain and develop their own cultural and community life should be promoted. That is why the Left Party has tabled this proposal, and we find it regrettable that we are once again not getting support for it. Madam President, I would like The last subject that I was going to raise, and that I really am passionate about, is racism and aphrophobia in the Swedish school. For Africans and blacks all over the world, the murder of George Floyd in the United States last year and everything that followed after that has upset and reminded of his own experiences of racism and aphrophobia. Aphrophobia is called when racism and other violations are directed against people of African origin based on skin color. Aphrophobia occurs throughout the world and sees no limits when it comes to age. As a representative of visible minorities in Sweden, black children often encounter aphrophobia from a very early age. The Foundation Friends' latest report shows that ethnicity is the most common root cause of harassment at school. Despite this, and despite the fact that research studies from Harvard University, among others, show how racism and its consequences harm children's mental and physical health, most of the schools in our country still lack concrete tools to consciously work preventively and to deal with violations, harassment and unequal treatment based on aphrophobic or other discrimination based on skin colour. This contributes to the fact that thousands of children's experiences of racism at school and preschool are not recognised as a real problem. For example, the Forum for Parents of Afrosvenska Children, Afrosvenskarnas Forum for Justice, Focus Afrophobia, Black Lives Matter Sweden and Afrosvenskaarnas Riksorganisation have collected over 45 000 signatures requiring a change. The Left Party agrees that change must be made. We therefore believe that the School Inspectorate must be given the task of monitoring the school's work against aphrophobic and other forms of racism in school.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1357	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Christian Democrats' reservation to be approved 3. The Christian Democrats are working for a school where no child is held back and no one is left behind. That is why we take the lack of knowledge in school very seriously. Every fourth student today completes grade 9 without full grades, and 16 percent do so without eligibility for upper secondary school. This isn't good enough. Every student in this country needs to be given the opportunity to go to a school where there is order and where the students are treated with respect, so that knowledge can be the focus. Teachers need better opportunities to pass on the knowledge needed for more children to be eligible and for more children to have the opportunity to realise their dreams. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that Swedish school would need to become more knowledge-based, i.e. that you go to school until you have learned what you are supposed to do. Those who are at risk of not meeting the targets need to go to school more often even on holidays. It should apply at primary school. In particular, those students who do not reach the targets of certain grades need to remain in place until the knowledge requirements are met. It is against this background that the Christian Democrats have proposed that the possibility of introducing compulsory education in Sweden should be investigated, or an extension of compulsory education should apply until the goals are reached. We believe that this would be an important step in the right direction to ensure that students actually reach the knowledge goals and bring with them the knowledge they need for the future. The key to improving knowledge outcomes are, of course, skilled principals with a clear school leadership and really good teachers. More teaching time is needed in primary schools and early knowledge checks, not least with regard to language development, so that support measures can be put in place on time. The homework needs to be done at school for children who cannot do it at home. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats often talk about the importance of the family. The importance of parents and families in schooling cannot be stressed enough. However compensatory we want the school to be, no matter how much we try to make things right and no matter how much we wish the family background would not play a role in school results, the family will always be important. The importance of the family therefore needs to be recognised by the school, and parental responsibility needs to be restored. The Christian Democrats want there to be special parental contracts – a kind of liability contract between school, student and parents that clarifies the expectations of the student regarding the school's rules of conduct, treatment and, of course, the studies themselves, but also clarifies what the parents can do to support their children and raise the results of their knowledge. The newspaper Mid-I recently highlighted Kista International School in Akalla as a successful example of how a highly segregated school by involving parents has succeeded in raising school results. They have had at least 92 percent access to upper secondary school five years in a row now, which is above the average in Stockholm and makes the school one of the most successful based on their socio-economic conditions. I think that more parents would like to hear in an encouraging way that one of the most important things they can do to create good conditions for their children at school is, for example, to read aloud to the children every night and that they as parents have a crucial role to play in ensuring that the children eat right, move and lie down on time and that the homework is done. Just to tell the children that at school you listen to the teacher and do as the teacher says and to ask each day how it has been in school during the day matters for how the student views the school and, by extension, also for the school results. Schools and parents simply need to work together and help each other to give our children the opportunity to learn as much as possible at school. Madam President, I would like There is currently an important debate on the lack of equivalence in schools. We Christian Democrats believe that the possibility of increased state funding or governance should be considered in order to create just more equal and equal conditions throughout the country. However, there are those who are trying instead to blame inequality on the free choice of schools and the country's free schools. As so often, freedom of choice is threatened in the name of equality. The Christian Democrats will therefore continue to defend free school elections. We will continue to stand up for the right of students and parents to choose. This applies regardless of whether you choose an independent, a municipal or, for that matter, a Christian free school. Instead, in order to increase equality, we propose an active and mandatory school choice and also more information for the school elections. Of course, the School Inspectorate should have muscles to shut down bad schools, but the free schools that follow the school law and curriculum, conduct teaching in accordance with the school's values and also perform good knowledge results means a profit for Sweden. Thanks to them, more children are given the opportunity to go to a school where they are no longer held back or left behind.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1370	Madam President, I would like When we think about the school's mission and the school's focus, we usually think about important values. It's about the school's democratic mission. It is about conveying the importance of equality and other fundamental democratic values. In this report, I would like to highlight in particular the proposals we have put forward to tackle problems in areas of exclusion. Unfortunately, we in Sweden have some sixty vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas where not only school results and crime leave much to be desired, but where we also see problems with domestic extremism and radicalisation. Madam President, I would like I had hopes far into the committee's management that the Liberals would be supported with some of the proposals we have put forward to tackle extremism in educational care, extremism in preschool and, not least, extremism in compulsory school. How is it that a school that has conducted gender-disaggregated education for over 20 years can still be allowed to conduct school activities in Sweden, Madam President? Sweden is a country that is an international model when it comes to gender equality. Gender equality begins in preschool. Gender equality must start at school. The school's democratic mission is being thwarted and counteracted daily by those who still manage to slip through the bureaucratic regulations that exist today. It is a complete failure of the school policy pursued that primary schools can not only continue to operate despite recurrent shortcomings but that they can also expand, expand and start new units. It is totally unacceptable and a development for which the Liberals want to put an end. I hope and believe that most parties agree with this demand. Unfortunately, however, I do not see it when it comes to the political positions of the Committee on Education, in which the Liberals are, on a point-by-point basis today, sole reserveers. I request the approval of reservation 10 under the section free schools. In Sweden, a radical Islamist who is the leader of a party in Somalia can lead a school in western Sweden. The school led by the headmaster can expand. This activity in western Sweden can also expand its operations. It depends on the gaps in the school law. You can use old unused permits to start new operations. One gets away with the establishment control because the ownership and management test does not cover the entire leadership of a school. Madam President, I would like That's what the Liberals want to change. That is why we have called for ownership and management testing to include everyone who has an influence on a school and not just when it comes to finance, budget and organisational. As regards the gender-disaggregated teaching that has been conducted at the relevant school in western Sweden, due to the regulations and the fact that the Swedish School Inspectorate is unable to withdraw the permit, the Swedish School Inspectorate has been able to continue its activities. It creates alienation. It does not create the school that many of us school politicians dream of. We want our boys and girls to meet each other. We want them to learn how to detect the problem of gender patterns and how restrictive it can be when you are arranged and broken down by gender standards. All that we set out in curricula, curricula and school teams are daily opposed and counteracted by these schools and the so-called educational leadership of those schools. It is a great failure that we also see these people abusing the clauses of the school law to start publicly funded activities already at pre-school level. Madam President, I would like That is why we have called in this report for the introduction of a ban on the establishment of new confessional pre-schools, but also a stop to the expansion of existing ones. I regret that the motion has also been rejected. If we are to achieve a world-class school, if we are to get away from extremism, radicalisation and domestic extremism in the vulnerable areas and get to exclusion, we have to go to preschool and school. It is distressing that hundreds of children, hundreds of young students, are exposed to these radicalized environments on a daily basis because of the shortcomings in the regulations.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1387	Madam President, I would like I have a question about Liberals' reservation 9 with the title Choice of School. There, the Liberals write, "We want to create a common administration of school queues." By coordinating and centralising school elections through a system that includes all schools in the neighbourhood, both municipal and independent, the thresholds for school elections can be sanded down. ..................................................... My rather simple question to Roger Haddad is: is it the case that the Liberals are advocating a common admission structure as proposed in the Equality Investigation? Or do the Liberals advocate coordinated admission as is the case in many cities and towns today where there are both municipal and independent schools? Do you mean by this a common admission process in which all schools are forced in, or do you mean a coordinated admission that is either voluntary or coercive but where the respective independent schools can still retain their selection tools? I hope Roger Haddad understands the question. It would be great to have clarification so that we know what the Liberals stand for.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1391	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue that Björn Åstrand has investigated about joint admissions for both municipal and independent heads. We are not in favour of the model proposed by the investigator. However, I myself come from a municipality, the City of Västerås, which for many years has had a great collaboration both on the upper secondary school side and within, for example, preschool operations. It coordinates and collaborates between the municipality and the individual preschools to ensure that everyone gets a good picture of the offer and good information in order to make active choices. It's the opportunity I'm going to work for. That is also what we have extended our hand to the government. This is a point on which we will hopefully be able to agree.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1394	Madam President, I would like If I understand it correctly, then it is a coordinated admission. Just to be clear, Roger Haddad: Is it the case that the Liberals are, of course, in favour of independent schools having their own selection instruments in the coordinated admission, just as they have in the coordinated admission systems that exist today, for example, in Roger Haddad's municipality of residence?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1395	Madam President, I would like That is why the Liberals have not agreed to the statements of the Social Democrats or to demand, for example, that the selection instrument be removed from waiting time. However, we have opened to adjust the queue time to adjust the entire coordination of the admission system. The answer to Patrick Patrick's question is yes.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1396	Madam President, I would like Much works well in the Swedish school. Today, millions of children went to school as usual, or yes, those who do not have Easter break or remote education. But a lot of people went to school today. They went there to do their best to learn as much as possible. They would probably say that they went there to hang out with their friends, to do things, because they like their teacher or because they have to. Then it is up to the school to make sure that the learning becomes the focus. Because that's what it's all about: students who learn, develop and are raised to be their best self. Hundreds of thousands of teachers, principals and other school staff went to work today and made an effort to arrange interesting and useful teaching. They have also done their best for students' learning and development. Because that's what it's all about. We are in this House today to debate hundreds of proposals that put students' learning and development in focus. Because that's what it's all about. There are proposals on school funding, on IT issues, on free schools, on school elections, on supervision and so on. The report is called Comprehensive School Issues, and that is our responsibility in this House. It is about building an effective system that supports students' learning and development as far as possible. Madam President, I would like As I said, much is good in the Swedish school. However, the system for which we in this House are responsible is partly defective. It is incredibly different what education students receive. Schools in Sweden are segregated, and parents' educational background plays too much of a role in the opportunities for pupils to pass school. We have done a lot in government since we won the 2014 elections. We have gradually increased resources to school and also weighted them so that most of them end up where they are most needed. We have also introduced an aid guarantee in the early school years, ensuring that there are funds for homework and holiday school for those who need it and built a model for support for those principals who most need it – to take some examples among many important reforms. What about the knowledge results? They have indeed turned up in our years in power. But the inequality persists. In that part, much remains to be done so that all students have equal opportunities to learn a lot and become their best self and so that the school compensates for the differences in life conditions that exist between students. There are investigative proposals to change the system for the better both in terms of school funding and resource allocation, teaching resources, the composition of student groups and the role of the state. And before I am attacked for social engineering or to be against free schools or, for that matter, against freedom of choice, I want to clarify a few things. Madam President, I would like Although we can statistically see that free schools have lower teacher density, lower qualifications and lower salaries, although we can see that students in free schools learn less but get higher grades and even if we get media disclosures about fiffles with selection and marketing scandals, I am not against free schools. Actors operating in a system will do their best within the system. A system that allows profit as a driving force will lead to profit-hungry venture capitalists putting dividends ahead of learning. A system that rewards those who give high ratings will lead to grade inflation. A system that not only allows but even rewards segregation will lead to segregation. So the fact that we have a great deal of disparateness and segregation in school is the result of the system. That is why we need to move forward with proposals to increase equivalence and reduce segregation. Municipal schools need compensation for the commitment they have to offer all pupils a place in a school near their home and to offer new pupils a place in school. The right of pupils and their guardians to choose a school is here to stay. I'm in favour of freedom of choice. But as the system is designed now, it is not fair. Therefore, the selection rules must be re-designed so that everyone has equal opportunities to enter popular schools. Adopting a portal provision on universal social composition in schools and classes is not social engineering. It is a way of expressing what was the whole meaning of the establishment of primary school, i.e. that pupils from different backgrounds should meet in school. It would be good for everyone. To this end, the state must take greater responsibility for both quality and funding of schools. The State's supporting role needs to be strengthened and resources allocated as needed. It would strengthen both trust and stability in the system. We need to arrange the system so that it gives the individuals operating in the best possible conditions to do everything they can for students' learning and development. Because that's what it's all about. Madam President, I would like Finally, I have to say a few words about distance and remote teaching like this in pandemic times. A few years ago, I had a conversation with an IT consultant who said that digitalisation has killed publishers, printers and record stores. His prognosis was that the next crisis industry will be the school. When technology and people are mature to ask whether the school must be a house with teachers and students in, or if it may be something else, the education industry will be the next crisis industry, he said. Now, after a year of the pandemic, it is of course too early to draw any conclusions on the long-term consequences of distance and remote learning that has occurred on and off. But it's not too early to conclude that that IT consultant was wrong. The entire Swedish school is talking about education debt, and although conclusions should be drawn with caution, it is already clear that the differences that exist in students' ability to pass school – precisely the differences that the school has as its mission to equalise – are reinforced when learning is placed at home. In this context, I recall the Moderates and their positions when we discussed the distance education bill last spring. They then pushed the line to remove all restrictions on remote learning and that distance learning should be considered an option for all students to choose. I note that the Moderates, like the consultant I was just talking about, were wrong. Very special circumstances have meant that we have had distance teaching in schools throughout the country. Experience of this will of course be taken into account in the future, and the evaluation of it, as well as the evaluation of other interventions related to the pandemic, is best done ex post. With this in mind, I support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training in its UbU10 report and reject all motions.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1414	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Linus Sköld is asking me about remote and distance education. I would remind you that, as recently as a few months ago, we tabled proposals for a committee initiative in which we wanted to ensure that all children in Sweden have digital technology in order to benefit from distance learning now during the pandemic. The Social Democrats voted against this, and they said that there was no problem with digitalisation in Sweden, because it is going so well. No, it's not going well. According to the Teachers' Association's report, in which 5 000 teachers responded, presented on 18 March, teachers feel that 19 per cent of their students are unable to take advantage of remote and distance learning due to shortcomings in technology or home conditions. It would have been nice if the Social Democrats had voted in favour of our committee initiative to identify whether there are such problems and to take action. So the Social Democrats voted against it. I also wonder whether there could not be a bit of dressy humility about what the Social Democrats have been doing now for six years. I have here in hand letter 75 on what the government has not done. It can be seen, among other things, that the decision to digitise the central tests and central correction of them has been included since the parliamentary year 2015/ 16. It's still unenforced. It would have been excellent if it had been in place now during the pandemic. But no, it's not. There is also a proposal in which the Riksdag has decided to commission the government to change the law in order to make gender-disaggregated teaching impossible – what Roger Haddad just talked about here. It's still unenforced. There is another point from the parliamentary year 2016/ 17, when the Riksdag decided to give the Government the task of amending the School Act in order to create security, order, peace and quiet in school. It's not done either. A little dressy humility that you have been in power for over six years now and have not carried out these parliamentary decisions, please!
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1420	Madam President, I would like I take Kristina Axén Olin's line as if the Moderates have changed their minds. Digitalisation is not the solution, and distance learning is not the complete alternative that they claimed it would be when they opposed the design of the distance and distance learning bill that we presented last year. It is the only way I can understand Kristina Olin Axén's very sprawling attack on my speech. I think, as I said, that evaluation is best done afterwards. When it comes to identifying the concerns, there is ongoing – as Kristina Axén Olin knows – a continuous dialogue between the government and the government, and indeed the committee, about the situation in the country's schools. In that part it is by no means unknown what is going well – there are things that go better than expected – and what problems there are. Of course, the full evaluation can best be carried out afterwards. Some of the things that Kristina Axén Olin accuses us of not having moved on with, it is very well known that the government is working with. Some parts of them are being tried and we agree with our cooperation parties in the January agreement to implement them during this term of office. Let us therefore come back to, for example, the digitisation of national tests.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1423	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Linus Sköld now says that one is aware that distance learning is not going well. All the time when we have argued it and put forward committee proposals, it has been argued that it is going well. Differences in Swedish schools are increasing. It is really terrible to see that children in socially vulnerable areas who are not able to study at home are now falling behind. We should do what was done in England: scan directly which children do not have access to technology at home. England then acquired and distributed 1.3 million computers and routers to enable all children to participate in distance learning. Here in Sweden, the Social Democrats will evaluate after the pandemic how things have gone. Then it's too late. Then we've lost even more children. Is it not enough that every fourth child in grade 6 has not already approved on any subject? Should we have an even higher percentage of children who can't handle school? No, Madam President, that is not good enough. I do not think it is acceptable for the government to show this disregard and think that we should investigate after the pandemic ends how things have gone.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1427	Madam President, I would like I agree with Kristina Axén Olin's assertion that the differences are increasing. In response to what Kristina Axén Olin said in her speech, I would like to send back that Kristina Axén Olin is not prepared to do anything about the real problems, the problems that I raised in my speech and which relate to how the school elections have segregated effects and how the distribution of resources does not meet the students who need the resources best. Kristina Axén Olin pretends that this doesn't matter. Of course, it matters what needs students have for how resources should be allocated. Of course, it matters how you make selections to oversaw schools for how segregation becomes in the schools that are in the system. These are the real problems, and they are the ones Kristina Axén Olin does not want to talk about and does not want to do anything about.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1430	Madam President, I would like Liberals have actively contributed to making schools with recurring shortcomings easier to get rid of their condition. This is now on its way. We have also seriously ensured that a stop to the establishment of secular schools is actually about to happen, although the timetable is somewhat advanced. However, there are a couple of proposals in this report, Madam President, which we believe are important if we are to improve quality, increase security and increase equality in schools. It is about accessing schools and preschools related to extremism. Therefore, I would like to ask the Social Democrats and Linus Sköld: why are you voting against expanding the important ownership and management test to include the school principal and school head, because they have an important educational influence and according to the School Act the ultimate responsibility for the school activities carried out?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1433	Madam President, I would like As Roger Haddad rightly points out, we agree to do important things in the field of free school. When it comes to secular free schools, for example, the Social Democrats went to elections to abolish them. Confession, faith and education are not related – at least teaching is not related to it. So, of course, we agree on important things. As far as the question of ownership and management testing is concerned, we have come a long way in tightening up how this test is carried out. I am happy to continue along this path and continue that discussion with Roger Haddad and the Liberals. However, to now make a decision that the trial should involve the headmaster and the school manager feels rash.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1435	Madam President, I would like It is with the Liberals' proposal to put a stop to the establishment of secular schools that for the first time we can find a political majority for such a decision, and I look forward to that. This debate is about the fact that there are still radicalists, Islamists and violent people who can continue to engage in gender-disaggregated education. And not only that, they can also expand and start new schools. One reason for this, Linus Sköld, is that today's school legislation on ownership and management testing is basically just looking at the financial, board and ownership. On the Swedish School Inspectorate's website it is very clear that the Vice-Chancellor and School Manager are not included. In the example I mentioned from western Sweden, Madam President, with the school that has had gender-disaggregated education for over 20 years, the current school management has passed and passed the School Inspectorate's establishment control due to this gap in the school law. It is extremely provocative that we in Sweden can still accept this and, with state-sponsored approval, grant them permission to expand their activities. Here I would have liked the Social Democrats to have stood by us, approved our motion and put an end to these activities in western Sweden and certainly elsewhere in the country.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1438	Madam President, I would like I share Roger Haddad's outrage at extremists who can conduct school activities in Sweden. I think you need to have a strict ownership and management test. I do not shy away from the discussion as to whether it should be stricter than it is. However, it needs to be borne in mind that whoever is ultimately responsible for the implementation of the students' education, except at principle and system level we in this House, is the principal. That is why it is the composition of the principal that is subject to the ownership and management review that we have decided.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1440	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good speech, Linus Sköld! Linus Sköld talked a little bit about digitalisation, and I appreciate that. It can be said that it is important to include the good perspectives here as well. It has opened up for many students to assimilate teaching they would otherwise not have had access to. The school has been changed by digitalisation and has taken new steps forward during covid. Perhaps the S-led Ministry of Education should ensure that this is done well and well and move forward rather than thinking that we have not seen a revolution of school. One good thing about the way we handled the school is that the school has essentially been open, which in many other countries has not been the case. But that is not what I primarily wanted to talk to Linus Sköld about, Madam President. I would like to ask about the absence register, which S continues to oppose. We in the Center Party, Madam President, would like to see an absence register so that you can see which students are actually in school. It may be a revolutionary thought, but we in the Center Party still believe that it is best for students to be in school if you want the school to teach them something. Today, we don't really know if they're in school or not. As I said in the previous speaker's chair, we have seen that in countries, such as the Netherlands, with an absence register with systematic checks on which pupils are in school and what happens when they are not there, which secures the pupils and monitors what happens to those who are not in school, the absence falls sharply. This means that more students are in school, which means that we get better education, which means that we get fewer who fail in school. We get more who succeed, more who can make their way in life and more who can create a future. The Social Democrats do not want us to spend time in Sweden. I wonder why you don't want that, Linus Sköld.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, for the question. As I mentioned in a previous shift of lines, there are positive effects of the digitalisation that is now being forced upon very many different activities and not least the school. I think that there will be positive lessons to be learned and that this is an opportunity that should not be missed. I would therefore like to reassure Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen that we are on the way forward and that we will take these experiences with us. Both the Swedish School Inspectorate and the Swedish National Agency for Education have already been commissioned to analyse the outcome of remote and distance teaching. The Parliament addressed an announcement to the government about the absence register not very long ago. As is known, work is ongoing at the Swedish National Agency for Education to analyse the current situation picture of the absence at national level. The National Agency for Education has since also been commissioned to look at what would be required for the introduction of a national register of absences. I think that this cannot be unknown to Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen. When we debated this report – it was a report from the Swedish National Audit Office – I explained the position of the Social Democrats, namely that the person who has the power and responsibility to fix if a student does not come to school is the principal, the headmaster and the teacher. The further up you lift the statistics, the less useful it will be. Anyone who needs to know it is the one who has the power and the mandate to do something about it, right, Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1449	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply and recommend to Linus Sköld and the government that, in the overviews to be done about what can be learned from covid, actually also look at what other countries have learned. This applies not least to the other Nordic countries, where there have been slightly different effects. We have tried to get the government to do that, but I can say that we have received rather lukewarm answers. So there has been an announcement of a national absence register. It voted against by the Social Democrats, of which Mr Linus Sköld should also be aware. The reason highlighted here by Linus Sköld is that when you raise the information to a higher level it gets further away from the one who can do something, and therefore we do not need to have such a register. Then one can imagine that it goes a little bit against what has been the very basis when it comes to making Swedish care, for example, much better, namely registers at national level about differences between different types of methods. This is what makes Swedish health care and Swedish medical research, etcetera, have progressed in a way that it has hardly done in any other country. We have been watching what we do, how we do it, how it looks for the whole country and what differences there are. We believe that we should transfer to school in order to better monitor what is happening at national level. It is not about deciding how to do it, but about jointly evaluating what is done and what actually works, so that those in a profession can get advice on how to do their professional work better. As in health care, one could also do at school: not so many political points but a statistical and scientifically based basis for development. As I said, however, the Social Democrats are not in favour of this at present, Madam President.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1453	Madam President, I would like No, as Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen rightly points out, we voted against the introduction of a national register of absences, for the reasons I have just given. I understand that what Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen is asking for in his latest reply is a register of methods that are successful, and that is a little bit different. Evidence, which is what has been the success of healthcare, is about isolating a factor and deciding by scientific methods that it is precisely that factor that has the positive effect. In teaching situations, and in some cases absenteeism situations, the context is often so complex that it will not be possible to isolate a factor. This will therefore not demonstrate with evidence which methods have been successful. My position and that of the Social Democrats is that a national register will not bring a single child back to school. On the other hand, the hard work of principals and teachers in understanding the problem and using the methods they assess will work best in the individual situation to make a difference.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1456	Madam President, I would like I must say that I was horrified at the outcome of independent schools with which Linus Sköld began his speech, and so I could not help asking for a reply. It is a rough generalization, where Linus Sköld says that there is less knowledge but higher grades. He says that's where there are unauthorized teachers, and he says it's cheating with admissions. I expect more from a Member representing a government party than to put the level of debate there. There are many free schools that make solid efforts and where there are no problems with teacher qualifications. There's no one cheating on admissions. There's no problem there. When it comes to this with lower knowledge and higher grades, the statistics on national tests and the grade you receive in Swedish, English and math when you quit the ninth grade do not support what Linus Sköld stands here and says. Such gross generalisations are, in my opinion, indecent in this House, especially when one represents a party that is in a position of government. I must therefore ask Linus Sköld: Is Linus Sköld not ashamed of being so generalising and so disregardful of all the students, teachers and parents involved in independent schools?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1460	Madam President, I would like I am not ashamed of my speech, Patrick Reslow. However, you can get a little red about the cheeks when you wonder how Patrick Reslow listens. If he had listened to my speech, he would have heard that the allegations are not about the individuals operating in the system. They are doing their best on the basis of what the system allows, and what the system rewards, admits and leads to, we will have as a result. I'm not against free schools, Patrick Reslow! I'm not against teachers in free schools. I don't think there should be any shadow at all over the parent who chooses a free school for his child. I am not against free schools – how many times should I have to say it? I am against a system that leads to segregated effects and rewards the wrong drivers. Regarding the difference between knowledge and grades, Patrick Reslow, the basic statistical reports are compiled by the National Agency for Education. After all, it is the difference between grade results and how it goes the first time at the university that is one of the basics of that. Another basis is precisely the difference between results in national tests and grades, which Patrick Reslow claims does not substantiate what I say, which it certainly does. So I'm not ashamed. Perhaps I'm ashamed of how bad Patrick Reslow is at listening.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1464	Madam President, I would like This is becoming even more absurd. To say that it is cheating with admissions and that you have problems with less knowledge and higher grades, wouldn't it be an attack on teachers in independent schools? What Linus Sköld is saying is that these teachers cannot apply the rating system correctly. I find it remarkable that Linus Sköld does not see it for himself. Then there's the statistics from the National Board of Education. There's a page called fact check. Just go in there and look. There you can see the results of the grades in grade 9 compared to national tests. Then you can see that there is a little difference between one of the substances. Now I don't remember which one. But in all other subjects, such as Swedish and English, the municipal schools are over in the rating outcome compared to the national test. There is a greater discrepancy in municipal schools than in independent schools. This is another example of how the Social Democrats create myths and how they view the work done in independent schools. I am not going to take this in this Chamber. I think it's wrong. There are students who choose independent schools, and we have an election system. There are dedicated teachers who work in independent schools. There are principals in charge of these schools. There are parents who are deeply involved in their children's schooling, whether the school is municipal or independent. At some point the Social Democrats must stop being a one-question party. It would be nice if Linus Sköld here said: Yes, I am ashamed.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1467	Madam President, I would like The statement about cheating with admissions is based on a number of media reports from the last ten years. They're about how to make selections into overexplored schools. Some say no to students described as students with or in difficulties while at the same time saying yes to students described as high-performance. This can be found in media eportage. Mission review brought this up ten years ago. Last time, in the spring, a Vice-Chancellor testified that free schools call and take references to students who are changing schools from her school to independent schools. I'm not standing here making this up. These reports are available. However, I cannot say anything about the truthfulness and generalism of them. But the reports are there, and I have said nothing but that. In spite of this, I am not against free schools. I'm not against the staff at free schools, but I think they're doing a good job. I think they should keep doing a good job. However, I think that systems need to be changed. Patrick Reslow is standing here denying grade inflation. It is a direct consequence of the market school and that we also run the public sector as if it were a market. If a school scores high, it becomes more popular and can attract more students and earn more money if you are a profit-making player. There are driving forces that lead to grade inflation. Patrick Reslow laughs when I say this. I don't know what to say about denying this. The January Contract Parties agree that we should find methods to work against grading inflation. We see that it is real. There are investigators who have investigated the issue, and they say it is real. Patrick Reslow will have to keep denying this as much as he wants.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1472	Madam President, I would like There are many cross-cutting school issues, and I will talk about the most important of them. I will tell you why we politicians should ensure that every tax chandelier paid to school is used in school. Those who run schools with the aim of maximizing their own profit distribution should not be allowed to do so with our tax money. This is the most basic and comprehensive system error in Swedish school, and it is time for us to end this world-unique school experiment. It's broken. It's time to redo and do the right thing. Why is profit in school the most basic problem? In fact, it is not only because of the moral doubt that we have politicians who accept that school groups in the midst of a pandemic are handing out profit amounts in the 100-million-dollar class to their owners, while 14% of students do not graduate from primary school with competence to upper secondary school. It's not that many free schools wouldn't be good. Nor is it because we in the Green Party think it is bad that parents are allowed to wish for school. On the contrary, we think that is a good thing. But the profit interest of some school owners, together with the fact that every student, in or out of a school, has a great financial impact on the principal's ability to keep the budget, has made the school a market. It has made teachers service staff and parents customers. Today, teachers' and principal's organisations testify to more threats from parents. 中 Raise my child's grades or we'll take our school money and go! At the same time, grade inflation is increasing, i.e. more students get higher grades than they deserve. The most alarming problem with school marketization is that it drives school segregation, and school segregation is one of our society's greatest challenges. It means that today we divide students based on their background. Pupils with highly educated parents at one school, and pupils with low-skilled parents at another school. Why is this being done? Unfortunately, the logic is simple. Children of highly educated people can handle the school more easily. They can pass school with more classmates in the same classroom and fewer teachers per student. They are simply cheaper. Schools make money by getting, attracting and selecting the students who are the easiest and cheapest to teach. School segregation is not just a threat to trust and cohesion in society. It is also a threat to the quality of all children's education. We know from international comparisons that none of the world's best school systems is unequal. Those who produce the Pisa test point to school segregation as one of the biggest issues that we Swedish politicians have to address in order for us to get back an equal school and a world-class school. In Sweden, however, we not only divide children according to background. We also give those children who have the toughest conditions the least educated teachers. We give them less resources than they need. Because when we distribute school money based on average electricity, while there are no more schools that are average, those students in schools that have many students with good chances from the start will get more resources than they need and those who go to schools where many classmates come from home with big challenges will not get what is needed. This is one of the reasons why many children in Sweden do not pass school. Why is this? Why don't municipalities just spend more money on those schools where things aren't going so well? In fact, most people try to do so. Efforts are being made to make socio-economic distributions of school money. But basically the rule is that if you have a school with big problems you must not give it extra resources unless you give extra resources to all schools, including those who do not have these problems. So it is not possible to go in with large resources precisely to the school where many children are at risk of being recruited into criminal gangs if you do not at the same time give a lot of resources to the free school in the middle of town. This makes it super expensive to bet where it is needed most. Moreover, the so-called socio-economic money of many municipalities is not even enough for those additional resources – often because it is too small from the beginning, but sometimes because it goes to pay for the empty school places that the municipality must have when, for example, pupils move or to be prepared to receive pupils from independent schools. This is a problem. However, the market logic affects not only free schools with a profit-making interest, but it affects all schools. Today, the image of a school sometimes means more than its content. The brand is becoming increasingly important, even for municipal schools and for idea-based free schools that are not driven by the interest to earn money but spend every penny on children's education. Even municipal schools have been discovered in studies trying to avoid pupils who have resource-intensive disabilities such as diabetes or adhd. Market logic affects everyone, and in the end, we're all losers in this school game-- well, all except those who earn the money, of course. The shortest straw draws the children who had the worst chances from the start. Rural village schools and small archipelago schools also get caught up in today's student money system, because when the same money is to be paid per student, it is sometimes impossible to keep the small schools open. Even if the village school is more expensive than the school in the city centre, the municipality must give free school in the city centre more money if it gives the village school more money. This is what's not really playing. Today's marketing school is pushing for big drive and efficiency improvements, and we in the Green Party know that large schools are not suitable for all children. Today's marketing school also requires increased regulation, because we are going to ensure that the limited companies that aim to make as much profit as possible for their owners give children the schooling they are entitled to. We know that the drive to make money does not always go hand in hand with what is best for the students. Just look at the statement from Ulla Hamilton, CEO of the National Association of Free Schools, when the study on school libraries was presented: According to the profit-making free schools, it would be better to have some books in the corridors than real libraries with trained staff. Of course, it is only possible to feel that way if the purpose is to save money. These dedicated rules also make it less freedom for all free schools. The idea-driven actors, who are often innovators in welfare, also have less opportunity to make educational choices that can lead the school forward. To be honest: the reform of free school did not go as we wanted. We in the Green Party wanted freedom of choice and educational diversity. We wanted a school where you raise citizens, not customers. We wanted trust over burdensome control, and we want every kid to have an honest chance to go out nine with both faith in the future and eligibility to high school. We want a diversity of schools, and we want parents to have the opportunity to choose. We want municipalities to be able to afford both the schools in the village and the archipelago and the schools in the suburbs – and to ensure that all children can develop fully. At the same time, ideas-based free schools should be able to contribute innovation in welfare. We want to overcome school segregation and inequality, and I know it takes more to get there. But if we get rid of those who want to maximize their own profits rather than ensure that the children get the best possible education out of the school equation and abolish market management of the school, we are a good way forward. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1488	Madam President, I would like I can start by saying that I agree with Annika Hirvonen that we have a problem with school segregation. So far, we agree. Then there are now I do not know how many reports describe that it is not really school segregation that is Sweden's big problem. Rather, it is the segregation of residents, and it also spills over that we have a school segregation. So what we really need to do something about is the segregation of housing. One way to reduce the risk of school segregation is to really create the free choice of school – to ensure that everyone chooses and that everyone gets information, so that they don't just choose the nearest school. With regard to the rating inflation that several people here are talking about, I would like to say that Linus Sköld's government could have done something about it if it had carried out Parliament's decision from 2015, 2016 and 2017 on digitised national tests with central and external correction. At that time we would have reached the grading inflation, but it is Linus Sköld's government that has not carried out what the Riksdag has already decided. What upsets me is that Annika Hirvonen is standing here claiming that it is about hundreds of millions in profit and other things when it comes to free schools. We have fantastic free schools, and I would like to hear Annika Hirvonen tell me which free schools it is that take out hundreds of millions in profit distributions and who shoes themselves on others. Because that's a myth. What is the benefit of our free schools, says Annika Hirvonen? Is that 10%, 20% or 30%? What does Annika Hirvonen think the profit is among our free schools in Sweden?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1492	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Kristina Axén Olin also admits that school segregation is a major social problem. Like Kristina Axén Olin, I also see that housing segregation accounts for about 70 percent of the reason for school segregation. As a school politician, I want to take responsibility for this problem and do what I can to change. 30% of school segregation depends on how we politicians have rigged the school admission system. 30 percent is within our power-- those of us who work with school issues. That's why I'm lifting school segregation. I want to develop what we want to do to counteract the part relating to school elections. I also believe that we need a common system of school elections. It's supposed to be easy for all parents. When it is time for children to choose a school, you should be able to enter a single portal, and there all schools should be available together with all the information you need about these schools. Everyone should also be able to choose at the same time; no one should have a head start, and no places should be pre-loaded. There should be equal opportunities – a fair school choice for all. I think it's good to start there. However, I do not think that is enough. As long as there are actors who make money on school segregation, there will be different ways to influence which students go to a particular school – through marketing, localisation of the school, etc. As I said, we come a long way with a joint school election, but that is not enough. At the same time, all politicians working with housing and community planning in the municipalities have a responsibility to counteract a segregated society at the level of housing. It's incredibly important.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1497	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen chose not to answer my question. Instead, she can continue to spread these myths that there are hundreds of millions in profit or dividend, or what Annika Hirvonen now meant – it was a bit unclear. I can tell Annika Hirvonen that there are no such gains among the free schools. Quite recently, a report showed that the total margin for free schools is about 2 percent or 21⁄2 percent. We have two free school groups that have made dividends, but those groups had entered with a larger shareholder support already before. In fact, they have still not made any profit. Don't keep spreading myths that hundreds of millions of dollars are being won! Because that's not true. Then I'd like to hear if the Green Party is about to leave the January agreement. Otherwise, I can remind you of what the agreement says: The individual's freedom of choice is a central part of the Swedish welfare model. There is therefore a need for a variety of actors and good conditions for individually driven welfare activities that facilitate the individual's active choices. The government will not pursue or further pursue proposals for a profit ban or other proposals aimed at imposing profit restrictions on private actors in the welfare sector. High quality requirements should be governing. This will be expressed in the 2019 Spring Change Budget. Proposals will be made to ensure that all actors in welfare, regardless of their mode of operation, have equal conditions. .....................................................
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1502	Madam President, I would like I have to say that if someone asks a lot of questions in a reply, it usually takes a little longer to answer them – you don't have time for all the questions. Let's start with the payoff question. It was Academedia that distributed over 100 million in profits during the pandemic; that is the facts. However, as I tried to clarify in my speech, it is not necessarily just about the morality of a few crowns that could have gone to ensure that more children pass school instead go to shareholders abroad. Not only is this the problem, but it is also the driving forces that this market governance gives to all schools. This applies not only to the free schools or to those who make money in the system, but also to the municipal schools and schools of ideas, which are influenced by the market thinking and the governance model that we have created and which we do not think is working. No, we will not leave the January agreement, and there is nothing in my speech to suggest otherwise. However, it is very gratifying that Kristina Axén Olin has read the January Agreement; it is a very important document. Another question that I did not have time to answer in the first reply is the question of digitisation of national tests. That timetable has been slowed down by a new EU judgment, the Schrem II judgment. This is very regrettable. I look forward very much to digitised national tests, not only because it becomes a tool to counteract grade inflation, which is a major problem, but also because it can relieve a lot of correction work when more and more of the tests can be automatically fixed instead of teachers having to do this in terms of the simple tasks.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1506	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that it was fun to hear the Moderates promovering the January Agreement; we are not very used to that. I agree with Annika Hirvonen that there are absolutely things that are not perfect in the school system as it is today. There are problems related to how the system works, including in the case of independent schools and municipal schools. Nevertheless, I think that we should relate to the facts. One of the facts that I think we should clarify is that it is not possible to have a school without a surplus being delivered, because then we will not be able to invest in the future. Even municipalities have to go plus. Another fact is that there are several examples of municipalities that invest according to specific requirements, such as rural perspectives, sparsely populated areas, etc. This is not something that is impossible to do, so it is not correct that you should not do it. A third part that is the fact is that it is directly wrong if we say that we distribute students according to background because of independent schools. In a school where this is based solely on proximity, segregation would be total, and it would only be the parents' wallet and where they can afford to buy a house or apartment or rent a home that would determine which school they can send the children to. Another part that I want to highlight, which seems to be facts for Annika Hirvonen but which I want to question, is the belief that the municipalities were perfect and good before independent schools came in. That is remarkably naive, I would say. To avoid securing special support and many other things that have been discussed today is not something that independent schools have come up with, but these things have been problems in municipalities everywhere for all eternity. On the other hand, it has become easier to get special support in recent years, which is very positive. The Green Party has highlighted many things. A school money reform is needed; we agree on that. But the government that MP is part of has not delivered any proposal. Is it not time to make a proposal instead of just complaining that the current situation is not working?
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1513	Madam President, I would like I wonder if Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen doesn't make himself a little stupider than he needs. The profit debate is not about us being against someone going plus in their budget, but about what happens to that plus. Does it land in the pockets of foreign shareholders, or does it go back to school? Does it lead to the opening of new schools? Does it lead to hiring more teachers or buying more books? What do we know? What do children need in schools? This is what the profit debate is about. We in the Green Party have proposed neither the abolition of the school elections nor a total principle of proximity. There were several things in the speech that I have to say were not really about what I was talking about. You are welcome to repeat, Niels, if there was anything else I had to deny that I simply did not have time to write down in this cavalcade of misinterpretations.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1515	Madam President, I would like My honourable colleague asked if I could specify what she has not responded to. I would like to start by saying that what Annika Hirvonen has not answered is a very clear question that I asked: why has the government not come up with a proposal to reform school money? We agree that this should happen, but no government proposal has been made. If I remember correctly, Annika Hirvonen's party is part of the government – although I may be a little stupid sometimes, Madam President, I think that this should be understood correctly. I would like to hear from Annika Hirvonen what makes it possible to stand in the Chamber and complain that the school money system is not working properly but not possible for the government in which you are delivering a proposal. My opinion is that it's actions that make a difference in school, not words.
i-8499341d8cce5d8d-1517	Madam President, I would like What Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen is raising here about the reform of school money is an incredibly important issue. I wish it had been at the top of the school section of the January agreement. Now the government has been busy implementing the January agreement and also managed the pandemic. The school has been incredibly influenced by the coronapndemine, and this has caused several of the planned processes to be delayed. Nevertheless, I hope that we in this House will be able to vote on a reformed school money system before the next elections, and I hope that we will then also have a majority in favour of it. There are some really good parts in the study that Björn Åstrand has submitted that concern school money, including the fact that municipal schools are not compensated in the system for their school responsibilities. This is therefore the responsibility of always offering children a place of education near where they live, regardless of whether the child is newly relocated and lives at the far end of the forest or, for that matter, if an independent school goes bankrupt. I hope we will agree on that proposal.
