i-26bab3612af8008c-10	Madam President, I would like Our electoral system is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. That is what makes us all sitting here with a legitimacy that allows us to make decisions democratically on all the affairs of the empire, and that is the subject of today's debate. Some changes are being made with this. It is about our election committees and foreign authorities being given responsibility for posting ballots in the polling stations. It is about the election authority being given an explicit responsibility for creating and distributing a training material for our voters to be trained so that they do their job as galant as in previous years. This makes it clear that, as a voter in a polling station, it is possible to reject people who interfere with the order in a way that creates problems for voice reception. This means clarification that each vote should be made in private so that there is no doubt as to where the limits of its own electoral secret are. This means opportunities for disabled people to be helped to prepare their vote if that possibility is needed. You can request the assistance of one of the voters. But you can also ask for help from your own assistant, where you take with you a person in whom you have confidence. Madam President, I would like However, I would like to problematise a little on this last point. An important part of the report, of the bill on which the report was based and of the investigation on which the bill was based – an investigation of which several members of the Constitutional Committee were a part – was about combating so-called group and family voting. Unfortunately, an increasingly clear feature of the Swedish election procedure is that we get situations where there is more than one person behind the foreclosures. An experience can occur where you do not feel completely free to choose exactly what to vote for. That is why the point about a vote being made in private was very important. When we open up to the disabled to be helped to do so despite the need for privacy, it must be done gently. One fact of this is that we do not want to end up in a situation where a disabled person must somehow prove his or her disability or disability. If we were to end up there, we would end up in a very distasteful situation where one could potentially have a disability or a disability but still be denied help, because one cannot lead in proof that one has that particular variation or reduction. Instead, it is up to each individual voter to decide whether you need this help. That, Madam President, is also, in my opinion, something that means that you can be put under pressure to state that you have a disability or a disability that you do not actually have, in order for a person who wants to pressure you to vote on something you would not otherwise have voted for to be allowed to go with you behind the foreclosures. Otherwise, some kind of consequences, social reprisals, disappointments or other worries threaten the individual. Therefore, it was the investigation's suggestion that if one's own assistant is to accompany behind the foreclosures and prepare the vote, this should also be under the supervision of a voter to ensure that there are no irregularities behind the foreclosures. The government unilaterally chose, after the investigation had submitted its report, to deviate from the agreement that existed within the framework of the investigation that formed the basis of the bill and to remove this requirement that there should be some form of supervision from a voter. As a result, when the government submitted its proposal to Parliament for consideration here today, it was not included. The Constitutional Committee announces to the government by a large majority that it needs to be reviewed and that we need to get to grips with it. In addition to that, Madam President, the investigation made a suggestion that an individual assistant accompanying the foreclosures should be subject to a duty of professional secrecy. It is a professional secrecy that means that you are not allowed to disclose the electoral secret to the person you are helping. That is something that I think most people think is completely natural. It did not follow all the way through the Government Office to the Riksdag. The government did not put forward any proposal for such confidentiality. Mr M a n referred to the fact that it would be too much of a commitment and too complicated for the assistant to understand the consequences of breaching the obligation of professional secrecy which is subject to criminal liability. We believe that it is difficult to underestimate ordinary people who help people behind the foreclosures. We believe that it is absolutely self-evident, at least for most of us, that this is something that we must keep secret and that there can also reasonably be consequences of betraying a person in a vulnerable position that we are there to help. The fact that there is criminal liability linked to this is of course nothing that should go unnoticed. We believe that there should be and that it should also be informed about it. It would be another clear barrier to those who do not want well and who are not behind the foreclosures to help someone with a disability, but who may be there to exert pressure on someone to vote for something that it would not otherwise have voted for. With that, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 8 and otherwise in accordance with the report.
i-26bab3612af8008c-27	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to call for the approval of our Amendment No 1 in the KU6 report. However, I would like to make it clear that we naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, although I do not support them in my speech. Issues relating to our electoral system should be dealt with with with thoughtfulness and preferably on the basis of a clear and broad political consensus. The fact that the committee has been able to agree on an announcement regarding the presence of voters in the use of representation is therefore very positive. However, we would have liked the government to have listened more closely to the interim report of the election inquiry. The Committee's results were unambiguous. In several areas, the current system of voice reception needs to be reviewed. The Committee therefore made a number of specific proposals on how this can be done, with a view precisely to strengthening the protection of voters in the reception of votes. The government has accepted some of these proposals but has chosen to water down others. The government's prudence might have been justified if the parliamentary committee did not agree. It now appears that the precautionary principle is being abandoned rather than respected. For example, we believe, like the Committee, that one of the voters present should be chairman. This would facilitate work, clarify the division of responsibilities and ensure a high and equivalent quality in the voting process. The messy and inappropriate behaviour of a few people must not interfere with the democratic process of other citizens. In order to strengthen the protection of voters in the reception of votes, the Swedish Democrats would have liked the following Committee proposal to have been approved: ..................................................... Like the investigation's proposal, we believe that, for the sake of clarification, a provision should be included in the electoral law which explicitly states that the reception of votes is public, unless otherwise provided for in the electoral law or other law. In order to protect voters from undue electoral influence, we believe that the propaganda ban should be extended to the area closest to the polling station. But, Mr President, the most fundamental issue concerns the electoral ballot system itself. The Swedish Democrats have for many years raised the issue of vulnerabilities with the current electoral ballot system and contributed with effective and constructive proposals. Over the years, the government has tried to alleviate the shortcomings of the electoral secret, among other things, and many of the issues raised by the election inquiry originate from the ballot papers. However, when actors such as the National Audit Office and the Election Authority flag, it should be beyond any reasonable doubt that the current way of thinking that each party has unique ballot papers needs to be reviewed in favour of a more robust and sustainable order. The election authority's experience report from the European Parliament elections in 2019 shows that the question of ballot papers has become an unsolved problem in the electoral administration where the basic problem, i.e. the large number of ballot papers, is never solved. As long as Sweden has so many different ballots that are presented and distributed in different ways, different problems will arise. Therefore, the election authority's assessment remains that the election ballot system is the most important thing to change when it comes to Swedish elections. ..................................................... If problems are to be overcome, a thorough electoral ballot reform is needed, starting to look at a system of a common ballot. We welcome the fact that other parties now appear to be joining the same line. Whether the ballot papers are called neutral or common, the main thing is that the change is in line with the recommendations in the Swedish National Audit Office's report and what the Election Authority clearly highlighted in its 2018 election experience report: that one ballot per election and person is particularly considered. In conclusion, as I mentioned earlier, we welcome the fact that the committee has chosen to follow the Committee's proposals on the presence of voters in the use of voters. However, despite and beyond this, we believe it is self-evident that the confidentiality of voters' representatives should be introduced as it is part of the package of measures to secure and protect the secret of elections for those who need help from others in order to exercise their right to vote.
i-26bab3612af8008c-40	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I support the Centre Party's reservation 2, the electoral ballot system and the provision of ballot papers. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal. The KU6 report, which we are debating today, is about a part of the Swedish electoral system. The electoral procedure itself, where well over 6 million Swedes vote in Sweden and in the world, is a central nervous system in our democracy. Generally speaking, we have confidence in the procedure. We trust the integrity of voters and that it is handled correctly all the way up to the election result, regardless of the outcome. However, we have seen an increase in protests against individual events, complaints of electoral fraud, incidents that create uncertainty, queuing, discord, incidents at the sorting of ballot papers at polling stations, and more. In this context, I would like to point out that the Swedish International Liberal Centre and Democracy Volunteers in their reports after the 2014 and 2018 general elections say that observations have been made that so-called group voting is relatively common in Sweden. Which party the individual votes for is the individual's business and nobody else's. The fact that groups stand behind the election screen and vote means that the electoral secret is not protected. The organisations mentioned have several recommendations, such as keeping the number of people in the polling station at a reasonable level and providing information on how to prepare their ballot papers and the procedures involved. Mr President, I would like to We need to equip our electoral system and strengthen the protection of our voters and electoral functionaries. We have seen how other democracies had problems in connection with the polling stations, either real or alleged. In both cases, it creates rifts in confidence in democracy. We should not be naive about either the phenomenon of group voting or the interest of undemocratic forces in manipulating the elections. If uncertainty is created, whether actual or alleged, about the legitimacy of the elections, it is directly detrimental to confidence in democracy. That is why it is so important to protect and create the conditions for voters, voters, polling stations and counting, as well as for election boards, county administrative boards and the electoral authority, who have to put together the results of the elections. In the report, we propose that the electoral committees and the foreign authorities take over responsibility for posting ballots in all polling stations. The electoral authority should be given an explicit responsibility to produce educational material before each election. Those who do not follow the instructions of the voters should be invited to leave the premises temporarily, and it should be clarified that the voters themselves should prepare their ballot papers separately. We also say that provision should be made for a voter to be present when a voter is assisted in voting but that an evaluation in the 2022 elections should first be carried out. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to investigate a modified, reinforced and improved electoral ballot system. During the 2018 elections, 673 million ballots were printed. I believe that there are about 100 ballots per voter. The election authority has raised the issue of the ballot system in experience reports after the last three general elections. The Swedish National Audit Office has also pressed the question. There are a number of arguments for enhanced protection of electoral secrecy, easier voting and more. In view of this, I also understand what the bill says about the fact that it is a very radical measure and that it is a system that the parties recognise. All of this is understandable, but it does not mean that a proper investigation cannot be carried out that looks at how the electoral ballot system can be improved. However, changes in electoral systems – it may be in the case of banknotes or other – must be made with good consensus and step by step. Personally, I think it is important that the parties work to raise the status of the local electoral committees – that the parties nominate the best possible members and that they ensure in different ways that they make visible the value and importance of the electoral committees to democracy. We know that the electoral committees are not always at the top of elected representatives' wish lists after the elections. I think this is important. Finally, my tribute goes to all those electoral workers throughout the country who, on a voluntary basis, are working to ensure what is a critical point in our democracy: that the individual electorate should be allowed to cast his or her vote on his or her party and on the candidate whom he considers to be the best to fulfil the duties of elected representative.
i-26bab3612af8008c-52	Mr President, I would like to Christmas is indeed a time of wonder, for now I will quote the Bible: It is easier to see the mote in your neighbor's eye than the beam in your own. Was that right, Tuve? I hope so.
i-26bab3612af8008c-54	My first election observation many years ago was out in the Armenian countryside. It is probably the most important trip I have made during my time as a Member of Parliament, partly for the work that was done there and then, and partly for the experiences that I later brought home. Suddenly I became aware of how naive I had been before when I handed out ballots in our Swedish election cottages. Suddenly I could see flashes in our anyway, it should be said, very robust election systems. With the experience of these slightly more fragile democracies – let us call them so – I also came to understand the real, fundamental importance of the shyst and secure processes in which voters are guaranteed an irreproachable vote per person. Democracy means about popular power, and our representative democracy is based precisely on regular elections that people trust. Although the Swedish system, as I have said, very well meets high standards of legal certainty, transparency and resistance to manipulation, there are weaknesses that we have observed, both in terms of electoral secrecy and in terms of electoral security. Let me take a few examples. People with visual impairment are unable to vote in person with a full electoral secret, something we take for granted. We know that family voting, where several people at the same time support the election screen and together prepare their election envelopes, occurs. The possibility of our ballot papers being mixed and manipulated, I think, may have been the victims of all of us in the election process. That is why the Liberals have been working for a long time to review the electoral arrangements. We welcome the interim report submitted by the parliamentary election inquiry, which forms the basis of the government's proposal. We also welcome the ready-made legislative proposals that are now in place. However, we remain critical that the government is strongly opposed to a broader review of the Swedish electoral ballot system. The Swedish system of one ballot per party is rare, and it was in full parliamentary agreement that the 2020 election inquiry in its interim report pointed out that such a review could be included in the evaluation to be made after 2022 elections, something that both the Election Authority and the Swedish National Audit Office have proposed repeatedly. In the light of this, it is remarkable that the government is not responding now either. Then it is somewhat more gratifying that the Constitutional Committee has found a more positive way forward than that proposed by the government in relation to the proposal that voters who, because of disabilities or the like, are unable to take their ballot papers themselves in the foreclosed place where they are on request should be assisted by the voters. In addition to the voter, the voter may also take the assistance of another person, such as a friend, a relative or a guide. I understand those who raise a warning finger and think that this can be a violation of privacy for people with disabilities. At least it made me think about one lap extra. Nevertheless, I do not think that this should happen at all, provided that everyone understands why this is being done and that the voters act with the professionalism they display in everything else they do. After all, the background to the Committee's proposals was the problem of group voting or controlling behaviour which undermines the individual voter's secret. The proposal does not require the voter to check which ballot is placed in the envelope, but only the presence of a voter to ensure that the electoral document is carried out in accordance with the voter's wishes and that, in the vulnerable situation of hiring another person, the voter is not subject to persuasion or undue control. Mr President, I would like to As usual, the Constitutional Committee is fairly in agreement. However, there are certain points on which we wish to reserve ourselves from the Liberals. This is about reservation number 3, which I propose to approve. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal. I started with a Bible quote and may end with a saying: Remember that bad politicians are chosen by good citizens who do not vote! Let us ensure that all citizens are allowed to vote. With this I wish Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
i-26bab3612af8008c-66	Mr President, I would like to This year we celebrate with pomp and boast all over Sweden to celebrate democracy. Let us pause for a moment and be proud of how we have promoted our democracy and my individual right to vote as I wish. Having said that, therefore, it is enhanced protection for voters in voting reception, the KU6, that we are dealing with here today. We choose representatives of both the church and the European Parliament. It is something special to both see and understand the full breadth of what it actually means. Every four years we go to the polling stations to vote for municipalities and regions around the country, but also to vote on which representatives are to stand right here where I stand today. Mr President, I would like to I stand here because I have gained confidence, a confidence built on the fact that people have cast a vote and believe in me, this through our electoral system. That's a lot of what the KU6 is all about: maintaining – it's obvious – but also strengthening confidence so that people know confidence in the way we have jointly agreed to apply in our democracy and to use it as a guide when it comes to the voting process. Mr President, I would like to I had the privilege, together with many here in the Chamber, to sit in the 2020 election inquiry, whose report forms the basis for what is being debated here today. The study can be summed up briefly by the fact that it showed a broad consensus on the challenges that exist. We had to take part in the input of both organisations and experts into the questions in order to gain a deeper understanding of what it is actually about. We have touched on issues such as who is responsible for having the ballot papers available in the polling stations. Who's doing this? Who bears the main responsibility? What is the role of the Election Committee? Is it something we dust off every four or five years? It's not like that. The mission to the Elections Board is much larger and much more important, as was reflected by my center party colleague here earlier. We have also said that at each election, the Election Authority will present a training material regarding the election in order for our voters to feel as confident as possible in actually being able to carry out their mission. Mr President, I would like to Several before me have addressed several interesting areas and challenges that are addressed in the KU6. We in the Constitutional Committee have had fruitful discussions, as most of the time, and together we have what we have before us here today. Mr President, I would like to In 270 days my grandfather will stand at the mirror, put on his tie, and proudly go to the polling station to make his voice heard. He, like me, is proud of what we as a country have achieved and have as a system today. Having said that, I am happy to agree with the slogan: Long live democracy! I therefore call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be endorsed in the KU6 report.
i-26bab3612af8008c-75	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore discussing proposals to strengthen the protection of voters in the reception of votes. The report contains several elements that will make it easier for voters to vote without having to reveal what or who the voter is voting for. Several Members before me have explained the content as a whole. I would therefore like to dwell on the point of representation of voters, where the committee proposes an announcement to the government. That everyone should be able to vote without revealing which party or person to vote for is obvious to most of us. But it is also the case that some of us need help in choosing ballots and preparing the vote. There must then be a balance between the principles of secret voting and the possibility of voting at all. Both principles are important, but we have to do something about one. If the electoral secret is to be fully held against everyone else, voting rights will be limited for all of us who need help. If we do not allow those who need help to receive it, they cannot exercise their right to vote. The government's proposal is based on proposals from a parliamentary committee in which I and several members of the KU were present. That committee put forward some further proposals that the government has chosen not to proceed with, and the majority of the committee has found that to be acceptable, except for the point on representation of voters. The committee would like to see a provision such as that proposed by the Committee, but only after an evaluation of the situation in the forthcoming 2022 elections has been carried out. The Committee's proposal was that there should always be a voter with whom an individual voter is helped to select ballots or to prepare his vote. The voter who needs help can ask a voter or any other person to whom it trusts to help. However, the Committee's view was that a voter should also be present and that it was to ensure that the accompanying person does not affect the person who is to vote in a particular way. In examining the Committee's proposal, there were a number of consultative bodies, including representatives of the malfunctioning movement, who felt that there was no basis for assuming that so-called undue influence in this context was actually a problem. It also called for further analysis of how the Committee's proposals would affect people with disabilities and their ability to effectively exercise their right to vote. The government then chose not to proceed with the proposal. I have a great deal of sympathy for that and agree with the funkti onsbardstörelsen one and others that this is not sufficiently illuminated. Since the announcement by the committee means that the government will come back after an evaluation of the 2022 elections and is therefore not a sharp proposal to implement the Committee's proposals straight away, I have chosen not to reserve myself. On the other hand, I have made a specific statement stating that it is important for any new proposals to benefit those concerned and for comments to be drawn from the problem of disability to be taken into account. I assume that the views expressed, from those directly concerned and others in the evaluation, will also be taken into account when considering whether additional provisions should be introduced and how they should be designed. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal. I would also like to wish the President a Merry Christmas!
i-26bab3612af8008c-83	Mr President, I would like to It is not traditional for us in the KU debates to ask for a reply, but I have a question I would like to ask. It's just this thing with the assistant behind the foreclosures. There is also another point in this where the investigation was unanimous but where no progress has been made, and that is the confidentiality of a person who is an assistant. I think there are many of us who would have found it easier to digest that you have to bring someone behind the foreclosures and there is no monitoring of whether things go right if there had been a duty of secrecy with criminal liability. My question to Mia Sydow Mölleby is: why choose to leave also the point that the committee supported when all the possibility of controlling that things go right behind the foreclosures disappears with the government's proposal?
i-26bab3612af8008c-86	Mr President, I would like to The reason why the government did not come forward with the proposal on confidentiality was that it saw difficulties in how it would be ensured that those who joined were given the right information, how the voter should decide and then deliver the information in a good way and how this could then be followed up. This was also something that was dealt with quite a lot from the consultation bodies. It is very clear in the bill why they did not proceed with it, and it was also with reference to the consultation bodies that have made comments. The Committee had several proposals which the government has not taken forward. It is above all a question of having received comments on further reading. The KU is usually very careful that when a proposal is made it should be properly prepared. Investigation is one thing. It then goes on to consult, and the relevant bodies speak. The matter of confidentiality has been raised in the past, and there were objections to it. We had it up on the committee, and as you say, it was unanimous, but there have been comments in the consultation round, and I think it is good that the government is listening to the consultation rounds. Otherwise, I don't understand what we're gonna do with them.
i-26bab3612af8008c-90	Mr President, I would like to One way to listen to the consultation rounds is to develop the proposals and clarify and clarify them. Such a way forward could have been to ensure, for example, that there are procedures in place to ensure precisely the information to the personal assistants and that the voters have the necessary skills and training. Furthermore, it is not for nothing that the report calls on the electoral authority to produce training material for voters in particular, where this particular detail could of course have been an important part. I still wonder: why remove virtually every security mechanism to ensure electoral secrecy and free elections for those who are assisted by an assistant behind the foreclosures? With regard to the balance that Mia Sydow Mölleby described between the possibility of voting at all and the electoral secret, we had a balance that meant that there would be an opportunity to vote and that there would be additional security mechanisms to ensure the free vote and the electoral secret. However, once those safeguards have been removed by the government in order to put the bill in place, the balance will be upset. This cannot be allowed to go unnoticed, so I ask the question again: why not let go of both of these points and why not back up the committee's announcement to the full that this must somehow be dealt with?
i-26bab3612af8008c-93	Mr President, I would like to I suspect Mr Ottoson did not hear what I said. I have not reserved for this announcement, but I think it is important to look at it. But then you should also listen to what the disability movement thinks. What do those particularly concerned think, and how do you view it? Such an evaluation may also give rise to views that need to be taken into account in further work. They may touch on a number of issues, but my position concerns a clarification that we must also talk to those who are involved here and not assume that we have originally thought right in an investigation. We don't all have the same needs. That is why we want specific rules. Then, of course, you also have to listen to those whom it touches. That is what I am saying in my particular opinion, which is that I think it is important for this investigation to be carried out as the committee has said that it wants 2022 and that, after that, it should be possible to come back with proposals to strengthen the voting ability and the secret of the person in need of help. It is also important that those who need help can get it from people they trust, that it is done in a way that makes sense for the person in question and that it looks good in such reviews that we have had in Sweden. One can imagine that there are those who might think that it is a bit strange that we in Sweden would then introduce that there should be an authority person behind the screen. Perhaps you could have some views on this in an election observation. It is important to weigh several parts against each other, and there are several different problems in this context. I think it's good that an investigation is being conducted.
i-26bab3612af8008c-98	Mr President, I would like to Tina Acketoft of the Liberals fulfilled the good old custom and reinforced her speech with a quote and a saying, and I do not want to be worse. M an can render a poem, a Bible word or a saying. I would like to quote Göran Persson, the great leader of the Social Democrats. In 1997 he used a phrase from a poem and said that the most beautiful words he knows in the Swedish language is ..................................................... The finest thing we have in democracy is, of course, a vote. And the finest votes we have in our country are the whales. The elections are extremely central. There is therefore a inertia in the constitutional committee's way of making changes to the electoral law, which is necessary. We seek consensus, because it should be as stable and legal as possible and as widely accepted and safe as it can be. It's to protect democracy. There are good suggestions. Sometimes it is a reservation, and sometimes it is a special opinion. They should be accepted as good proposals. But until general consensus is reached, the proposals, proposals, ideas and thoughts that may help us in the process of getting an even better electoral law, but here we are seeking consensus. That's what matters. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal to amend the Election Act. Furthermore, the Constitutional Committee proposes that the Riksdag announce to the Government that there should be provision for a voter to be present when a voter is assisted in the vote or in taking his ballots behind the foreclosure, but that an evaluation in the 2022 elections should first be carried out. The legislative proposals that we put forward and give our confirmation include the following: The electoral committees and the foreign authorities take over responsibility for posting all the ballot papers in the polling stations. The election authority is given an explicit responsibility to produce training material on the election before each election. The material shall be provided to the county administrative boards and electoral committees. It is made clear that those who do not comply with the instructions of the voters may be invited to leave the polling station temporarily, if this is essential for the performance of the voice reception. It is clarified that the voter should select his or her ballots and prepare his or her votes in private. Voters who, due to disabilities or the like, are unable to take their ballot papers themselves in the foreclosed place where the ballot papers are placed shall be assisted, upon request, by the voters. Such a voter may also hire another person to help him or her with this. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the proposal in the report. Well, I'd like to say one more thing. I wish you a Merry Christmas to the committee and the cabinet, which are doing an enormous amount of work to enable us to function, and Merry Christmas to the House's office and the staff here and to the President.
i-26bab3612af8008c-110	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by telling you that Marianne Fundahn would have been here to discuss the situation of disabled people in the labour market. I'm afraid she's fallen ill. That is why we are not going to talk about that very much today. I would also like to make it clear that we Social Democrats are abstaining from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in Category 14 and are referring instead to the special opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. This is because the Government's proposal for a financial framework has been rejected by the Riksdag. It is worth mentioning, however, that in this area too, the government's draft budget forms the basis of the policy. I would also like to take this opportunity to support the proposal contained in the AU6 report. Mr President, I would like to It is people's work that creates prosperity and prosperity. The job at best gives us freedom, personal development and pride. Our position in the world of work affects how we live in other parts of life, our health, our financial security and our status. It is therefore quite natural that the jobs have been and are an absolutely central part of our social democratic policy. The goal has been formulated in different ways: work for everyone, full employment or anyone who can work should work. It expresses an understanding that everyone needs to be part of the working community, both for their own sake and for the sake of our common interest. However, it is not enough to have a job; it should also be jobs that provide sufficient income and have employment and working conditions that contribute to security, development and health. In recent years, as elsewhere in society, developments in the labour market have moved in different directions. Employment is record high while a large group of people have been unemployed for a very long time and employers find it difficult to find the right skills. Wages have been raised for the vast majority. Work environment and work content have improved for large groups, while more and more people are insecure and too many are sick or worn out by the job. The government's recipe for a well-functioning labour market is more jobs, secure employment, a good working environment and a working life free from cheating, exploitation and crime. It is a sustainable working life for both women and men and better opportunities for skills development in order to be able to develop in the job you already have or to be able to change paths. It is strong parties who take responsibility for the rules of the game and achieve both competitiveness and decent jobs. It is financial security for those who lose their jobs and active labour market policies that both strengthen the individual's chances of getting into work and contribute to the supply of skills in the business sector and in the public sector. Mr President, I would like to During the pandemic, Arbetsförmedlingen has been severely strained as the number of alerted and enrolled has increased enormously. Many in the agency have worked hard and made fantastic efforts to complete the mission in a very challenging time. The Public Employment Service is the actor responsible for state labour market policies, which will contribute to the objectives of full employment and skills provision. It must be present throughout the country, either with its own premises, in the form of a central government service centre or in collaboration with municipalities. The Authority shall collaborate with both municipalities and other actors, both at strategic and operational level, to meet local labour needs and to provide the right support to the unemployed and employers. The Public Employment Service will continue to be a large and important authority with a broad range of actions that can be offered to the unemployed and employers. It is notable that the right-wing parties are reducing the allocation for labour market training compared with the government's budget. This is unfortunate, because an increasing number of unemployed people would need precisely shorter vocational training to get to work. The most prominent common factor for the group with the most difficulty in getting a hold of the labour market is precisely a low level of education. At the same time, skills shortages are one of the most important obstacles for businesses to grow and for municipalities and regions to increase the quality of their welfare. It is also regrettable that the right-wing Conservatives want to abolish the extra services, which have contributed not least to the valuable work experience and language training of newly arrived women, not infrequently in combination with or in preparation for vocational training in the health and social care sector. Indeed, the fact that an intervention does not directly lead to unsubsidised work is not the same as its inefficiency, and conversely, a high transition to regular work is not necessarily an effective measure. For many with obstacles to work, the way to a regular job is long, and an extra service can be an important first step on that journey. Mr President, I would like to When you listen to representatives from the right-wing parties, you can easily get the impression that everything in the labour market is going in the wrong direction. I would therefore like to devote some of my speech to nurturing that picture with some statistics. Let us start with employment versus unemployment. Unemployment is a measure of how many people are looking for a job but have not yet received one. If the goal, as for us Social Democrats, is for everyone who can work to work, employment is likely to be a better measure, because it is measured in relation to the entire adult population. Sweden is very good in terms of employment rates, both compared to the rest of the EU and in an international comparison. Sweden's employment rate was good 80 per cent even during the pandemic year 2020. The EU average was 72, 4. One group that has rightly received special attention is women born abroad. We need to do more in many different areas in order for more foreign-born women to get to work. However, perspective is important. The employment rate of foreign-born women in Sweden was 58.9 per cent in 2020, while that of all women in the EU was 66.7 per cent. By comparison, the employment rate in the United States for the whole population was about the same level as it does for foreign-born women in Sweden – 59.2 per cent. Nor is it the case that Sweden stands out very clearly compared to other countries in terms of foreign-born women's employment. Does it take longer and longer for newly arrived women to get to work, as is often suggested in the debate? No, actually not at all – quite the opposite. In the group of newly arrived women in 2008, 12.4 per cent were employed after four years in Sweden. In the group that came to our country in 2014 it was instead 28 per cent. Let us take a look at the unemployment statistics. Last time the Moderates were in government, September 2014, the unemployment rate in Sweden was 7.9 per cent. In November 2021, after a year and a half with a pandemic that hit hard on jobs, 7.2 per cent were enrolled as unemployed at the Employment Service. We can now address the question of how many people are supplied with social benefits and benefits. The right will often argue that something is increasing in scope, but it is also not in line with reality. In 2014, there were approximately 850 000 people in that group. By 2019 it had decreased by around 100,000 to around 750 000 people, despite a large increase in population over the years in between. The number was highest in the early 1990s, when there were more than 1.1 million people. So, what do I want to say about this statistical rhumb mix? That everything's fine and that we're happy? Not at all. Our goal is for everyone who can work to work, and that goal is far from ours. However, I think that the image that everything goes wrong is quite wrong. Much indicates that the reforms implemented by the government in recent years, including strengthening the education focus and strengthening of welfare, are delivering positive results. That the right always wants to lower salaries and salaries for more people to work is ideologically conditioned. In reality, however, people get jobs when demand for products and services from the business community increases, when welfare gains more resources and when people can acquire the skills demanded by employers. In order to tackle the worrying increase in long-term unemployment, more individually adapted active measures are needed to meet employers' needs, together with calls for active participation of those outside the labour market in order to increase their work capacity. Plikt but also right – it is Social Democratic labour market policy.
i-26bab3612af8008c-130	Mr President, I would like to When I hear Anna Johansson's speech, I understand that the fact that Sweden has one of the highest unemployment rates in the European Union and that long-term unemployment is a record high is actually to be regarded as a health sign in the world of Social Democrats. I really have many questions, but I have to put them into practice to three. I would like to go through what Anna Johansson usually highlights as the government's major measures that will make a difference to the uniquely high Swedish unemployment. Let me start with the issue of extra services, which is a uniquely expensive and inefficient measure which has so far been spent on 12 billion. Those who get real unsubsidised jobs after this are less than 4 percent, which means that every job you get after an extra service costs taxpayers SEK 7 million. In what way, Anna Johansson, is this a successful policy from the government? Then there is the education obligation. Only one in ten, 10 per cent, of those who are subject to education and training requirements also receive regular training. 90% of those who are subject to education and training are therefore not in regular education at all. How is this successful for government policy? The third question concerns the intensive year in which less than 340 people participate. The core of the intensive year, i.e. the intensive practice, covers less than 40 people throughout Sweden. In what way is this a sign of success for your government, Anna Johansson?
i-26bab3612af8008c-134	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mats Green for the questions. There is a great deal left to do in Swedish labour market policy. We have a pretty long way to go before we can say that all people who can work also have a job. But during the seven years with the government Löfven and now Magdalena Andersson's government, labour market policy has been changed, from passive acceptance of support to active efforts with an increasingly clear education focus. We have also made changes in other systems. The establishment programme is now a labour market policy programme, just like everyone else, with the same demands and expectations as for other unemployed people. We have re-established parental insurance to motivate more foreign-born women to get to work quickly. We have taken a quite wide range of measures. We have also made it possible for Arbetsförmedlingen to allocate to education in recent years. When I look at Mats Green's draft budget in this area, I see that the level of ambition is reduced in terms of how many people are going to attend labour market training. Nor can I see any investment in adult education, which is being dealt with in another area of expenditure. It could be thought that you do not think that working life education is a particularly good form but think that people should go to Komvux instead. But there is no money there either. It is therefore de facto a smaller number of training places. Why do the Moderates want to meet increased skills needs with less labour market training? I find that an interesting question to be answered. When new reforms are launched, it is clear that it takes some time before everything is in place, especially when it happens during a pandemic year. There is absolute potential for improvement, including in terms of getting full momentum in the intensive year. But it is a rather new measure. Let's evaluate it once it's been up and running for a few years.
i-26bab3612af8008c-138	Mr President, I would like to Anna Johansson says there's a lot left to do. Yeah, I guess it's an understatement. Sweden is the only country in the EU where unemployment has increased since 2014, when you took over government power. A solemn promise was made that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. It was the opposite – before the pandemic. Then we were in fifth place from the bottom. Now we're in fourth place from the bottom. I note that I do not get any answers whatsoever as to why less than 10% of those who are subject to education and training receive regular training and why less than 4% of those who have an extra job then get a job. If the extra services are an example of a successful measure, Anna Johansson, what is an example of a failed measure?
i-26bab3612af8008c-140	Mr President, I would like to The extra services have never been intended primarily to provide a fast way to work for people close to the labour market. The additional services are for a group that is far from the labour market, which has difficulty in obtaining unsubsidised employment and which very often has short previous work experience and low educational levels. Very many people who start extra services do so in the health and social care professions within municipalities or other areas. They start their way to regular work – which does not need to be a direct consequence of an additional service. Instead, it may then be that you go into vocational training. I think it is good to provide opportunities even for those who are very far removed from the labour market. What other options does Mats Green's party have to help people who are far from the labour market get to work?
i-26bab3612af8008c-142	Mr President, I would like to Anna Johansson devotes almost all of her speech to describing the vulnerable situation of foreign-born women, a situation they have ended up in because of Anna Johansson's government policy. An irresponsible immigration policy has created the vulnerable situation for these women itself and is now trying to shift responsibility to other people. The fault lies therefore with Anna Johansson and her government, and in her speech she does not mention in a word how she views the Swedish employees who go to work every day and who will pay this whole process and exclusion with their tax money. What is really wrong with this budget for Swedish employees? Anna Johansson says that we reduce subsidies and salaries. Where in the budget does it say that we are cutting wages? We're keeping a strong unemployment fund. We invest more than the government in the work environment work, both to the Swedish Work Environment Agency and to Mynak, an authority that has received increased resources to be able to research. I would therefore like to hear what is so bad in this budget for Swedish employees who go to work every day.
i-26bab3612af8008c-146	Mr President, I would like to I think that Magnus Persson might have written his line before I had given my speech. Since I did not say that this budget is bad for employees, the question is therefore a little difficult to answer. Johan Andersson from the Social Democrats will in a little while be immersed in the issues relating to the working environment. I also mentioned at the beginning of my speech the importance of good jobs, free from cheating and crime, and so on. I would like to put a counter-question to Magnus Persson. How does Magnus Persson think that, for example, elderly care, public transport and industry in Sweden would do without all those who were born in other countries and who every day go to work with sometimes rather poor wages, just like others who work in those sectors, and who make sure that this society works and goes around? What efforts does Magnus Persson want to make to ensure that those foreign-born women who do not yet have a firm foundation in the labour market actually get there? That would be very interesting to hear. We didn't get any answers in the discussion last Monday about establishment, so it would be really exciting to hear what Magnus Persson has for solutions to the challenge that it means that so many foreign-born women don't have a job.
i-26bab3612af8008c-150	Mr President, I would like to It is quite easy to answer that question: we must now clean up after the breakdown of the Social Democrats in integration policy and immigration policy. Firstly, we must have a stop to asylum in order to give all these foreign-born women a chance to become part of society. You've never given them the chance. You have brought here x a thousand immigrants who are going to have education and then work. Then you bring in x thousand more immigrants, and what do you do with the others? Well, then you'll put them in dependency, because now there's no time for them. It is your policy that has created this situation, and now others have to sort it out. I have a small question about the budget and that we are reducing subsidies and salaries. Where in the budget does it say that we are cutting wages? We respect the Swedish model. For us, it is the parties who negotiate on wages, not the European Union, nor anyone else. For us, it is the parties who do so. Therefore, please answer the question as to where in the budget it says that we want to reduce wages in Sweden. One more thing about labour immigration: can we trust the Social Democrats? Will the demands be tightened this time, or will you go out with your butt between your legs after negotiations with the Green Party or other parties that have been made every choice since 2006?
i-26bab3612af8008c-155	Mr President, I would like to The last question I might be able to ask back. In the company Magnus Persson may find it more difficult to find solutions to this particular problem. I can assure you that we Social Democrats always have the ambition to keep track of labour migration. The mess that prevails now is definitely not Social Democratic policy, but something that was introduced in 2008, something that I think Magnus Persson is well aware of. I note that Magnus Persson has no ambition whatsoever to create conditions for women born abroad in the labour market, nor any political proposals that would facilitate integration. Magnus Persson lives in the delusion that you can solve this with some kind of magic trick. That is not the case, but action is needed here, and we are prepared to put those measures in place. We do, and we see an increase in the participation of women born abroad. It is gratifying, and I hope that Magnus Persson will also see that it is positive.
i-26bab3612af8008c-157	Mr President, I would like to It was a remarkable speech by Social Democrat Anna Johansson on the situation on the labour market. It becomes even more incomprehensible and far from reality when the Social Democrats try to give the impression that they have succeeded not only in labour market policy but also in integration policy. There, the Liberals have spent decades chasing you and shooting you in front of us after the start-up efforts. It was we who introduced the establishment reform and not you. You did not have a national integration policy. The first thing the Social Democrats did in 2014 was to abolish the Ministry of Integration. Mr President, I would like to After four years in Sweden, women born abroad have 37 percent less chance of working than men born abroad. I do not call that a balanced picture or a successful integration and gender equality policy in the labour market area. The Public Employment Service is the state's main effort to get these women into the labour market. The answer is not extra services, Anna Johansson; only 3% move on to real jobs. As usual, however, social democratic labour market policies: they are subsidies, and they are programme actions. That's how it goes around, and then you put them back in the program. It's not real work! It's subsidised jobs. These are not real jobs, but we need to get them into programmes and education and reduce taxes and employers' contributions for businesses. Not least, we need to get quality into the Swedish Employment Service's efforts, because in the area of gender equality, the Swedish Employment Service and the Government have failed miserably when it comes to foreign-born women.
i-26bab3612af8008c-162	Mr President, I would like to It's not always the right thing to do to raise your tone. I note, as I also said in my speech, that we have a great deal to do, not least in terms of reducing the employment gap between domestic and foreign born and between women and men in the group of foreign born. This is one of our major challenges. When Roger Haddad's party was in government, we had a custody allowance. We basically had the same parental insurance for those who came here with quite large children as for those who had children in Sweden. We have changed this. We have implemented a number of reforms that will make the way to jobs for foreign-born women faster. It's not like all foreign-born women should have extra services. I really hope Roger Haddad doesn't. The additional services are for a group, whether male or female, which needs a very high subsidy rate because it is simply not so viable in the labour market. It is to get a first foot into the labour market in the same way as with internships, work training and other measures for those who actually need to enter the labour market and show that you work in a group and that you can fit times. It's about learning the job at work and using the language in contact with your co-workers. That is the purpose of the operation. Then, like men, women should have access to labour market training, to different types of other subsidizing jobs that are a little closer to regular work and, of course, to the whole range of training available. I would like to ask Roger Haddad: when the Liberals were in government by 2014, how long did it take a foreign-born woman to get to work? How long will it take? Was it better before, Roger Haddad?
i-26bab3612af8008c-168	Mr President, I would like to We would not have seen these results if the People's Party in the then government, against the opinion of the Social Democrats, did not implement a state integration policy for the first time. We took joint responsibility and got away from the municipal lottery where they received new arrivals without social information, without SFI, without systematic efforts and full day activities. You had lost control of integration policy. I asked the same question already when Ylva Johansson was Minister of Labour, because Arbetsförmedlingen does not deliver on its gender equality mission. You enter too late, you get less support and less advice, and you do not procure programmes based on women's conditions and needs in the labour market. That is our answer, and that is our criticism. I have argued this both two, three and four times, but I have not yet seen any results. When are you going to deliver so that we don't have to depend on the extra services?
i-26bab3612af8008c-171	Mr President, I would like to There was a great deal of agreement in the Riksdag to transfer the responsibility for establishment to the Public Employment Service. It didn't happen in any big conflict. In addition, it has been a completely incorrect description of how integration policy worked before then, but we can put that aside. It doesn't matter that much. We're going forward. The Public Employment Service has been given clear directives and mandates. There have been clarifications in regulatory letters and in other ways about strengthening gender equality work in the agency, ensuring that the same assessments are made for women and men and ensuring that they are given the same action based on individual needs. It's a very important measure. This applies not only to Arbetsförmedlingen, but to many agencies that have been commissioned under this government to work with gender mainstreaming as part of the work. Different expectations for men and women go again, and we are going to change that – and we are doing that now. I did not receive an answer to my question from Roger Haddad, and I note that it was not better before.
i-26bab3612af8008c-175	Madam President, I would like It's so easy to just talk about what you think. I'd like to have a conversation about the extra services. I understand why they exist, and I think they can be of benefit to individuals. On the other hand, they are expensive. It is an extremely expensive reform. Few go to regular work. You can argue that it comes a little later, and I can buy some of that argument. What I find difficult is that this is a system that opens up for municipalities to pass the cost on to the state. Instead of purchasing or rather than hiring people, extra services are used. That is not the intention, of course, but if we look out over Sweden today it is happening in many places.
i-26bab3612af8008c-178	Madam President, I would like What Michael Anefur describes in his reply is a challenge for all subsidised employment. On the one hand, there is a great need for people who do not get into the labour market to actually have the opportunity to get a job, to show what they are able to do, to have an expanded network, to learn how it works in a workplace and so on. On the other hand, there is always a risk. Depending on the design of the sites, they can displace regular jobs. In the case of extra services in particular, I would say that this risk is somewhat lower because it is largely about people with very weak links to the labour market. Rather, evaluations show that it is a challenge to receive additional services because they often require a large amount of guidance in order to get a full exchange on the extra service. In terms of income in the form of work, a subsidised form of employment can be envisaged, leading to a 100% transition to regular work. Would that be an effective measure? No, probably not. Such a measure would probably mean a lot of tax money to pay for employment for someone who would still get a job. If you look at the new start jobs, which should be the big deal in your budget, there is much to suggest that this design contributes more to displacement than the extra services do. There is absolutely reason to continue to discuss how to ensure high quality and reduce the risk of displacement and overuse. However, this discussion is not just about extra posts, Michael Anefur, but also about other subsidised jobs.
i-26bab3612af8008c-182	Madam President, I would like If every job you get from extra services can cost 5 – 7 million, it is therefore an expensive measure. It's not free in any way. I think the displacement effect is much more widespread than Anna Johansson thinks, knows or wants to know. Let us look, for example, at greening. Many municipalities deal with this service of private companies. But it can be significantly cheaper to take extra services into work that can actually be learned fairly quickly. We do not need to discuss whether it is very or small, but there is a major problem.
i-26bab3612af8008c-185	Madam President, I would like It is possible that there are such displacement effects. I think we should make sure they are as small as possible. However, in the case of persons who could get a regular job, they should not have an additional job; in that case, they should receive a labour market training. It is therefore unfortunate that the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, are not expanding labour market education in the same way as the government had proposed in its proposal. Instead, it would have given the park worker vocational training and a real job. I hope that in future the Christian Democrats will invest more in training in labour market policy than in precarious and strange subsidised jobs without control.
i-26bab3612af8008c-188	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's draft decision to be approved, that is, the joint draft budget from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. With regard to the AU6 motion for a resolution, which is being discussed at the same time, I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Madam President, I would like More than 60 000 more iva nurses, 72 000 more primary school teachers or 88 000 more nurses are what this is all about. Especially iva nurses would have been needed right now. Had unemployment in Sweden developed as the EU average during Magdalena Andersson's time as Minister of Finance, the costs of Swedish unemployment would have been SEK 42 billion lower per year. It is money that could, should and should have been spent on welfare. On the contrary, Sweden now belongs to Europe's ironing class. Only Italy, Greece and Spain have higher unemployment than we have. So we are the fourth worst in the European Union. I have news for Anna Johansson: Sweden is not alone in having had a pandemic. The fact that Sweden has developed worse than almost all other countries is due to the fact that the government has actually failed in the jobs, not the crisis or the increase in labour force participation. The proportion of people working in Sweden has developed worse than in any other EU country since 2014. That is the facts, Madam President. Even before the coronan Sweden had the lowest growth per person in the EU. Before Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance Sweden was on the contrary among the highest. In spite of the Social Democrats' promise that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, we already had, before the crisis, the EU's fifth highest. Sweden was also the only country where unemployment increased between autumn 2014, when the Social Democrats took office, and the Corona crisis broke out. Madam President, I would like Unemployment is Sweden's biggest economic and social problem, especially for the individual who loses jobs and reduces opportunities for self-sufficiency but also for society as a whole. Unemployment not only makes it difficult to strengthen well-being when fewer people pay taxes and more tax money goes to benefits; it also leads in the long run to lower pensions and makes integration impossible for those who instead get stuck in often lifelong exclusion. This, in turn, brings hopelessness and frustration, because that's what it's all about, which lays the foundation for the recruitment of criminal gangs, among other things. Repressing unemployment, Madam President, is crucial for Sweden's future. The biggest and most serious is the record high level of long-term unemployment. Nearly 200 000 people are long-term unemployed, that is, almost half of all unemployed. Long-term unemployment has increased by 20 per cent in one year and 30 per cent in two years. Despite a better economic situation, the government is not expected to be able to reduce the number of long-term unemployed below 170 000 over the next year. This is according to Arbetsförmedlingen's own assessments. Madam President, I would like Moreover, the government leaves the long-term unemployed entirely to their fate, ranging from putting the long-term unemployed into an alarming passivity – two out of three long-term unemployed have no activity planned, and one out of three has had no activity since 2019 – to worsening the job creation, that is, the measure introduced by the alliance government and recognised by the government itself in the budget bill is the most effective effort to get the long-term unemployed into real and unsubsidised jobs. This is also done in favour of the so-called extra services, which are demonstrably the opposite of new start jobs, i.e. expensive and inefficient – only 4% get real, unsubsidised jobs after that. But they serve a purpose, as Anna Johansson mentioned here: They get unemployed out of unemployment statistics. Or, to be clear, they conceal unemployment among women born abroad in particular. That's why the extra jobs are available – to meet the unemployment statistics. But if we're to be honest, it doesn't help any single person. This and more we address in the Moderates together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in the budget that has won approval in the Riksdag. We are strengthening new start-ups across the board, i.e. reducing employers' contributions for the long-term unemployed. It is the proven most effective measure to get the long-term unemployed into real, unsubsidised jobs. But we are also doing a few other things in our budget to begin the fight against unemployment, inequalities and exclusion. We are also spending 1 billion more than the Social Democrats want to do on education, on labour market training and on adult education. So what was claimed here before is directly wrong. Madam President, I would like We also lower taxes for those who work. We are doing it because it is right, because it provides more jobs and increases employment, and we are doing it because it is fair – effort should pay off. We lower taxes for everyone who works, with a focus on low and medium-sized income. We also lower marginal taxes for most people with common occupations such as nannys, assistant nurses and bus drivers. So it becomes more profitable for them to work for an extra hour or to go up to full time. The reinforcement of the job tax credit gives us more hands in welfare. Together with a benefit reform with, among other things, a premium ceiling, lower taxes on low and medium-sized incomes are crucial to breaking unemployment. We also want to make demands that those who have immigrated to Sweden gradually qualify for the Swedish benefit systems and begin to earn them. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by stating the conviction that all of Sweden's major social problems can be solved. Anyone who claims otherwise is wrong, so stop painting the future in just gloomy colors! But it will take time. We are convinced that it is possible to reverse developments and bring a majority of the Swedish people, quite independently of their origins, to a new and better course. This budget, Madam President, is the first step towards that.
i-26bab3612af8008c-204	Madam President, I would like I note that the Moderates in their own budget motion are proposing that unemployment insurance be reduced. In other words, the Moderates continue to say, based on their policies, which are disconnected from facts and statistics, that it is important that people affected by unemployment have even less money to move with while seeking new employment. This is an idea that is firmly rooted in a kind of successful evangelistic view of people and society, where it is important that those who have suffered from structural social problems are also clearly suppressed in the public systems. What I'm trying to understand is how far the Moderates want to go in this case this time when they want to reduce the benefits to those who participate in unemployment insurance. What we know is that after the previous moderate activities the a-cassage system in Sweden became the worst in the Nordic countries. The priority was to transfer funds to home owners and consumers of cleaning and pool services. But what I'm asking is if it's important to keep going. Is it important for the Moderates that Sweden has the worst a-cassage system in the EU? Or do you aim higher, i.e. lower – should it be the worst system in the OECD? What do you want to do to continue your ideologically driven journey down social security systems?
i-26bab3612af8008c-207	Madam President, I would like No, what we are proposing in this budget is that we keep the temporarily increased levels throughout 2022 and then return to the original levels. That is what the Social Democrats have also proposed, and that is what Ali Esbati and his party have said they are prepared to vote for. So there's nothing at all between M, KD and SD and S, MP and V. Then, of course, we want an unemployment fund that also stimulates activity and looking for work. It was very clear that when the Social Democrats changed the unemployment fund during previous terms of office, employment decreased. Rather, unemployment in Sweden increased quite significantly. It is clear that you always have to have an unemployment fund that on the one hand provides basic security but on the other the incentive to look for a job and to make yourself employable. The Left Party is the only party in the Swedish parliament that may not really buy that picture. It will of course be interesting in the future to see how it will be handled in budgets that may have the support of both the Left Party and the Center Party. I also have a question for Ali Esbati. When you read your draft budget, you do not see a single proposal to get more people into work than you do in terms of education. And I note that we spend more on education than the government does. You do, however, have twice as many proposals to get people out of work. It is about the reduction of working time and one with the other. My question to Ali Esbati is: How will this help the record number of long-term unemployed in Sweden?
i-26bab3612af8008c-214	Madam President, I would like Mats Green had a record number of peculiarities in his small post here. I was talking about the Moderates' own budget bill. If it is the case that immediately after you submitted it to the Riksdag you realized that you were wrong on a number of points, it is also interesting to hear. That is not what Mats Green said, but I note that it is a possibility that this is the case. I look forward to seeing how Moderate politics and reasoning change in the future. What is said about the link between unemployment benefit and unemployment is also wrong. But it is not something new either, but we have heard it all day today from Mats Green. I did not get an answer to my original question, but I will answer Mats Green's question. He hasn't found anything in our draft budget that's about how there's gonna be more jobs. The whole of our draft budget is about this. I will explain this in more detail in my speech in a moment.
i-26bab3612af8008c-217	Madam President, I would like It is always a challenge to discuss work and the work line with the Left Party. It'll be a bit like trying to explain religion to an atheist. In theory, the Social Democrats and we have the same picture. We want as many people as possible to work, because we know that welfare needs it. Then it may not always rhyme in practice. But the Left Party doesn't even buy it. There is still not a single proposal in the Left Party budget for more jobs in Sweden, especially for those who are long-term unemployed. I find that quite remarkable. It will be interesting to hear the description of all these proposals later, and it will also be interesting to hear how to describe the proposals on the reduction of working time that exist. As far as the unemployment fund is concerned, it is again the case that we are in the same direction as the government, that is, that we keep the temporarily higher levels in 2022 and then return to the previous ones. Ali Esbati's party has also said that it is prepared to vote in favour. That is the facts, Madam President.
i-26bab3612af8008c-221	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by asking Mats Green where that extra money for education is. I have read the joint M-KD-SD budget proposal, and I do not actually find any more money for adult education or labour market training. On the contrary, the report explicitly states in our area that it reduces the government's increased investment in labour market training and removes additional services. As a result – and this is my second question – there is an increase in the allocation for unemployment and start-up benefits because it is expected that more people will be in open unemployment with your budget than with the government budget. I would like an explanation of this. Does Mats Green think it is a good order that people are passively unemployed rather than in active measures? I have another question, which is about those of the Moderates so cherished fresh start jobs. We talked earlier here today, and also in some other contexts, about how problematic it is that Arbetsförmedlingen does not judge women and men equally and that women to a lesser extent than men get part of work-related efforts. In 2019 the number of new jobs was 31,772. Of these, 9,368 women and 22,403 men took part in the operation. Thus, there were more than twice as many men as women in the effort both in 2019, 2020 and 2021, while the extra services have a gender balance with a small overweight women. Why, Mats Green, do the Moderates want to bet more on men than on women?
i-26bab3612af8008c-225	Madam President, I would like Then I do not really know how the Social Democrats in the Committee on Employment read the budget. But I understand that it is one thing to read something and another to understand what it is you read. We want to invest SEK 7 billion in total in labour market education and adult education. You're proposing an investment of SEK 6 billion. As in the previous debate, I will try not to torment Anna Johansson with too much factual knowledge, but one must nevertheless have respect for the fact that the facts are facts. In the case of extra services, this is therefore an effort that is unique in its inefficiency and unique because it is so expensive. It has so far invested EUR 12 billion and wants to invest an additional EUR 9 billion in this inefficient effort, where less than 4% are in jobs. Less than 4 percent – that means that every job you get costs taxpayers SEK 7 million! On the other hand, when it comes to new jobs, five times as many people get jobs as with additional services. The additional services are also twice as expensive as the new jobs. During this government, the number of new jobs has also been halved. The government itself states – and I think that you should continue to read the budget – in its own draft budget, Madam President, that fresh start jobs are by far the most effective measure to get the long-term unemployed in particular into work. When Anna Johansson stands here and claims that the extra services are very effective in getting women born abroad to work, it is directly wrong. There are far more women born abroad who get a real, unsubsidised, sustainable job with a new start than with extra services. Read what your own government writes in its proposal!
i-26bab3612af8008c-230	Madam President, I would like It is possible that we start from different texts. We can probably sort it out after the debate. I note that Mats Green does not answer at all the question as to why he thinks it is reasonable to invest in a measure that more than twice as many men as women can take part in. We might get answers in the next line; we don't know. I would like to ask Mats Green a question, which often points out that it has never been this bad and that as bad as it is in Sweden, it is sort of nowhere else. It would be very interesting to hear him answer where, for example in the EU or elsewhere in the world, there is a more well-functioning labour market where, for example, more foreign born people get jobs. And where is long-term unemployment a lower proportion of total unemployment? During what time in Swedish history was it better? Was it the last time Mats Green's Moderates had government power? Was it better in the labour market for women born abroad when it comes to long-term unemployment? Please tell me! Is there any role model we can watch, Mats Green?
i-26bab3612af8008c-234	Madam President, I would like The question is a little wrong. Which countries are worse than the Swedish Social Democrats? It is Spain, Greece and Italy. Then all other countries are better off than Sweden. When the Social Democrats talk about the employment rate and participation in the labour force, I find it difficult to see that this would be the answer. If it is about employment rates, Sweden has lost its first position during the reign of the Social Democrats. It's now gone for the first time on I don't know how many decades. If it is about participation in the labour force, I wonder whether it is your answer to the unemployed that they should nevertheless be satisfied that they are included in the unemployment statistics. Is that the only answer you have to give them? The few measures you have proposed do not really mean any improvement for them at all. Madam President, I would like In the case of auxiliary services, it is only a matter of removing unemployed women born abroad from the statistics.
i-26bab3612af8008c-237	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate AU2 here today, expenditure area 14 Labour Market and Working Life, and AU6, labour market policy and unemployment insurance, with movements from general exercise time. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in AU2 to be approved and for the AU to agree to reservation 216. Of course, we support all our proposals, but we explain in specific opinions our positions on what is involved in the common budget, which has been negotiated between the SD, the M and the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like The common budget points to a clear focus on labour market policy with sharper wording and clearer efforts to create real jobs instead of the labour market policy measures that the government persists in spite of terrible results, as we have heard earlier in the debate. At the same time, we maintain security with a maintained strong unemployment fund and increased investments in the Swedish Work Environment Agency and its work as well as increased contributions to research on work environment problems. It is a budget that clearly shows the line of work and security for employees in contrast to the government's subsidy line, where there is absolutely no employee perspective, except that the tax burden is increased in the ordinary order. Sweden needs a new course. The Parliament has endorsed what the Committee on Finance says about the guidelines for economic and budgetary policy. These guidelines also apply as a starting point for the committee's position in this report. Despite the positive economic situation, unemployment is lagging behind and is in danger of getting stuck. This development is considerably worse than in other countries, which have also been affected by the Corona crisis. The government promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate, but Sweden received the EU's fourth highest. It's a monumental failure. Compared to other similar countries, the contrast is palpable. For example, unemployment in Sweden is twice as high as in Denmark, Norway and Germany. The fact that Sweden has developed worse than other countries is mainly due to the government's failure to do the jobs, not to the Corona crisis or to increased labour force participation. Moreover, labour market participation is a measure used to mislead the electorate and make it appear that the government has done something good rather than acknowledging its failure. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, record long-term unemployment appears particularly problematic. Nearly 200 000 people are long-term unemployed, that is, almost half of all unemployed. Long-term unemployment has increased by 20 per cent in one year and 30 per cent in two years, at a high cost to both individuals and society. Despite a better economic situation, the government is not expected to be able to reduce the number of long-term unemployed below 170 000 in the next few quarters. It's the Arbetsförmedlingen's own assessment. Madam President, I would like The longer a person is in unemployment, the more difficult it will be to return to the labour market and get regular employment. The Swedish Democrats believe that the political orientation of labour market policy must be that Sweden should have full employment, which means that everyone who can and wants to work should also have a job to go to. It is important for the individual's economy and for the national economy, but there is also a value in giving everyone the opportunity to belong to a working community, and then the focus should be on the creation of regular employment. The problems that stand in the way of achieving full employment differ over time. In the early 2000s, the most important task was to break the widespread alienation of early retirement. Today, the challenge has shifted, and now it is mainly non-European born and less educated people who end up outside. These are the precious consequences of the failed immigration policy that has been going on for far too long in this country. In order to get more people into work, it must be more profitable to move from grants to work. Anyone who can work should work – not always 100 per cent of full-time but 100 per cent of their own ability. Today, the overall level of benefits and benefits may mean that it does not pay enough to start working instead of living on benefits. It is the strong view of the Swedish Democrats that in the coming years it is necessary to implement reforms in order to prevent people from falling into long-term dependency on subsidies and to make it easier for those who are in it to get out. What is at issue here is reduced taxes on labour and reduced costs for companies employing the long-term unemployed. It is also about stricter requirements for those who have immigrated to learn Swedish, make themselves employable and want to become part of society. It is about benefit systems that encourage work and a growth policy that allows companies to grow and dare to hire. But it is also a question of significantly reducing immigration to Sweden and greatly tightening up labour migration. Today, there are people who can take the jobs that exist. We must be able to give those who are already far from the labour market a reasonable chance of getting a job and contributing to society. Today's policy has left people excluded and not given them a chance to become part of society. This is something that has left a deep mark on the entire welfare of health care, care and school. This has led to increased violence and crime in society. Here the Social Democrats and previous governments owe the answer.
i-26bab3612af8008c-248	Madam President, I would like Let's get some formula first. The Centre Party does not participate in the committee procedure, given the rules of procedure that exist. We have developed our positions in a separate opinion. In the AU6 motion for a resolution, of course, we support all our requests, but I only support reservation 2. When you listen to this debate, especially when dogmatic Swedish democrats and now even Moderates speak, you get the impression that the world is about to end. Yet the tone here is relatively moderate, at least if you compare with all the thinkers who are ravaging on social media. However, the root of all misery is spelled migration, according to the blue-brown, regardless of the platform – at least the misery that with a large portion of creativity can be linked to immigration, which is basically everything nowadays: from lack of jam in old age homes to left-wing dominance among journalists. You yourself hear how absurd it has become. Some 600,000 foreign born are not self-sufficient, they say. It is a rather poorly substantiated figure from a report produced by the Entrepreneurship Forum, which now dominates the public debate. It is also used to establish, together with other loose figures, the Swedish-democratic finder on the world. Madam President, I would like I'm a friend of order and fact. You should call a shovel a shovel. Problems should not be swept under the carpet. But you shouldn't make up your own reality with loose numbers that don't say much separately. You should bring something important, namely perspective. Let me give you a few examples. The number of recipients and households of aid decreased in 2020. More than 198 000 households or 374 000 people, including children, received financial assistance at some point in 2020, which corresponds to approximately one in every 20 households in Sweden. This sounds like extreme numbers. I can honestly agree that there are very many. However, compared with 1996, when 721 040 people received financial assistance, the figure is in a different light. Moreover, it was the fifth year in succession that the number of households in aid decreased. It's good to have this with you.
i-26bab3612af8008c-255	It's a number that makes you both nervous and anxious. But it is a decrease of 4.3 per cent from the previous year, or 38 per cent from the mid-1990s, when nearly 1.2 million people were supported by social benefits and benefits. And remember that Sweden's population has increased by nearly 1.8 million people in the last 30 years! Last year, approximately 33 percent, or 3.4 million people in Sweden, had foreign background. Of these, the lion's share are decent and hardworking people, who wake up every morning and go to work or school and do their best and contribute to the common. They are cleaners, teachers, taxi drivers, nurses, engineers, doctors, economists, journalists, entrepreneurs and so on. Some are on sick leave or out of work. Very few are criminals and destroy for everyone else. Madam President, I would like Perspectives, that is! What if more people could understand the meaning of these ten letters and stop blacking out our society all the time? Madam President, I would like Certainly there are problems in our beloved Sweden today. We all agree on this, regardless of the colour of politics. There is a great alienation that divides us. And there are obvious problems with gang crime. There is a clear mismatch in the Swedish labour market. There are over 118 000 job vacancies registered in the Platsbanken, but companies feel that they cannot find a sufficiently qualified workforce. It's alarming. However, the problem with today's debate is that it is so fragmented. Nothing is placed in a context and analysed in depth. Suggestions for solutions are more difficult to detect than unicorns. And the worst thing is that when there are concrete proposals, such as those of the Center Party, unholy alliances take place to sabotage rather than contribute. Madam President, I would like 369,762 persons, or 7.2 per cent of the labour force, were enrolled as unemployed at the Employment Service in November 2021. The corresponding figure in the previous year was 450 820. The trend is therefore moving in the right direction, and we are almost at the same levels as before the pandemic struck. But on one point, things are going the wrong way. We have 30 000 more long-term unemployed, and we are approaching 200 000 people who have been without a job for more than 12 months. In other words, long-term unemployment is a major and growing problem in the Swedish labour market. The proportion of unemployed with long enrollment periods at the Employment Service has increased trend in recent years. It is a development that has been reinforced during the pandemic. For the individual, a longer period of time without work often means a decline in the chances of getting a job. One's education, experience and professional networks are losing its value. In addition, a prolonged period of unemployment may reduce the motivation to look for work. Madam President, I would like There was a high employment rate and high participation rate in Sweden before Corona, compared to other countries in Europe, not least among women and the elderly. However, the labour market was already seriously divided, and division is now increasing further in relation to the effects of the pandemic. If the division is not broken, unemployment risks being permanent at unacceptably high levels. Sweden needs a number of concrete and responsible reforms to achieve lower labour market thresholds, more jobs without training requirements and more effective matching. The extensive regulation of the labour market has made labour market transition more difficult, where the pace of change has increased with digitalisation and accelerated further as a result of the proliferation of covid-19. Historical reforms to break the two-way labour market in areas such as labour law, entry wages, employment services, unemployment insurance, integration of new arrivals and tax wedges on labour began as part of the cooperation between the Center Party, Liberals and the Government based on the January Agreement. These reforms are also necessary to achieve a better post-pandemic recovery of the labour market. It is therefore essential that the work begun continues in the same direction as under the January Agreement and that the historic labour market transformation presented in June 2021, based on the January Agreement and in accordance with the agreement of the Parties, is carried out. Jobs for many thousands of unemployed people are directly dependent on solving these basic problems in the labour market. It is also the solution for breaking the alienation. Let's stop bickering! Let us roll up our sleeves and solve the problems without blacking out!
i-26bab3612af8008c-267	Madam President, I would like I want to start by saying that I think Alireza Akhondi is a good person and a good politician. I therefore do not think that he needs to lower himself to this level and paste colors and color codes on other politicians. I just think he's too good a person to do it. He won't win any plus points on it. I have looked at the Centre Party's draft budget and I would like to ask Alireza Akhondi a few questions about how to think and reason. The administrative costs of the Employment Service are reduced by 6 780 million, leaving 1.2 billion behind. How do you justify it? The employment agency must be an audit authority and have the main responsibility for the reform and the like. How does the Center Party think that one should even be able to carry out one's work with such a great reduction? How does the Center Party view the continued important work environment work at our Swedish workplaces? The grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority is reduced very significantly. It is a work that plays an important role in examining the fraud and the crime of working life in our workplaces. How does the Center Party view it?
i-26bab3612af8008c-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Persson, for the questions! Unfortunately, I think Magnus Persson has read the numbers a little wrong. It's okay. However, we do not reduce the administrative grant to Arbetsförmedlingen as much as Magnus Persson wants to claim. The employment agency's assignments have changed and will change. This results in a small reduction in the administrative allocation in order for it to be in line with the authority's mandate. In the case of the Swedish Work Environment Agency, the Center Party does not reduce funding either. We are a little lower than the budget that has been passed. But the increase in ambition that M, KD and SD have presented in their budget is financed by reductions in other appropriations that we have chosen not to do. That's why it looks a little different.
i-26bab3612af8008c-273	Madam President, I would like But you reduce the grant quite properly for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, and then automatically reduce their ability to do inspections at the workplace. How does the Center Party want to achieve better work environment management? How do you in the Center Party want to get better order and know about the Swedish labour market when you lower the funding to the authorities that have the main responsibility?
i-26bab3612af8008c-274	Madam President, I would like Again: We do not lower the grant for the Swedish Work Environment Authority – it is only the list of figures that takes place annually. That's the difference. Then there is an increase in the budget from M, KD and SD, and it is at the expense of other appropriations. We have chosen to prioritise differently. That's what it looks like. Work environment work is important, and it is clear that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's inspections to ensure that the problems that exist are addressed are important. The Center Party also agrees with that.
i-26bab3612af8008c-276	Madam President, I would like I have some thoughts about the Employment Service, which it has been important for the Center Party to dismantle and privatise. Now that development is under way. In the last turn, the proposals put forward by the government have been referred, and I will make some comments on the referrals. IFAU, Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, notes that there is no evidence that private performers achieve better results than public ones. If anything, there seems to be higher labour market policy costs. A number of municipalities have submitted comments. There you can read things like that there is no reason at all to maintain the direction of the course and that it would have been more understandable to make a proper move. It is said that people who are far from the labour market will not be a sufficiently interesting and profitable group for suppliers to work with based on the current approach. You can look at what the trade unions say. Such a socially important function must be reformed with solid research support," says SSR, who states that these requirements are not met and rejects the proposal as a whole. I wonder how Alireza Akhondi thinks it's going. Now we see the effects of the so-called reform – what, in principle, everyone warned about would arise. The Center Party seems determined to continue this development in exactly the same direction, preferably faster and harder. I wonder, why?
i-EoLt81HVy2iD8TbzP6HtMH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the questions. It is a pity that I only have two minutes to respond to this. Normally I give a lecture in about an hour about the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen. I promise to send an invitation to Ali Esbati and the Left Party the next time I will give such a talk. We have not intended to close the Public Employment Service, ever, but the reform of the Public Employment Service has, in many respects, been about clarifying the mission to the agency. It is a very important authority that handles about 70 billion dollars of our tax money. It is not something to be privatised or dismantled. I usually compare with going to a doctor when you go to an employment intermediary: You describe your symptoms and get a prescription. Where this recipe is handled – Kronans Apotek or Apotek Hjärtat – is really egalt, but if you get heart medicine when you have back pain, which is the case today, it becomes wrong in the whole system. Many studies have been carried out over the years, including the large labour market survey carried out in 2009 which was handed over to the Riksdag. It highlighted the shortcomings of state labour market policies. I see that time is ticking away, but for us this is important. If the unholy alliance had not convicted the government Löfven before the summer, the work of reforming the Public Employment Service would have continued. Now that part is not part of the agreement that we should release Magdalena, and so our insight into this work has stopped.
i-26bab3612af8008c-285	Madam President, I would like Over the years, I think I have heard center parties talk considerably more than an hour about this process, but I cannot say that it has had any calming effect on me. In practice, developments have continued in a very problematic direction. And I don't think anyone will be happier with the comparison with the pharmacies, if I'm to be completely honest. I think we should consider whether the important thing about labour market policy is that it should be a kind of source of income for commercial operators or whether what is important is that we equip more people for the labour market that exists and develops. If you have the former, you might think that the so-called reform is very successful. But I have more of the second goal, and I also think that is what the Swedish people want to see Arbetsförmedlingen do. Then probably the policy of the Center Party is a major problem rather than a solution.
i-26bab3612af8008c-287	Madam President, I would like It is sad that Ali Esbati and the Left Party repeatedly deliberately misunderstand and want to sell a picture of the reform of the Employment Service that is not at all in line with reality. There is nothing to say that better results would automatically be achieved simply because it is the private sector that manages the communication. We have not said that either. If Ali Esbati adds and reads what we are actually trying to do, he will see that the reform of the Public Employment Service is about the broad, large responsibility. We are going to get a labour market policy assessment that is up to date and not just based on where people are registered and their postal code. It is about increasing the exchange of information between authorities, and it is about removing the obstacles that make people unable to reach their full potential. This is what the reform is all about.
i-FKtHQU68H8GTrVhDe9WZrw	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is both about a number of motions and about the part of the budget relating to Category 14 Labour market and working life. It has been a strange and possibly confusing process around this year's budget. There is a budget bill presented by the government of Löfven, which many may remember and which consisted of two parties, S and MP. The government's budget base, the unfortunate document known as the January agreement, was dissolved before the budget bill was to be presented. However, one of the former contracting parties, in practice the main author, the Center Party, forbade from its isolated position in the broad middle government to secure support for its budget bill through other negotiations. Since at the same time it became clear to us in the Left Party and to most of the others that the composition of the parliament does not change through speech points and magical thinking, it was necessary to find other forms of the parliamentary process around the government's budget. On the Left side, we did our utmost to remain constructive in this strange situation. We made our demands through the media. Although the budget proposal that was finally presented left much to be desired, we can at least note that the process has led, among other things, to health insurance finally being patched up. This is important. The Center Party, on the other hand, negotiated with the government its demands for, among other things, eroded public rights and reached an agreement with the government. But so they abstained so that instead it was the blue-brown budget changes that went through. These, in turn, constitute a kind of sprawling and unfinished group work submitted just before the deadline. On the other hand, the primary purpose of that process has been rather team building around the racist rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats, which has worked better than, for example, checking the consequences of proposals before they are presented. But, Madam President, a state budget is not fair, it is the main tool for governing a country. And it should be a coherent response to real problems in society – the concreteization of a will orientation to build what we have in common better and stronger. The left-wing budget movement Red policy for a green transition is about this – about changing our society to face the climate crisis, about ensuring that our welfare services and insurance systems are the best we can offer each other and that economic policy is aimed at full employment and long-term unemployment is combated through active labour market policies. These major tasks are linked. It is in the first place – hope that Mats Green will listen now – through economic and business policy that the conditions for more and better jobs are created. In our budget exercise, we in the Left Party allocate more than SEK 70 billion more than in the budget bill for reforms aimed at accelerating the green transition, strengthening rural areas and the local government sector and upgrading the security and health systems. These are reforms which are essentially – through and through – job reforms. This can be done with a policy of redistribution to welfare services and investment that makes society stronger and life easier and freer for many more. Some of the initiatives we are proposing and funding are also about labour market policy. An active and effective labour market policy that provides security and opportunities for transition in the event of unemployment is central to strengthening employees. This means a focus on education, an employment service that equips and supports the unemployed to take on the jobs that exist and the jobs that are emerging and an unemployment insurance that is viable. As far as unemployment insurance is concerned, I note that the strengthening of levels following the outbreak of the pandemic, which the Left Party has called for, will remain in this budget. That's good. It goes without saying that they need to increase from this level also in the future, not decrease. Most people understand that the need for security in the event of unemployment is not reduced if virus spread is reduced and that this security – contrary to some of the strange notions spread from the right – is not an obstacle to more people to work but, on the contrary, a prerequisite for fewer people to get further away from the labour market. Madam President, I would like While the number of unemployed is gradually decreasing, long-term unemployment remains very high. More than half of those enrolled in the Employment Service have been unemployed for more than two years. Here a well-functioning labour market policy would play a major role. At the same time, however, the Employment Service is the authority that will implement labour market policy under strong pressure as a result of cuts, redundancies and ongoing reform. In practice, this reform, which was dictated by the so-called January Agreement, means that the possibility of a coherent state labour market policy is waning away at all. As a result of the severe cuts, a permanent employment office is currently lacking in many localities. In many of these places long-term unemployment is very high. The long-term unemployed often need much more support in the form of physical meetings, among other things, than unemployed people who have been out of work for a short time. In order to combat long-term unemployment, the Left Party therefore proposes increased resources for setting up special employment offices in those municipalities where the proportion of long-term unemployed is particularly high and where a permanent employment office is currently lacking. What we now see happening to Arbetsförmedlingen is that Sweden gets another area where significant public funds are pumped out to commercial actors in a difficult way. It is remarkable that the government is continuing along this path, despite the massive criticism that has been levelled at what is happening and despite the fall of the January agreement. Unfortunately, the reform, or in practice dismantling, of the Employment Service that we see is something that must now also be regarded as a social democratic policy. That is truly regrettable. What Sweden would need now is a real emergency stop for this destructive process that has been outlined together in the most world-based market-fundamentalist spirit of the Center and Liberals. Madam President, I would like It should also be said that the blue-brown changes in the budget are not very many, but in this area we are moving in the opposite direction to what would be needed. More than 2 billion are being cut in labour market policy programmes and interventions. Instead, some of this money is spent on making the system of so-called new start jobs more lucrative for employers. This is a very doubtful policy if the aim would be to improve the labour market situation of newcomers. On the other hand, there is a significant risk that a great deal of this money will go to activities that have made use of subsidies in systems and which are difficult to control. This deepens a problem that is already a major one. Subsidised employment is often a good and necessary measure to help people who are far from the labour market. But there have also been problems for a long time with rogue employers who put in systems to take in the unemployed from various programmes instead of hiring people as regular workers. Sometimes, in fact, it is a matter of purely working-life criminality, where this puts big money into circulation and interacts with other forms of crime. From the Left side we have been pushing for improvements in this area for a long time. I note that the government has taken some steps along the way to tackle irregularities, but there is still a lot to be done. We have a wide range of proposals in this area which are dealt with in the AU6 report. There are numerous testimonies and warning signals around this, not least from the trade unions where this reality is met. Our proposals are about identifying this and taking action. Madam President, I would like I shall also say something very briefly about a motion by the Green Party on labour integration social enterprises. The motion addresses the need for a regulation defining work integration social enterprises. During the first preparation of this matter, the Green Party was still in the government and did not bring forward the motion itself. After that, they have picked up the proposal again. This is something that we in the Left Party have long been calling for as one of several roads to a more spacious labour market, a labour market more adapted to who actually lives in our society, where more people can work on their own full capacity. I note that this is a good proposal. And although we have other proposals on this point this time, I hope that there will be more of us to deal with these issues in the future. Otherwise, I refer to our special opinion in the AU2 report on our draft budget. As far as the AU6 report is concerned, I naturally support all the reservations of the Left Party, but today I call for the approval of reservation 10. Finally, I would like to wish a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year in particular to the secretariat of the Committee on Employment, which, with hard work and great professionalism, has supported the work of the committee.
i-26bab3612af8008c-309	Madam President, I would like I had hoped that the last line would lead to some corrections in Mr Ali's speech when I did my utmost to explain the reform of the Employment Service. But obviously more time is needed to explain how this historical transformation of the Swedish labour market is supposed to take place. Then, of course, I agree with Ali Esbati on the praise given to the office. You've done a great job, and we're very grateful for that. When I look at the Left Party and Ali Esbati's draft budget in the area of expenditure, there are no other proposals on how to overcome long-term unemployment, apart from a general increase in various contributions and an increase in administrative reform. Now that I have Ali Esbati on the line, so to speak, I wonder whether he and the Left can explain how they intend to break the breeding ground for crime and exclusion. What reforms do you wish to highlight as being particularly active in overcoming these problems?
i-26bab3612af8008c-313	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I am happy to correct myself when confronted with someone who is right, so to speak, but not otherwise – as in this case. It is quite right that it is not the Left Party's idea that all the deep societal problems – crime, exclusion and so on – should be solved through the administrative grant to the Employment Service. That's not how society works. We put forward the proposals we have regarding the Public Employment Service based on the needs of the Public Employment Service. However, we do have a number of other proposals in other areas of expenditure – I was in my speech – to get more people to work. We need to employ many more in the public sector, many of which need more colleagues. It's about health care, care for the elderly and so on. It is in another area of expenditure. We need to invest more in infrastructure and a variety of other things that we know society needs. It generates jobs mainly in the private sector. And we need to ensure that those areas that are vulnerable, or rather disadvantaged, in our society receive the support that they need, for example, in the form of more state presence, in the form of improvements in people's private economy and in the form of more jobs to go to. These are major commitments, and we need a comprehensive budgetary policy and a comprehensive public policy for this. It is something that permeates the entire Left Party motion. It also permeates this area of expenditure, which we have touched upon, but one or two appropriations cannot, of course, be looked at in Category 14 to understand the policy of the Left Party. That is absolutely correct.
i-26bab3612af8008c-317	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Ali Esbati. Unfortunately, I can see that fine words do not always lead to concrete results. Nor am I more pleased to note that, as usual, the Left Party has access to banknote presses which all other parties de facto lack. After all, you are spending considerably more money than everyone else in this particular area of expenditure, Ali Esbati. It is clear that you will then also have more resources to devote to increased administrative appropriations when the agency's mission has in fact become considerably smaller and when resources for equipping and matching efforts are added to the proposals of the Center Party as well.
i-26bab3612af8008c-319	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to recall a fundamental feature of budgets, namely that they are made up of expenditure and revenue. That is how the funding works: it proposes expenditure, and it proposes changes on the revenue side as well. It is possible for Alireza Akhondi to check out the Left Party's motion after this shift, where we describe expenditure and income very well and clearly. For example, we think it is more important to spend money on the things we have talked about today than to subsidise, for example, pool cleaning and other things, but you can have different inputs when it comes to what is important in a society. However, I agree that it is not fine words that count without concrete action, and it is the concrete actions – in a number of areas – that the Left Party proposes in its overall budgetary motion.
i-QVUvoPsrWNCEbLhjCrgAa4	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the AU2 report and for reservation 14 in the AU6 report. I live in the strange view that we should have respect for each other in this House. I must say that I am a little saddened when both the Center Party and the Left make use of the epithete. I think it is a little too low and that it is not appropriate in this House. Now I've told you how I feel about it. I know that this may be a tedious feeling and that perhaps it might be seen as attacking someone who is already lying, but it cannot be ignored that the Social Democrats in the 2014 election campaign promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment during the current term of office. I assume, of course, that the Social Democrats really believed in what they promised – everything else would have been to deceive the voters, and that is what you should and cannot do – but the outcome was, to say the least, gloomy. Instead of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate, we are now four from the end. The question is what the Social Democrats will dare to promise for the 2022 elections. If I'm going to guess, I don't think there's going to be any promise at all about unemployment figures, and maybe that's just as good. Every time someone brings this up, however, the defense comes reptilically: it's the coronan's fault. It's not the government's policy, it's the coronan's fault. It is easy to understand that you want to blame yourself when you cannot or do not want to take responsibility for the policy that you have actually pursued, and the corona is excellent in this respect. The problem is that the excuse does not hold, because unemployment was very high compared to other countries in the EU even before the Corona. Furthermore, we should not forget that all countries in the EU have been affected by Corona, but that other countries have managed to keep unemployment at a much lower level than Sweden. The answer, then, is not the coronan, but an inadequate policy, for which the previous government and the current one are entirely responsible. In order to gain respect among voters, it should be possible to see that much has failed in labour market policy, but that will of course never happen. Madam President, I would like For a long time, the labour market and labour market policies have been considered to be the parade of the Social Democrats. Sometimes they have even presented themselves as the guarantor of a good labour market. The question is whether it should apply after this term of office. Of course, there are things that work, but labour market policies must reasonably evolve along with their present times. Measures that worked 20 to 30 years ago in today's society can be directly counterproductive. The Social Democrats have during the current period managed to achieve eight – I say eight – proposals in the area of the Employment Committee. None of them are about long-term unemployment. It's not much to overwhelm. It shows a non-existent capacity for action in terms of labour market policy, and this in an area that is traditionally a social democratic parade for Sweden, Madam President. Actually, that's not good enough. The unemployment rate currently stands at 7.2 per cent in total. Among young people, unemployment is 8.9%. The total number of people enrolled in the Employment Service is 370 000, of whom 181 000 are long-term unemployed. It is certainly a good thing that overall unemployment now seems to be turning downwards while the economic cycle is turning upwards, but the number of unemployed over a year, i.e. the long-term unemployed, does not seem to fall, but rather the other way round. If measures are not taken, we are approaching 200 000 long-term unemployed. We know that the longer you stay outside the labour market, the harder it is to get back in. If you are also 55-plus it becomes even more difficult. When almost 200 000 are long-term unemployed, each government should do everything to reverse the trend. Every effort should be made to reduce long-term unemployment and to equip the individual for a return to work. But this government, as in the past, has few or no proposals for improving the situation. That's remarkable. Experience and research show that labour market measures that take place in real jobs produce the best results. That's why we want to develop new start jobs. New start jobs have proved to be the best result of the currently tested labour market policy measures. New start jobs give the employer a reduced employer's contribution when hiring a long-term unemployed person. New start jobs are real jobs that employers demand, and with a reduced employer's contribution initially, the employer has the opportunity to bring forward employment or develop their business with more employees. Employment means a great deal of responsibility, and as an employer, of course, we want to be as sure as possible that it will be a good job for both parties. Reducing the initial cost of hiring young people, immigrants and the long-term unemployed has proved to be an effective way of getting more people into work. Therefore, Madam President, it is a mystery why the government decided to reduce the number of new jobs. Why cut back on what actually works? Instead, it introduces, or increases resources to, additional services and introductory jobs, which result in significantly worse outcomes for the individual's ability to get a regular job. Of course, there must be many labour market measures, because one method cannot be suitable for everyone, but actually cutting back on the method that has proved most effective is surprising. Madam President, I would like I can't help but raise the issue of shared tours in the care of the elderly. This is something we have been wrestling with for a long time in the municipalities. That is something that governments have talked about and seen the problem with without being able to come up with a really good proposal. The budget now being presented proposes to counter the splits in care for the elderly. It is, of course, a way of improving the working environment and a way of improving the conditions for those who work. Shared tours make continuous leave and recovery difficult and reduce the quality of life of employees. A split tour means two hours of work with a stop of more than an hour between. It is not uncommon to spend up to four hours in the middle of the day. In our joint budget with M and SD, we set aside funds that the municipalities should be able to apply for to introduce the so-called Söderhamn model, where no one is forced to work shared tours but where those who voluntarily choose to work such passports receive financial compensation for the time between the two tours. For this, SEK 300 million is set aside for 2022 and 600 million each for 2023 and 2024. This is a historic step to really improve for those who work with shared tours in our care for the elderly. I am proud of the revised proposal that is now on the table of Parliament. It is a proposal that provides more opportunities for work instead of grants. It is a proposal that focuses on making the individual employable. It is a proposal that strengthens work environment work and, not least, increases the resources for access to work crime.
i-26bab3612af8008c-340	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we in the Liberals are abstaining from taking part in the decision on the framework budget for labour market policy because our option has fallen. As far as the motion for a resolution is concerned, we are following up our reservation 19 on disability policy on labour market issues. Madam President, I would like It must pay off to work and to invest in yourself. Unfortunately, we see that Sweden deviates negatively within the OECD. The fact that people have taken on long loans and invested in three, four or five years of academic education is not always reflected in career opportunities and wage developments. It's about how our economic policy is rigged. Sweden is supposed to be the country of opportunity. This begins in school and education. Why, then, is it important, Madam President, to go to school? Yes, it directly reflects the progress of the pupils who leave primary school. It is 15 – 16 per cent who leave comprehensive school without passing grades and do not enter upper secondary school. Only in the morning today, the Employment Service said that the most important factor in entering and having a chance to enter the labour market is a complete and clear upper secondary school degree. Although we see some positive developments in upper secondary school – for example, more people are now taking a vocational degree in the practical programmes compared to ten years ago – the basic structural problem remains that 28-30 per cent of those leaving upper secondary school after three years do not have a final grade. They're out of high school. The risk of them entering unemployment or crime is obvious. Whether it is a matter of pandemic, notice, bankruptcy or economic change in society, labour market policy and the Public Employment Service are one of the most important safety nets in the state. It has to work. That is why many of us go in with critical eyes and look at this toolbox, which receives over 90 billion of taxpayers' money. How can we get delivery for the money that the state, government and parliament allocate? It is barely a week, Madam President, without the unemployment insurance inspection coming up with various review reports looking at different parts of the Employment Service. When you look at the activity reports, there's a lot of criticism. When you look at the action plans, criticism comes. When you look at the gender equality mission, which others have also looked at, you direct criticism. When you look at the establishment assignment, which is an important part of Arbetsförmedlingen, you direct criticism. I and the Liberals believe that the Social Democrats have lost control and control of their most important authority, namely the Employment Service. When I look at our colleagues here, I understand that it is difficult to take in the fact that you are not self-critical on the basis of the policies that have been conducted. Now we are seeing after the pandemic that it is starting to balance; we are starting to go back to a normal level of unemployment. However, we are still higher than in 2019. Youth unemployment is higher, due to decades of structural shortcomings in the education system and the lack of proper practical training, vocational training and apprenticeships compared with other European countries. We also see that integration policy has failed. Why is this relevant here, Madam President? Because of the fact that of the long-term unemployed, who are about 181 000, 63 percent are born abroad. It is a huge failure of the government's integration policy. Sixty-three per cent of the long-term unemployed have been enrolled for more than twelve months, and more than half of them have not had a job in the last two years. Then it is not enough to come back year after year with the same programme and the same labour market policy measures. Many of these people are in danger of permanently getting stuck in exclusion, in different types of benefit schemes and in different types of unemployment insurance. It must always pay to get out of work, to study further and to take real jobs to get on with it. We have structures – domestic extremism, radicalisation, patriarchal structures and honorary culture – that prevent many of the foreign-born women and, of course, also affect their participation in SFI and in practical moments, as well as their willingness and opportunity to sign up. We see that they sign up later and have a lower participation. As I have said, it is also the case that the support for women born abroad is not being delivered. With regard to disability policy, we have recently pushed through another committee initiative on Samhall and the need to review coding and the need to review disability policy as a whole. It is not possible to continue along this path. Disabled people have higher unemployment than the rest of society. Support needs to be improved. It is not reasonable to return more than SEK 1 billion from Arbetsförmedlingen to the government because Arbetsförmedlingen has not been able to support and offer people with disabilities better support in working life. With this, Madam President, I wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-26bab3612af8008c-354	Madam President, I would like I am standing here in the speaker's chair instead of Leila Ali-Elm i, who unfortunately is ill. I, too, naturally agree with all our reservations in the AU6, but in order to gain time, I only call for reservation 15, which concerns work integration social enterprises. Madam President, I would like Unemployment had started to rise even before the pandemic due to the cyclical situation. With the pandemic and the restrictions it brought with it, unemployment began to skyrocket. Those who were most affected were people with a weak link to the labour market. In recent months we have seen a recovery in the labour market. New jobs are emerging, and many people are coming back to work after the pandemic. At the same time, too many people are at risk of falling into long-term unemployment. The government has introduced a range of measures to mitigate the impact on individual economies but also to help companies survive during the pandemic. These are, in themselves, important measures and very large sums of money have been set aside. Aid granted includes short-term lay-offs and conversion aid to enterprises. But we have also made it easier to qualify for unemployment insurance and increased both the ceiling and the basic amount. More and more people are covered by unemployment insurance. Improved basic protection is important. The Green Party wants these changes to be permanent. It is fully in line with what we have been pushing for a long time: that more should be covered by the security systems. Madam President, I would like Long-term unemployment was too high even before the pandemic, and, as I said, there is a great risk that it will stick to even higher levels after it. It is urgent that we use the tools that we know work to prevent such development. Work integration social enterprises can play an important role in this work, as they create jobs for groups that otherwise find it difficult to access the labour market. These may include people who have had problems with addiction or crime in the past, who have been long-term sick because of mental illness or who need additional language support. In other words, it is those groups in society that, even in a boom, may need additional support to enter the regular labour market and, in other words, those groups that are at risk of being most affected by the effects of the pandemic on the labour market. The Green Party has long been driving a labour market policy that puts the individual's need for support at the centre. There must be several ways to work for those who are far from the labour market. The needs of individuals are different, and labour market policy efforts need to reflect on this. Thus, labour-integrated social enterprises have as their overall aim the creation of jobs for people who for some reason are far removed from the labour market. The companies also offer work training and rehabilitation to enable those taking part in the business to move on to employment with other employers. Labour-integrated social enterprises are often run as work cooperatives and mainly reinvest their profits in their own activities. The social benefits of this are obvious and well documented. Among other things, the Swedish Agency for Growth has found that work integration social enterprises are particularly good for the target group newly arrived and long-term unemployed people born abroad. After following a number of projects, the agency has seen that the individual develops both the language and other skills needed in the labour market. The activities also stimulate the participants to leadership and entrepreneurship, which in turn helps to create new jobs. Thus, work integration social enterprises can play a very important role in society and in the work of public health and against exclusion, segregation and unemployment. But their position in Sweden is unfortunately rather unclear and needs to be strengthened. Unlike our neighbours and many other EU countries, Sweden does not have a clear definition of what is actually a work integration social enterprise. The definition sometimes used is from the then government's 2010 action plan. Neither the Swedish Agency for Growth nor other key actors in the field of social enterprise think it is sufficient, but want a clearer definition. The Green Party believes that society must be better at supporting and developing work integration social enterprises. As part of this, we see a great need for a clear and generally accepted definition of what labour integration social enterprises are. A definition would create greater clarity for individuals who come into contact with the activities as well as for the Employment Service, municipalities, authorities and other actors who cooperate, or would like to cooperate, with labour integration social enterprises. A clear definition also makes it easier for authorities and municipalities to create partnerships with, direct public procurement to and purchase services from labour integration social enterprises. In the first place, we would like to see such a definition formulated in a regulation of our own – a regulation that also legitimises and highlights work integration social enterprises as important actors for Sweden's development. The Green Party believes that it is very important that other obstacles which stand in the way of labour integration social enterprises can also be removed, so that these companies can be a possible entry into the labour market for more people than they are today. We also want to see that the Public Employment Service assigns people to these companies to a greater extent. This is currently far too rare, given the needs and potential of the business. In particular, it is of great importance that reformed labour market policies create the right conditions for work-inclusive social enterprises to be part of active labour market policies. We therefore propose that the government establish a new action plan to promote work integration social enterprises that can replace and develop the previous 2010 Action Plan. Finally, I wonder if I heard correctly, namely that the Christian Democrat Michael Anefur said in the speaker's chair that the KD wants to introduce the Söderhamn model. Maybe I heard it wrong.
i-26bab3612af8008c-372	Madam President, I would like I wanted to focus on the AU6 report in particular, but since it is a joint debate on AU2, on the area of expenditure, and AU6, on labour market policy and unemployment insurance, I will talk about both. With regard to AU2, the expenditure area, I would like to start by saying that, since our proposal for the financial framework has fallen, I refer to the joint opinion of S and MP. As far as the AU6 is concerned, I would like to support the proposal and reject the reservations. I am proud but not satisfied with the work environment that the government is doing on the basis of the Social Democratic values. We want more when it comes to that part. During our seven years of government ownership, we have pushed the development forward to create a better and more core work environment work around our workplaces in the country. But as I said, we want to do more. We want to improve the physical and psychosocial working environment by strengthening work environment work and investing in preventive work, supervision and working life research. We want to strengthen the safety representatives. They need better opportunities to carry out their vital mission. We want to create security in the transition. More people should be able to receive training on paid working hours, and all employees should receive conversion support in order to switch to a new job or, if necessary, be able to train themselves to a new profession. We want to reduce the number of precarious jobs by removing general fixed-term employment and regulating planing, hiring and the right to full-time employment. We want to combat the crime of working life. It should never pay to commit crimes, evade taxes or gain competitive advantages by neglecting employees' rights to a safe working environment. The authorities should be given more resources and tools to get to the criminal actors. We want to review the rules on health and safety at work from a gender perspective in order to improve the working environment in the predominantly women-dominated professions a. We want to increase access to occupational health care and ensure equal and present occupational health care for both women and men. We want to review the responsibility for health and safety at work in the gig economy. Employers should not be able to evade work environment responsibility by hiding behind an app. We want to develop teaching in work environment knowledge and understanding of the Swedish labour market model among young people. What have we done during our seven years of government? We have strengthened health and safety policy with more than SEK 100 million. Among other things, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been able to hire more inspectors and increase the presence at the workplace. Over the past few years, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has employed more than 150 new occupational health and safety inspectors, and the number of inspections has increased sharply. In 2019, more than 10,000 more inspections were carried out than in 2016. We have built up the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak, in Gävle, to create the conditions for a healthy and sustainable working life and drive the research for this. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has developed regulations for the organizational and social work environment. The new regulations clarify the employer's responsibility for preventing unhealthy workload, stress, bullying and physical ill health. The provisions became applicable on 31 March 2016. Lex Laval has been demolished, and new posting rules have been in place since 30 June 2020. There is a review of labour migration, and I have great hopes for better regulation. We'll see when it comes. The government has taken a strong stand against the crime of working life. A new joint agency operation has been launched where police, tax and health and safety at work work together. Over 5 300 unannounced checks have been carried out in the last three years. I and some colleagues had the privilege of attending just such a check in Malmö a couple of weeks ago. It was extremely interesting. I call on colleagues in the committee to take this opportunity to follow one of these unannounced and coordinated controls involving several authorities. It really gives a picture of what today's labour market in Sweden looks like in this part. Also important is that we have raised the corporate fine significantly, from SEK 10 million to SEK 500 million. It should hurt if you do not do the right thing or knowingly override rules and legislation. Entrepreneurial responsibility has been introduced for both posted workers and employees employed in Sweden in the construction industry. A worker who does not receive a salary for the work he or she has carried out in the construction contract shall be able to be paid in accordance with the salary requirement of another contractor in the construction chain. The construction industry says you're starting to see a change, but we need to do more. We have fought for the Regional Safety Officers. The government presented a sharp bill to increase access rights for regional safety representatives. The proposal was voted down by the right majority in the Riksdag, but we continue to fight for the safety representatives' opportunity to do a vital job. A government investigation has been set up, which is tasked with making proposals on how to give regional safety representatives better opportunities to carry out their work. The report must be presented by 15 August 2022. I hope that it will lead to an increased opportunity for our regional safety representatives, in particular to gain access rights. Several measures in the field of road haulage have been taken. Higher fines and the possibility of wheel locking, so-called ‘sticking', have been introduced. The traffic police have received more resources, and the client responsibility has been increased so that all clients in a contract chain can be held responsible. Around 400 police and car inspectors have been further trained to improve checks on heavy goods vehicles on the road, in particular cabotage, and flying inspections. But, as I said, there is more to do, and we are doing a never-ending job to improve the working environment and to ensure that employers assume their responsibilities here. I look forward with confidence to 2022 and coming years because there is a broad political approach by the parties in this House to drive and develop this work – although the way forward is crooked. Madam President, I would like I refer to my previous motion.
i-26bab3612af8008c-400	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Andersson for a very good speech. After 26 years as a construction worker and a number of years as a safety representative, I agree with Johan Andersson about much of what he describes. I am pleased that the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have been able to make decisions together. Without the Swedish Democrats, there would have been no change in the lex Laval and the Posting Act. I see that we also have common views on labour migration and such things, so I hope that we can join forces on more issues. There are between 20 000 and 30 000 local safety representatives in Sweden. What is the Social Democrats' proposal to enable us to engage more people to become safety representatives? Today, large parts of the workforce are left out because the union has the right of veto and denies people with interest and commitment to become safety representatives.
i-5sW5FW77UbrVcUArUBTcDB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Persson, for the question! I think it is very much about strengthening local trade union work. It is important to ensure that there is a trade union influence in the workplace and an opportunity for work. It is above all about the value and importance of it. I myself have a long trade union background within the Association of Local Workers. I have worked very much with protection work outside and with the opportunity to engage members to take trade union assignments. It is not as simple today as it was perhaps in the early 90s or in the mid-80s when I started working in the trade unions, but there are many other things that are poking at. It is also a question of giving values and opportunities to do so. It is important not least to talk about the possibility of influencing your daily work situation. It has become much tougher today than it was when I was working in the trade union work. I think it is very much about pushing and showing the improvements that are being made in the working environment out there. I know the public sector very well. There I see a lot has happened. But I also see a lot of setbacks that have come, and there is above all work to be done. The answer to the question is that the trade unions and, of course, the employer have a huge responsibility to recruit safety representatives out there.
i-26bab3612af8008c-408	Madam President, I would like I agree with you to a large extent. I have also been a trade unionist myself. Unfortunately, however, I was no longer allowed to do so in the run-up to the 2010 elections because I had the wrong party sympathies. I believe that trade union work should be depoliticised and the Danish model looked at so that more people can have the chance to become safety representatives. Today, the union is very politicised. The union has a veto right today. And that's a problem. I do not think that political opinions should be involved in the work environment, but that should apply to all employees. I have one more question that I would like to ask Johan Andersson here. This applies to work environment management, where we agree on many issues. I am a little confused about why the Social Democrats constantly say no to extended limitation periods for occupational health and safety crimes. It is also something you have gone to elections on. There is a LO decision on that where you have promised to run it in the Swedish Parliament. The question has now been on the table for three years, I think. Yet you consistently vote against it. I'd like to know why you do it.
i-26bab3612af8008c-412	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I made an exposé of what has happened in the field of health and safety at work during the seven years we have held government ownership. There has really been a development in the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, the company bot and many other parts. What is interesting from the question Magnus Persson has is the presumption part. We still have to deal with that issue. I hope that after the months we have now until the elections, we will have a Social Democratic-led government where we can take the next step in the work environment.
i-26bab3612af8008c-414	Madam President, I would like In a debate on the labour market and working life, it feels extremely relevant to highlight such an important issue as health and safety at work. Work environment issues are constantly on the agenda. It's also something that worries people. Therefore, the subject can and must also be dealt with frequently until we have a better and safer working environment for the country's workers. A good working environment is of great importance for growth and employment as well as for good, equal and equal health. The development of fatal accidents continues in the opposite direction to the government's so-called zero vision. It was also part of the Government's previous strategy for health and safety at work for 2016 – 2020 and is now included with the same goal in the new strategy for 2021 – 2025. We had only a few years ago an amazing number of fatal accidents. It was 58 in a year. The cut is still in one fatal accident a week. That is, of course, both terrible and totally unacceptable. The pandemic has led to reductions in the number of deaths, but it can be attributed to fewer being in work. The statistics are therefore not relevant either. The increase in the number of fatal accidents has to some extent been recognised, and that is a good thing. But the negative trend continues. Now we need new concrete measures that really improve the situation. The current ones are obviously not enough. As I said, developments are going in the wrong direction. Factors that are well known are, among other things, that authorities do not cooperate. The police and prosecutors – yes, the judiciary as a whole – have had too little resources to investigate precisely occupational health and safety crimes. In the KD-SD-M budget, we are spending much more money on the justice system. It now allows for improvement measures in this area. The limitation periods for work environment offences of normal grade and serious work environment offences are too short. Work-environment crimes do not even have time to be investigated until the limitation period has expired. We Moderates have pushed that the limitation period should be doubled for both work environment offences of normal grade and serious work environment offences. The Swedish Work Environment Authority needs more resources to increase the number of inspections. The M-KD-SD budget also offers an opportunity for this. We spend as much as 50 million more than the government on getting more supervision, increased number of inspections and efforts against occupational health and safety crime. All that can now be made possible through this budget. These are measures that are directly necessary. In our budget, we want special supervision of the psychosocial working environment in occupational groups with high sick leave. Add also annual follow-up of systematic work environment work on both psychosocial and physical work environment. The Swedish Work Environment Authority will also strengthen supervision of and be able to impose sanctions on employers in occupational groups with particularly high sick leave. There is absolutely a great deal of responsibility for employers, workers, trade unions and, not least, for the government to ensure that the working environment conditions are acceptable and good. Current efforts are clearly not enough, and new strategies will have to be presented. People's lives and health are at stake. Madam President, I would like Sons, daughters, parents... yes, everyone... should be able to safely go to work and come home again. This is not the case today, and it is totally unacceptable. Workers should be able to maintain their physical and mental health at their workplace. It is also particularly worrying that reports of occupational diseases among women due to organisational and social problems have increased for seven consecutive years. So it's not linked to the pandemic. We have had proposals for improvements in this area through the Committee of the Moderates for many years. The high number of occupational diseases has not received the attention it deserves, and that is remarkable. Of course, health and safety-related diseases have significant negative consequences and suffering for the individual, but it is also a socio-economic accident. It is important to continue to improve the working environment in order to prevent ill health and accidents and to prevent people from being excluded from working life. This is particularly true in order to allow a longer working life. In women-coded sectors, the conditions for work and the working environment are worse. This entails a higher risk of ill health and also a higher risk of the employee leaving the job as a result of ill health or dissatisfaction with the conditions in the workplace. Given the high skill shortages in several welfare professions in the public sector, the conditions for employees need to be improved – otherwise people will not be able to attract. Consider that the healthcare sector needs 200 000 new employees by 2026. Madam President, I would like Already before the pandemic, one in three women had been ill because of the job in the last 12 months. Note: every third woman. Two thirds of all people with work-related problems suffer from physical pain and pain. Problems with neck, shoulders and arms are also common. Of course, this also affects sleep and stress levels. In this context, too, I would like to highlight new incidents in the wake of the pandemic. The police have received thousands of reports of incidents and occupational injuries linked to the spread of infection. Threats to police in intervention occur, and this is a very serious health and safety problem. Many employees in different industries have enormous and unacceptable health and safety problems. The focus has been placed on the areas of soil, forest, transport, construction and most recently, thank God, the welfare sector. Nevertheless, let us not forget other sectors with at least the same problems in this area. The police are one of them. Madam President, I would like The budget presented by M, KD and SD has won in Parliament. It now enables large-scale demand for initiatives in the field of health and safety at work. Increased resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority means more supervision, inspection and education. Add preventive measures to combat occupational crime. We have a coherent chain of means to improve the situation in the area of health and safety at work. Police officers, prosecutors and the judiciary at large also have the opportunity, through our budget, to act in a much better way. They also show gratitude for the allocation of resources. The government will now deliver on our intentions, and we will follow this work very closely, for the sake of the individual, but also for the sake of growth, employment, health, equality and equality. Everything else is unacceptable, and the government now bears a great responsibility.
i-26bab3612af8008c-439	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Quicklund, for your speech. I have two questions. When you read the budget report from the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, you can see that you are naturally investing in the working environment, and that is a good thing. The way in which this is financed, by sharply cutting other labour market policies, is, of course, less good. Anna Johansson has also explained this with merit. I have a question about the Moderate Budget Movement. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work is being shut down, which later was not heard in the budget negotiated with KD and SD. Instead, even a higher allocation is given. How do the Moderates reason on the proposal to close down the authority which, then, a month later, is so valuable that even additional funds are being spent? I do not really follow the logic of how the moderate parliamentary group has reasoned.
i-26bab3612af8008c-441	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Andersson for meeting me in the debate. I know that Johan Andersson has a genuine interest in these issues. We also sit both in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's Transparency Council and therefore have extra knowledge. It is also necessary for a social democrat to ask for a response to a moderate on these issues in a debate. The M-KD-SD budget therefore spends 50 million more on the Swedish Work Environment Agency, which leads to more inspections, better supervision and measures against labour crime. Johan Andersson should be exulting over this budget. Many others are working in this area. The frustration should be great for the Social Democrats. The zero vision of the number of fatal accidents has failed. The limitation periods are too long; we do not have time to investigate work environment crimes. Occupational diseases are increasing, especially in the women-dominated sector. Accidents at work have increased dramatically. The police don't have enough resources. They don't have time to investigate. Labour crime is growing with the policies of the Social Democrats. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, with 60 000 companies connected to it, claims that they lack support and supervision to be able to work optimally with the work environment issues. We have authorities that do not cooperate with any more. We can continue in the next line shift. So to the question of Mynak. Johan Andersson is clearly aware of the maladministration at the expert authority in the area of health and safety at work. We have had consultants to supervise the expert authority regarding the work environment. There have been violations and so on. Consultants and workers have quit. It is also about efficiency efficiency; the Swedish Work Environment Authority should take over these tasks.
i-26bab3612af8008c-446	Madam President, I would like I thought the honourable Member would never come to an answer about Mynak when there was so much else being said. But at the end it came. I have the privilege of sitting on Mynak's Transparency Council, together with a representative from the moderate parliamentary group. There we have received very good reports on the work environment that you have internally at the agency. For my part, I feel perfectly at peace with the fact that a great deal of the question marks that existed in the light of a DN article a few years ago have been straightened out. I hope this is not the reason why the Moderates want to close down the Authority for work environment knowledge, because then you're in a lot of trouble. In that case, there are more authorities and organisations that may need to be closed down. I don't think it's that simple. The Moderates were very driving when the Institute for Working Life was shut down – an authority that I know very well, not as a Member of Parliament but as a trade union representative. We benefited greatly from the activities carried out in Norrköping. They did a great deal of work, especially in terms of research into working life at large and not just work environment work, something that was very neglected. Since then, things have happened in Sweden. Several colleges are working on these issues today. But there is no uniting authority for this, as Mynak is. I and we Social Democrats have high hopes that a very good result will be achieved. There is a lot of interesting research going on in the footsteps of the pandemic. I think once again, Saila Quicklund, that you will be the answer when it comes to the closure of the Authority for working environment knowledge.
i-26bab3612af8008c-451	Madam President, I would like To deepen the discussion about Mynak a little bit, Johan Andersson is, as I have said, clearly aware of the shortcomings in the area of health and safety at work that initially prevailed within the Agency. Staff stopped, and there were direct violations. We had consultants inside who were supposed to supervise the expert authority's staff on health and safety at work. Of course this is unacceptable. I am surprised that the Social Democrats have not addressed these problems. I know that the Director-General was named to the then Minister for Labour, who took this very seriously. This is the authority Johan Andersson defends. We have said that this knowledge and the mediation of this research may lie on other entities. So it is not a question of removing this. The subject as such is important, but it is about efficiency efficiency. It is also generally the work of the Moderates to review the authorities and efficiency. When it came to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, during the alliance period we had 31 000 inspections in 2013. With the Social Democrats in charge, we had 27 000 inspections in 2018 plus 87 more people. These are management, management, efficiency objectives and monitoring of operations. This does not seem to be what the Social Democrats are living by. I think I have answered these very questions. We will certainly have reason to continue discussing this in other contexts, but it is therefore about efficiency efficiency and keeping research and so on, but at another instance, such as the Swedish Work Environment Authority.
i-26bab3612af8008c-456	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that we are three members who go up here in the speaker's chair specifically to talk about working life and the working environment and that it is the same three members who sit in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's Transparency Council. Madam President, I would like All people have the right to work in a safe and secure working environment that provides professional and personal development – a work environment that allows them to complete their working life while maintaining physical and mental health. Today there are major shortcomings in the working environment in the Swedish labour market. LO has analysed how the working environment and work-related health have changed during the period 1990-2016. The analysis shows that many aspects of the work environment have deteriorated over time. The deteriorations follow strikingly often patterns related to class and gender. Women in working-class occupations are the hardest hit by health and safety problems, while men in senior civil servants in many respects have the best working environment. Madam President, I would like The deterioration of the working environment has, of course, several reasons. The shift of power in the labour market to the benefit of employers, increased profitability requirements in the business sector and cuts and new control systems based on market thinking in public activities have led to the emergence of new hierarchic organisations. Savings and rationalisation often lead to increased stress and excitement in the workplace. The research shows links between work-related ill health and slim organisations with high performance requirements and the lack of democracy in working life. Madam President, I would like Lack of influence has become a risk factor for increased ill health in working life. High workload, stress and low staffing lead to injuries, ill health and workplace accidents, which in some cases are unfortunately fatal. A report from the Swedish Work Environment Authority shows that the incidence of work-related stress has increased significantly since the early 80s. Researchers estimate that work-related mortality due to stress will continue to increase in the future. Since 2010, stress-related mental illness has dominated sickness absence. In 2019 70 000 people were sick because of stress-related mental illness, of which 75 per cent were women. Year after year, it is the same occupational groups that are most affected: so-called contact professions in health care, school, care and social services. According to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's report Arbetsförsäkringar (Arbetsmiljöverket) 2018, nearly three out of ten employed persons suffered as a result of their work during the last year. Women, again, had more trouble than men. Too much workload was the most common cause of work-related problems. Fatigue and physical pain and aches were the most common symptoms. The reported occupational injuries for 2020 show that the number of occupational accidents with sick leave decreased slightly compared to 2019. However, in 2020 the number of occupational diseases reported increased significantly compared to 2019, which of course can be attributed to the pandemic. In 2020 there were 24 fatal accidents at work in the Swedish labour force. This is a decrease compared to the previous two years. Men were more frequently affected than women by fatal accidents at work and also reported accidents at work leading to absenteeism. However, women reported more occupational diseases and accidents without sick leave than men. Madam President, I would like Many people, of course, enjoy their jobs, and there has been a huge amount of progress, especially with regard to the physical working environment. However, progress in health and safety at work is often taken for granted when the average standard of living improves. This should also be the case, but in practice success, such as the long-term decline in the number of fatal accidents, is something that must be fought out and put forth efforts to maintain. It is high time to tackle both old lingering and new and growing problems and reverse developments. Untenable stress must be brought to an end. It is high time to shift the focus from individual responsibility to unsustainable structures in the working environment. The conditions of working life need to be reformed. The development of the bourgeois government in 2006–2014 was a major weakening of preventive work environment work. The appropriations for the Swedish Work Environment Authority were cut, the funds for the qualified safety representative training were removed and the Swedish Work Life Institute was closed. During the 2014 – 2018 term, the Left Party and the S – MP government carried out several important reforms in the area of health and safety at work: the Agency's funding was strengthened, the state contribution for regional safety representatives was increased and a new authority, as we have heard discussed earlier, Mynak, that is, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, was established with a very important and long-awaited function that had been completely lacking in Sweden since the bourgeois government shut down the Labour Institute. During the 2018–22 term of office, the S-MP government and its bourgeois co-operative parties have unfortunately chosen to prioritise tax reductions for high-income workers over further reforms in the field of health and safety at work. According to the paper Work, which examined the Swedish work environment work, Sweden invests significantly less in the work environment than our Nordic neighbours do in terms of the number of employees. Overall, the work's review shows serious problems and shortcomings in the Swedish work environment, which ultimately threatens workers' lives and health. To counter this trend, strong action is needed. I am looking at the clock a little bit, Madam President, because I could line up and develop all the proposals, but I am content to list just a few: health care for all workers, strengthening the role of safety representatives and their training, increasing access rights for regional safety representatives, requirements for health and safety training for companies who want to employ, a crisis commission against accidents at work, a law against harassment at work and strengthening the judicial work of, among other things, occupational health and safety. Then there are many proposals relating to working hours, such as limiting shared trips, having better and simpler rules on daily rest periods and the right to increased employment rates in the event of continuous extra time. Madam President, I would like As you may understand, I and the Left Party really want to highlight that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has a central role in the work for a better working environment. The efforts to strengthen the resources for the agency that the government started together with the Left Party in the last parliamentary term really need to continue. When I hear Johan Andersson speak, I am happy, because I hear that there are many of the proposals that we share commitment to. I very much hope that we can push them forward. The Swedish Work Environment Authority needs increased resources to prioritise the work on supervision, inspection and control. As mentioned above, the Authority also needs to be given more resources for specific tasks in the form of supervision efforts, analyses, knowledge compilations and more. This also applies to the resources of the safety representatives. Safety representatives play an important and central role in systematic and preventive work environment management. It is important that resources are actually allocated to strengthen training efforts. I note that the Left Party's proposal represents a broad and ambitious work environment effort in a way that the other parties unfortunately do not seem to see the same need for. I have no other pleas than those of my colleague, Ali Esbati. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Chamber, the Bureau, the staff of the committee and the audience a real red Christmas.
i-26bab3612af8008c-475	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's SfU1 report on Category 10. We Social Democrats are not taking part in the decision but are developing our position in our joint special opinion and that of the Green Party. Workable health insurance is an important part of well-being. Just as we expect school, health care and care to work, we must be able to trust that our health insurance is there and provide us with the security we can demand when we need it. For a long time, however, we know that this is not the case. Health insurance hasn't given everyone the security it should have. Some have had to go back to work sick. Others have had to go down in working hours. Before we Social Democrats abolished the headstock, severely ill people were forced to seek new employment or, in the worst case, support for livelihoods. Against this background, the government has developed several proposals to make our health insurance safe and better functioning once again. I am pleased and proud that later today we will be voting on a number of improvements and reinforcements in health insurance, in sickness and activity benefits and for the elderly and for the disabled. During the term of office, the Socialist-led government has started work on improving health insurance. We have implemented a change of law at 180 days which means that up to 90 percent fewer are rejected today compared to the same time a year ago. More people will be able to get rehabilitation; more will be able to get well. If more speaks for than against you coming back to work with your employer, you should be entitled to continue with rehabilitation and the right to sickness benefit. We're out of jobs. We have changed the concept of the labour market, a profound injustice that meant that the Social Insurance Agency did not have to explain what jobs it was expected to manage. A more understandable health insurance actually requires decisions that you understand and can accept. This amendment will be implemented next year. We have reinforced health insurance as part of pandemic support. We have introduced a carer's allowance which enabled ordinary workers, including those who cannot flex, to stay at home. We have also introduced an exemption for trial against the rehabilitation chain if one has suffered from a cancellation of care or action due to covid-19. It is a change that will apply to the whole of 2022. We have conducted investigations, with the help of investigators Claes Jansson and Samuel Engblom, with a clear focus on how to implement the improvements. We have also worked with the governance of the authorities. We are now moving on and improving health insurance with increased flexibility in trial at day 365, changes in work ability assessment from the age of 62 for sickness benefit and more flexible organisation of working time in the case of part-time sick leave, which makes it easier to work with rehabilitation. We are moving forward with the relief of sickness benefit for those who are in need, i.e. for the many people, especially young people and in women-dominated professions, who are currently working in precarious jobs such as SMS jobs. They are also entitled to sickness benefit. We are moving forward with increased income ceilings in health insurance from eight to ten prisba amounts. We're strengthening health insurance. We also investigate the withdrawal allowance to look at how everyone who works in professions where you risk getting sick often but do not have the opportunity to flex out the sick day should get better conditions. Madam President, I would like For some this comes as a surprise, but we live in a class society. One of our greatest injustices today is how class, gender, and background still affect our lives. Especially hard are affected those who work in a profession with a physical and tough working environment. Today's regulations in sickness and activity compensation are a remnant from the alliance years. There's no distinction between a 34-year-old or 64-year-old. The demands for conversion often force older people away from their jobs. Those who are at the end of their working life and do not receive the aid are therefore forced to withdraw their old-age pension earlier. It is unfair, and it contributes to lifelong poverty. That is why the proposal on insurance pensions is important. We need specific rules for older people who have little time left in their professional lives. This will make it easier for the assistant nurse who has taken care of the elderly but who, due to heavy lifting and pressured work environment, cannot manage all the way to retirement. This will avoid premature retirement of the concrete worker who has lost his working capacity. It'll help the nurse and the cleaner. It is a fair reform. It is long-awaited, and it meets many in LO professions who have built our country throughout their working lives with their bodies. Madam President, I would like What exactly does M, KD and SD stand for? I think there's a lot of people asking us that. If you look at your joint reservation, which led to a draft budget that we are going to adopt here, you can see that health insurance is not mentioned. If you look at your individual movements, you can see that it is very sprawling. The Moderates are dismissing virtually all the improvements we are making here today. They're proposing billions of savings on the sickest. They propose new days of withdrawal and dismiss the insurance pension. At the same time, however, we stand here today and have only one proposal for a decision: the proposal of the Social Democrats and the Green Party to Parliament. You only agree on one thing in our area of expenditure: savings. You're cutting down on the Social Insurance Fund's money. One direct consequence is that you make life much more difficult for all parents of young children who are now funding family week with their own money. You also choose to maintain a deeply unjust but bourgeois principle in the tax system when you reintroduce the funkis tax. This leads to the question: who is in charge of this coalition? Please tell us if the precipice comes back and if you will withdraw our financial improvements to the compensations. Tell the country's older people who work and work with their bodies but who are no longer able to work right up to retirement if it is they who will pay your tax cuts for the rich. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that health insurance is part of our welfare. Those who are ill should be able to feel secure and receive support and rehabilitation. We pay together, and when we need to get financial security and help with the right efforts. Income must be protected. The improvements in this budget reinforce the principle of loss of income, and many more will have their income protected by disease. It's a question of justice. You're supposed to get what you pay for. But it is also a matter of decency. Poverty doesn't make anyone healthy. The Government's draft budget takes major steps forward. Today, we are strengthening the economy of hundreds of thousands of people. We're improving insurance cover. We strengthen the economy of many people with disabilities through increased housing allowance ceilings and basic levels of sickness benefit. And we're taking away the funkis tax. Today, I am both proud and pleased that we in this House seem to agree that social security must work better. But we know that these improvements are not for ever. That is why efforts to improve welfare must continue. For us Social Democrats it is clear and clear, and the choice is simple. We put investment in our common welfare before tax cuts for those with the most money. Having said that, I would like to wish the staff of the cabinet, all those who have listened, the members of the committee and the President a good weekend and a happy new year.
i-26bab3612af8008c-497	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Vepsä for his speech. I was almost waiting for the funkis tax to come up, so that everyone can hear in a line change how it really is. But first of all, I would like to say that I think it is a little dishonest for Mr Vepsä to say that we are not mentioning anything about health insurance. Vepsä has been in Parliament for a while now and knows that what is mentioned above all are the differences that exist. The fact that it says so little is because there are only a few small things that differ – it is then a matter of administrative costs for the family week. Otherwise, we agree. We support and support health insurance reforms. Vepsä should think it's good. Instead, he says that we do not mention health insurance. That is because there are no dividing lines there and we are behind these important reforms. Then where are we in health insurance? Yes, we have for several years in Parliament proposed an increase in the guarantee level of sickness benefit, but the Social Democrats have voted against it. We have proposed strengthening the housing supplement, but the Social Democrats have voted against it. We have proposed changes at day 180 and day 365, but the Social Democrats have voted against. It is great that there are finally reforms in health insurance. As far as the functional tax is concerned, the single biggest effort we make in the budget is to strengthen the economy of people with sickness and activity benefits. We reduce the tax by 10 000 kroner a year. We increase the guarantee level by 1,000 SEK per month. If, then, we were to introduce a new tax so that there would be a tax increase, that is not true. We are introducing a job tax deduction, and there will be a small difference. But the big difference is being removed now, and the economy is improving significantly for this group. It's very important that it comes out.
i-26bab3612af8008c-501	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Julia for her speech. Let's start with the small difference in tax between those who have disabilities or are ill and those who work. It is a small difference, but it reveals a lot about the direction you have and the priorities you make when you get the chance to control. In the Government's proposal for an acquisition tax deduction, it is about reducing the tax rate equally for everyone plus making these changes in sickness and activity benefits and in the housing supplement, so that we strengthen the economy of the most vulnerable in our society. But when you get the chance in this coalition, you choose to show which direction future tax cuts will go. Eight years with an alliance government has led the way. Job tax deductions built this deep injustice into the system. I think this is a big and important proof of how to make your priorities, rather than a small difference. When you look at the proposals we are debating today in our area of expenditure, you can see that, on point by point, our proposals are on the table. These are our investigative proposals, and it is our government that has tabled the draft budget. You have actually chosen to support it. It is clear that we are grateful for this support and think it is important. Nevertheless, the question to Julia Kronlid is: Who will determine future social security? Is it the Moderates, with the withdrawal of carers, the removal of replacement levels and the continuing priorities of reducing taxes for the richest?
i-26bab3612af8008c-505	Madam President, I would like As far as priorities are concerned, I would like to say once again that this is a group that we have prioritised. It is a big bet, and a lot of resources are spent on removing this previous difference in tax. We reduce the tax by 10 000 SEK per year and increase the guarantee level by 1 000 SEK per month. It is a group that is a priority in this budget. No one should think otherwise. Nor must we forget that it is the Social Democrats who have not given priority to health insurance in the past during these two mandates. It is great that it comes now in the last draft budget. But it is the Social Democrats' management of health insurance, where earlier there was a numerical target for how many people were allowed to be on sick leave, which has led to an avalanche increase in insurance. After all, it is the Social Democrats who have made a mess of it in health insurance, very much through governance. Then it is great that there are new regulations and reforms. But will you change the governance so that it really makes a difference?
i-26bab3612af8008c-507	Madam President, I would like Let's talk history! Often in the budget debates it sounds like this from the Swedish Democrats: make proposals for improvements in social security, in welfare and for employees in the labour market, and we vote for them! But who is to put forward the proposals in an M-SD-KD government? In the individual budgetary motions that you have put forward, it is saving billion-dollar savings on the most vulnerable in our society. Our story is that we've raised the ceiling of the medical allowance. We did it in 2005 and 2006 for the elections. We did it during the last parliamentary term. Let's do it again now. It is part of social democratic welfare policy. There's nothing here. Let's talk about history and responsibility and how we govern! Then we can come back after the elections with new proposals for improvements.
i-26bab3612af8008c-509	Madam President, I would like We put welfare before tax cuts for the richest, said the Member of Parliament in his speech. Let me remind the honourable Member who abolished the military tax. We did not do it, but it was a Social Democratic-led government. This funkis tax thing is a political spin. There's no funkis treasure. What is true is that no other group gets greater improvements with our budget from KD, M and SD than just those with sickness and activity benefits. We raise the guarantee level by SEK 1,000 and reduce the tax by SEK 850. In addition, we are making improvements to the housing supplement. All in all, this means that there are several people who get up to a few thousand more a month. That is the truth behind this. Is there, then, a difference in taxation? The answer is yes. It does. And that depends in many ways on the government we have now. We have a long-term unemployment rate that is sticking to a very high level. You would deliver Europe's lowest unemployment. That was the promise. We know how it went. We are at the very bottom with Greece, Spain and Italy. All this welfare that we are talking about in this area of expenditure comes from somewhere, namely from people working and paying taxes and contributions. It is a prerequisite for welfare. Getting people to work is a very priority. It should also be for the government that is sitting now. My counter-question to the Member of Parliament is: if it is so important that we raise the guarantee level, as both I and the honourable Member think, why did you vote against a year ago when we Christian Democrats put forward a proposal in our budget to raise the level? Was it a no just to say no, or has something happened this year that makes you present that proposal now? A year ago, you voted against increasing the guarantee level of sickness and activity benefit.
i-26bab3612af8008c-513	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eklind for the question. We can begin by looking at the proposal that was on the table of Parliament. There were reinforcements in the 74-billion-dollar class. It was a historic effort to get the country going beyond the pandemic. There was a major effort on welfare as a whole – efforts to strengthen social security, reduce disparities in our society and increase justice, decency and equality, but also to extend the knowledge boost and matching programmes in labour market interventions. On point-by-point, you have at least joined parts of this, and you have made some restrictions on the efforts that we believe do not lead to reducing unemployment or ensuring that more people come into employment. When we restart the economy and make this very important effort to increase justice and equality, we have made the assessment that this is the right time for those who have and have had the toughest in our country to get it better. It has been no secret that we Social Democrats have wanted to carry out reinforcements for those who are receiving sickness and activity benefits or benefits in the framework of health insurance. As I myself mentioned in my speech, there have been a number of investigations going on. This is usually the way to make major improvements in the systems: one investigates and looks, one makes priorities from year to year and then presents proposals to the Riksdag. This year we took the view that, in addition to the financial reinforcements, there would also be a series of improvements in health insurance and in the reimbursement of sickness and activity so that there would be a better financial situation for those in these systems and, in short, also better and fairer systems.
i-26bab3612af8008c-518	Madam President, I would like I think that the improvements that are now being made in the health and activity benefits are necessary and good. What surprises me is the spin you try to make around funkistskatte, and it is for the simple reason that it is dishonest. There is no such treasure. What puzzles me a little bit is that after seven years of government, the government says that it should now get started breaking exclusion and getting people to work. A little mean, you could ask the question what you've been doing for seven years. A more serious question, however, is about unemployment. Entrepreneurship Forum shows that 1.8 million people who could be able to work are not self-sufficient. Then one must surely prioritise and try to solve long-term unemployment and so on. That's what we do in the KD-M-SD budget. Why don't you? Why do you invest in extra services when we know that it is twice as expensive as the new start jobs in our budget?
i-26bab3612af8008c-520	Madam President, I would like Mr Eklind from the Christian Democrats is slipping into another budget area which the House dealt with just before, namely labour market issues. This is how I think: D e improvements we have made for people through historical investments in the knowledge boost in the form of adult education, higher education and university places and, not least, people's education, which is close to my heart, has given a lot of people a real opportunity. I also think it is important that we are able to make improvements for those who have the most difficult financial situation. One way to do that is through improvements that we have talked about in our debate, that is, in the health insurance systems that we have to deal with. Another way is to increase investment in welfare with a historic investment in billions that is now going out to strengthen school, health care and long-term care. It is not a political spin to point out that the construction when you choose to make a tax reduction works exactly the same as before: it hits those who do not.
i-26bab3612af8008c-524	Madam President, I would like I chose to take a line because in his speech the honourable Member wrongly claims that, with the budget that is likely to gain approval this afternoon, a fundkis tax would be introduced. There will be no Funki tax at all. There's no funkis treasure. I do not know whether it is a question of dishonesty in the argumentation or whether it is indeed the case that the honourable Member believes that there would in some way be a funkis tax. I understand that it is a little bit about the fact that in the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats we choose to make a job tax deduction of SEK 150 a month for those who work, precisely in order to be able to deal with the long-term unemployment we see growing in Sweden under the current government. It should be borne in mind, however, that the honourable Member also said in his speech that he was pleased that this afternoon we are going to vote for strengthened support for people who have sickness and activity benefits. After all, there is nothing in this area of expenditure or in this budget that would cause the conditions for these people to deteriorate in any way. Rather, they are greatly strengthened. We have heard in previous replica shifts that the economy of people with sickness and activity benefits is strengthened by SEK 850 per month in reduced tax. The fact that we then make a job tax deduction of SEK 150 for those who work does not mean that the conditions for someone else are getting worse, but it is precisely to strengthen the work line.
i-W18UefmfYQBxF4Trawh7ne	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson from the Moderates! Now I've been called a liar by the whole gang, and they say I want to go with untruth. Mattias Karlsson says, on the one hand, that a funkis tax is not introduced; on the other hand, he says that there is a difference in construction. I believe that it will be a focus on the future. This is how you set your priorities. This is how you construct your job tax deduction. We chose another construction, while removing the funkist tax. There's a big difference and nothing I've made up. Member Mattias Karlsson admitted, soon after he said that I made this up, that this construction was true. I've been looking at the joint reservation. You are making a number of priorities and important reforms. However, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats do not actually point out social security as one of the particularly important areas of reform. Then the question comes back to what I raised in my speech: Who controls? What will it look like in Sweden if the accident is there and you win the election next year? Is it the Moderates' health insurance policy that we have been struggling with before to improve so that people get rehabilitation and benefits that can be lived on so that those who are ill do not end up in subsistence support? What will it look like? Will the proposals that you are voting for today, that is to say our proposals, remain in place? To be honest, this was not the case in 2006– 2014, Mattias Karlsson. The first decision you made was to lower the ceiling of the sickness benefit, right?
i-26bab3612af8008c-534	Madam President, I would like I think it would be extremely beneficial if we had a new government that could take advantage of the opportunities that Sweden has. But it is as if the honourable Member does not really understand what is happening and what challenges we see outside the Parliament House. I think it would be beneficial if the honourable Member took the time to look around. We have extremely big challenges that we are trying to solve with the budget that we have now presented. Among other things, it is a job tax deduction that allows us to get more people into work. The honourable Member moves to another area of expenditure when he claims that a functional tax would arise because we are making a job tax deduction. It's not like that. Does the honourable Member think there is a difference between our two proposals here today?
i-26bab3612af8008c-536	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the closing words! Mattias Karlsson himself says that you should break long-term unemployment with this tax reduction. You will increase the momentum for those who are the sickest and those who are disabled by 150 bucks, and while long-term unemployment will fade away. I rather believe that these 80 billion in credit guarantees for the green transition – that is, the industrial revolution that is going on in the Member's home country and around – are more important policies as well as making sure that the gaps that increase polarisation are closed and people end up far apart. Continue to invest in cheap rentals, continue to invest in our suburban areas, ensure that we have a legal system that works and that a school is there when you need a place of education and so on. I know that some of the points on which we are going to vote today are our proposals. Let's get back to our spending area. I don't think it'll make society any better if you hit the sick. Even more sick people in poverty do not solve problems.
i-26bab3612af8008c-540	Madam President, I would like We are here to talk about health insurance in Sweden. I think it is important that insurance should be based on a change for those who are ill, so that they can get back to work. It is important for me that health insurance continues to be based on our helping with rehabilitation, that it should take place early, quickly and be right for the individual. But it must also be based on the fact that there is preventive work so that people do not get sick. It is about my own responsibility for my own health and about the joint responsibility of employers and employees to ensure that there is a working environment. The focus of the work must be coordination and early rehabilitation. It takes far too long today to get started with the first coordination meetings. The problem in health insurance is not that it is unclear what happens at different days in the rehabilitation chain, but that we start work too late. People are allowed to be sick for a long time. Then it needs to be clarified how and who is responsible for ensuring that rehabilitation takes place. Madam President, I would like In our draft budget, we have set aside funds to strengthen and contribute further to the work that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has begun to change and develop its working methods so that it can focus even more on coordination and early rehabilitation. There is another concern, namely the cooperation and collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan. It is about coordinating and working well at an early stage when you see that this probably needs a change for the individual. However, the Public Employment Service also needs to help to support those who do not have a job in order to be able to get a job. Greater coordination is also needed here. Madam President, I would like Let me go back to rehabilitation and prevention. There is also a need for increased knowledge of health care, the Social Insurance Agency and other authorities involved, particularly in the area of mental illness. How can we help these people to get back to work safely and safely? More research and knowledge is needed here. Here, Försäkringskassan has started work to develop working methods. They need to be flexible so that it is not as rigid as today in terms of how many percent of the time you need to be absent to be able to use any of the compensation systems. In the case of entrepreneurs, it is important that there is security to know what support they can get if they suffer from illness. Here we really need to look at whether it would not be better, for example, to calculate their SGI on historical income than we think the future will give. It is quite difficult for an entrepreneur to guess the economy of the future. Then it's better to calculate it on history. That would be clearer. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention a few words about the sickness and activity benefits. It is important that it does not contribute to the lock-in effects of people starting their professional career with an activity benefit due to a disability. It is important to see these people's opportunities to take a job as well. It is something that needs to be started with an attitude already when these people go to school, that is, it is not about having an activity compensation or being in any kind of daily activity. It should be about being able to get a job on the regular labour market – with support in some cases and in the long run perhaps without support. But there should be flexibility here. You should not have to be afraid of losing your remuneration if you try to work. Here, too, I would like to see flexibility in how many percent it is about trying to work, run a business or study. Madam President, I would like I summarise the importance of early rehabilitation and coordination for the functioning of our health insurance systems. The Social Insurance Agency needs to continue the work that has begun to ensure that these things work. We will continue to discuss and press for better prevention and for sickness benefit to be a conversion insurance. I refer to our special opinion on the budget and take the opportunity to wish everyone who listens and the President a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-26bab3612af8008c-552	Madam President, I would like I thank Martina Johansson for her speech. I have a few thoughts. The investments in the Budget Movement of the Center Party are almost exclusively on the tax side and are aimed almost exclusively at profitable companies. Member Martina Johansson points out that disabled people may need more help to get a job in the labour market. Would it not be better to fully subsidise the employment of people with disabilities instead of pumping out large-scale industry subsidies to those who already have jobs and who, according to all the assessors, do not provide a single new job but just clutter at the checkout for, for example, restaurant chains such as McDonalds – if you are really interested in doing something about the situation? How does the Center Party, which repeatedly calls the proposals that the Left Party has got through in the government's budget for grant policy? What is benefit policy when everyone who works has allocated part of their salary to our common social security policies? When we're sick, we'll be entitled to them. What in it is subsidy policy, says the Center Party? Why is the possibility of people who have been ill a little longer to receive an extension of sickness benefit rejected? You mean miraculously getting well, the Center Party? How is that supposed to happen? Is it just words and flossles about someone coordinating better? Are you going to do this in some other miraculous way?
i-26bab3612af8008c-555	Madam President, I would like When people with disabilities or with other difficulties need help to enter the labour market, they should feel that they have a job to go to. They shall be given the opportunity to obtain employment on their own terms. They should feel that they have their own value as human beings. To assume that there should be a grant to hire the person means for me that that person would not be able to do the job on his own. I believe that support is needed. I may need help with training or supervision. But the person must believe that he can get his own employment on his own wages, which can be partially subsidised. But that should not be the starting point for a full-time subsidised employment. All people should have an opportunity if they get the right support. This responds a little to the question of aid policy, namely that we do not expect people to have opportunities. I am fully aware that there are people who will not manage on their own, but this is not the case for the majority of those who today need help. A lot of people would be on their own. In terms of subsidizing large companies and how we should look at those pieces, it is not for me that large companies are using systems, but for me it is about giving people the chance to get their first job so that they can feel their own worth, earn their money and ultimately get a good pension.
i-26bab3612af8008c-559	Madam President, I would like The subsidies don't give a single new job. Then it is better to spend the funds only on those who are unemployed. Then I do not know if McDonald's restaurants also feel offended that they receive subsidies and support and are not believed to stand on their own feet. I've had a salary allowance when I was sick. I thought it felt awfully good. Now I have made it all the way to Parliament, so it can work out for us too. Think you do in church, I think, not in parliament. That's where you act. Sickness and activity benefit is not a conversion insurance, especially with sickness benefit, but with people who have chronic diseases. With regard to day 365 and those deadlines, we have seen record insurance, and it is record hard to get sick pay today. The honourable Member and I seem to be living in somewhat different realities in terms of the country's actual situation.
i-26bab3612af8008c-563	Madam President, I would like The fact that subsidies or tax reductions targeted at different groups do not provide a single new job can be seen from different perspectives. For me, it's also about people getting a job. It provides tax revenue that also generates revenue for our common well-being. Maybe I wasn't clear. I do not mean that it is wrong to use it so that you can get wage subsidies. The point for me is that that's not what should be the main focus. For me, the main focus should be that all people can, as I think. When you can't get support. As far as insurance is concerned, what I said in my speech was that we must start working with people on time so that they can be helped to get back to work. That's the most important thing. We need clear hold-ups to ensure that people do not get the support. That is what it is all about for me, and it is already possible today to make individual assessments.
i-26bab3612af8008c-566	Madam President, I would like For many years we have had ill-functioning health insurance in Sweden. People don't get what they're entitled to. Thousands of sick and disabled people have been thrown out of the system. Society has lost control of social security, and insurance has been carried out on an ongoing basis. For those affected, this has had disastrous consequences. The whole of life has been broken down, and for some there has been no alternative but to take one's own life felt possible. It is a huge scandal and a great disgrace to the welfare country of Sweden. In Christmastimes, belief in the power of miracles, that desires can come true and hope can come true, alive. But politics is not about believing, hoping and wishing. Those of us who are elected by the people to represent the citizens, should act decisively and not close their eyes or, above all, act as chatterers. The promises we make will be fulfilled. I understand that many people have lost faith in politics after all these years of deterioration. Politicians say one thing but do another, because the political decisions made have been completely different from what was promised in the election movement. Madam President, I would like Instead, the Left Party will stand for what we promised. We represent our constituents, not ourselves. We compromise and are constructive, but we demand political influence on our core issues if our mandate is required. Someone here wondered why this is happening now. Then I can tell you that secret: it is because for the first time in this parliamentary term the Left Party is needed. That is why health insurance is being upgraded now after the end of the year. Of course, the investigations have been set up by the government. They have been around longer than most, and the levels of compensation have been raised all the time. But now the Liberals are no longer involved, and the Left Party was needed in the budget vote. The Left Party made demands for change from the beginning when the insurance was rescheduled, and now several steps are being taken for a better health insurance. Although the Center Party chose to release a right-wing nationalist budget, all left-wing changes to health insurance remain, and most of them will take effect in January. It's not a little thing we're talking about. These are the following: More than today will be granted the right to compensation.
i-26bab3612af8008c-577	The functional tax is removed so that everyone with sickness and activity benefits has the same level of taxation as other employees this year.
i-26bab3612af8008c-579	In addition, this spring the government will present our proposal to increase the remuneration of the most deprived pensioners by a guarantee supplement of up to SEK 1 000 tax-free per month to over 700 000 pensioners. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the Center Party call this a subsidy policy and continue to implement inefficient tax cuts. Liberals even drum up the Moderates in their budget exercise and spend the least of all parties on health insurance. The Swedish democrats, who often talk about sick people, have not got through a single thing in health insurance in the joint reservation with M and KD. Only left-wing reforms are what will now be implemented. Instead, M, KD and SD are lowering taxes again only for those who are currently working. Therefore, a new penalty tax is created for the country's sickness pensioners. It's bad. It is perhaps not so strange that the right is against a reinforced health insurance. It should pay to work, they say, but they do not understand that working social security schemes where everyone who works allocated a share of their own salary is one that the most important systems if we are to have strong and secure employees in Sweden. Instead, they have imported an American work line where wage developments are held back. Instead of strong change insurance and strong job policies, politicians have acted to make wage earners insecure and poor through record low pay levels. Many are not even entitled to the low level of compensation, but are forced to make a living at best from relatives or social services. Instead, tax subsidies and sector aid to already profitable multi-billion-dollar companies have been implemented. The Centre Party's reduction in the social security contribution mainly benefits the large chains in the restaurant industry and costs more than most of the reforms currently being implemented in health insurance – while according to their own fiscal council and others it does not create a single new job. Madam President, I would like The Alliance implemented the current system in 2008. They emerged as healers of the new age who, unlike Sweden's accumulated medical corps, medical expertise and the prevailing research situation through a magic spell, were able to cure as many as 90 000 sick. Under the new law and the new criteria of the unemployment fund, the rehabilitation chain performed miracles. Lama could not only stand up and walk, but, according to the Authority's assessment, they could take any job – or a so-called normal job. It was just to put your mind to it and choose joy. Get up and stand up! Madam President, I would like Along with S and MP, the Left Party removed the lower time limit, the so-called precipice log. The Alliance and the Swedish Democrats did not give up in the first place but voted to reintroduce the precipice as late as 2017. Still today, despite the facts in hand, several parties want to reintroduce it. Unfortunately, though, the time of miracles was not over because we changed the government. The S-MP government introduced targets for sick days in 2015 and then quadrupled the rejections without any change in legislation at day 180 and day 365. During a burning pandemic, record numbers were secured. Now the targets are to be removed. Left party KU-announced and made demands on the government, and therefore the regulation letter was updated this spring. Now the government has promised the Left Party to further change the regulation letter so that Försäkringskassan ensures that the sick person is entitled to compensation. And there are no targets for low sickness rates. Madam President, I would like People do not get healthier but suffer more from the treatment that the system puts them through. Not to be believed is the height of humiliation. That's how you destroy a human being. Imagine that it would take a pandemic for more politicians to begin to understand that illness or disability is not something you choose but something you suffer from! Today you are healthy, but tomorrow it may be you or I who get sick. The Left Party, together with all of you who are active in various appeals and trade unions to change health insurance, has baxed the government and other parties in front of us. I want to thank you very much. I want you to know that you're the one who made the whole difference. But now also those who have been insured through the years need redress and financial compensation and get their SIG back. There's still a lot to do. The Left Party proposes the abolition of Karen's Day. The sharp deadlines need to be removed, and the rehabilitation chain needs to be individualised and realistic. Medical certificates shall be valid. A person who is chronically ill or has a disability must be entitled to permanent compensation. Therefore, the changes in sickness benefits already examined need to be presented by the government at the latest in connection with the spring change budget. Today, reference is made to Arbetsförmedlingen but is told there that you are too sick to get help for work. But Försäkringskassan believes that you are healthy as a nut. That is not to be allowed to continue; the Left Party will see to it. Madam President, I would like It is we wage earners who themselves pay for health insurance with our abandoned pay space. This is our right. It's not a handout. We've earned it. The Left Party wants to increase the level of benefits broadly in both sickness benefit and sickness and activity benefit. We are the only party in Parliament that, year after year, removes the penalty tax for all the sick and unemployed in our budget. Madam President, I would like Sweden can be built strongly again if the political momentum exists. People's security is the responsibility of politics – our responsibility. We shall step by step, reform by reform, ensure that we once again have a working health insurance policy. The Left Party will remain on until all changes are made. There is no longer a contest about who is best at hunting the sick; this is evident in this House. Instead, it is now those who are defending an unjust health insurance policy that is a little under pressure. And they could have! I am in favour of reservation 2 in paragraph 1 and I refer to our specific opinion.
i-26bab3612af8008c-597	Madam President, I would like Today, I would like to emphasise that the Liberals are presenting their own budget and a reform agenda that provides Sweden with a strong knowledge school for everyone, which kicks off the work of paying off the integration debt that has been allowed to grow for too long and which gives Sweden the opportunity to become the world's first climate-neutral welfare country. In addition, we greatly strengthen the entire legal chain, strengthen the work line in benefit systems, lower taxes on labour and savings, and strengthen the Swedish innovation and business environment. Madam President, I would like It is positive that Parliament's decision on the framework for the State budget 2022 means a slightly less red-green policy for Sweden. In important areas course shifts are carried out in the liberal and bourgeois direction, and we welcome that. At the same time, there are elements in the draft budget that have won the approval of Parliament so far as the Liberals have not supported it. Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we Liberals want, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 10. Liberals' proposals in the area of expenditure that we are now debating in the SfU1 are part of our budgetary option, which is a whole. It cannot therefore be broken out. It is worth noting that we fully support the proposals for changes and improvements that are also contained in this budget decision and report. Madam President, I would like During their term of office, the Liberals in the framework of previous government cooperation have pushed the government forward in order, among other things, to restore the severely attacked LSS legislation and secure everyone's opportunity for a decent everyday life. An investigation into the government's head office that the Liberals pushed through in the January agreement is in place, and proposals are expected in March 2023 – unfortunately with a little too weak directives and unfortunately with a little too long investigation time. In addition, the investigation has strengthened the right to personal assistance. The proposal has been delivered and consulted. The government has already indicated its intention to proceed with this investigation's proposal. That is very pleasing, because this is one of the best investigations that have come to light in this area. And it is not surprising because we Liberals were involved in ensuring that the directives were excellent. It is gratifying that the government has learned lessons from previous collaborations. However, Madam President, we find it remarkable that the government's draft budget will not be sufficient to finance the reforms in the investigation which it actually supports precisely about strengthening the right to personal assistance. The government, Madam President, is interfering in the longest possible period of implementation, with two parliamentary elections between them, and the lowest funding to be sufficient for implementation. That's remarkable. Liberals do not accept this. Where the government is delaying its introduction and withholds sufficient funding, the Liberals in our draft budget are putting secure solid funding where the proposals can become a reality within the shortest possible time. Madam President, I would like In order for life to work for those in need of personal assistance, there must be a secure and functional assistance allowance for those working within the assistance. It is of great importance both for those who use personal assistance, for those who work within it and for the serious actors operating within the system that there are long-term compensations and prerequisites. In concrete terms, this means that what is known as a lump sum, i.e. the compensation paid by the State under the Social Security Code each year, must be calculated and determined in a way that allows for a reasonable wage increase. This, Madam President, is one of the few salaries in Sweden that the government sets alone, without any trade union negotiations or opportunities for change. Such an increase in wages makes it possible to retain skilled staff longer, which in turn makes it worthwhile to invest in, for example, further training of employees and good employment conditions. Employees who remain longer in service are better placed to build relationships with the individual they work for, which strengthens the quality of the assistance they receive. Madam President, I would like This is, of course, the basis of personal assistance – not the one who works but the one who is actually the hiring party. Despite these advantages, the government chooses to only list the flat-rate amount by 1.5 per cent. This means that Sweden's personal assistants can expect a maximum of 1.5 per cent salary increase during next year, regardless of what the rest of the labour market receives. This is a much smaller increase than the government did in the previous year's budget, which was negotiated with us liberals. We increased the flat rate by 3.5% instead. This addition will improve both the quality of working conditions and other possibilities for personal assistants. The flat-rate amount is an important part of stable assistance before living conditions and for the quality of life of a great many people. The objective of the liberals is that the standard allowance should follow other comparable care occupations. In our draft budget, we are raising it by 3.5% a year in the future. We are the party that invests most in disability policy in the LSS area. Madam President, I would like Liberals live and breathe disability policy. This is clear in this year's draft budget, and it will be clear for many years to come. For this reason, for example, we Liberals, as I have said, do not take part in the decision on the draft budget which is before Parliament, but refer to our particular opinion. With this, I would like to thank the Presidium of Presidents, members of the Committee, the Office of the Committee, the Chamber and the audience for the past year and wish a good weekend and a better year, a year without pandemic effects.
i-26bab3612af8008c-613	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson presented very good and interesting disability policy here. But if you look at the spending area on health insurance, it looks a little more boring in the Liberals' exercise. Liberals are therefore the party that spends the least on the health insurance of all parties in parliament. Bengt Eliasson said they were behind all the improvements, but that's not true if you look at the table here. The Liberals are proposing another Karen's Day. At day 15 you should have one of those. Liberals say that they want to reintroduce a longer time limit in health insurance – the precipice thus. Liberals reject the government's proposal to increase the ceiling in sickness benefit. The Liberals reject the Government's proposal for special rules on sickness benefits for pensioners. The Liberals reject the Government's proposal on the requirement of proof at day 365 of health insurance. Liberals want to abolish the qualification rules for refugees in health insurance. As far as I can tell, it's the most deterioration there. So the area you save most in your budget is health insurance. My honest question to Bengt Eliasson is: If you care about people who are sick and people with disabilities, do you not want them to be entitled to compensation and that the compensation should be good and fair? Will the Liberals and Bengt Eliasson vote against the proposals that will then be on Parliament's table that it will be easier to receive sickness and activity benefits, or will the Liberals change their mind and support the proposals that the Left Party and the Government will put forward?
i-26bab3612af8008c-617	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the questions! To see what we want to do, it is not enough just to look at the table over this area of expenditure. It is also necessary to look at the whole area of social security and the whole area of social security. We are putting forward a wide range of proposals to support and help people on sick leave, before sick leave and after sick leave. We put forward strong proposals on reformed working methods for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and on closer cooperation with the healthcare sector. We suggest that health insurance should be active and that it should be adapted to what you are on sick leave for, and more. We want to develop a new effort, individual support and guidance, which actually follows the sick person through the sick leave process, so that the person does not end up in a sick leave situation behind closed doors and closed curtains alone. That is a long line of efforts. These are some of the efforts we want to see to ensure that people who are on sick leave can actually be rehabilitated back to work, and when you have sickness and activity compensation of a more chronic nature you should be able to habilitate in your situation. All efforts must be seen as a whole. We are not leaving anyone behind, but rather looking at the whole of a person's situation. Just to insure people from the labour market is not reasonable. We've been there in our country, and we don't want to go back there.
i-26bab3612af8008c-621	Madam President, I would like Honesty lasts the longest, doesn't it? I thought I heard the honourable Member say that all the proposals put forward by the government were good and that the Liberals were behind them. But it is still 9.6 billion that you do not support, and then I think you should tell us about it. But now we have had a little more clarity about what the Liberals want. Today, there are record few who have been entitled to health insurance. So very few people receive sickness and activity benefits, and you have to have that if you have a disability. You have to get right about it. Four times as many have been secured at the time limits, and then you need to make rules changes, for that should not be the case. Then it doesn't matter that you talk nice about other things, but this is what needs to be done. Then I ask if Bengt Eliasson will support the proposals that will be made about changes in sickness benefit and rehabilitation and that you should receive sickness benefit more easily.
i-26bab3612af8008c-624	Madam President, I would like Reconciliation periods during sick leave are extremely important. The fact that you take an active part in your own sick leave and that employers and other parties, not least health care, are very active in the sick leave process is also extremely important. Then you need fixed reconciliation points. I am absolutely convinced of this. In the debate, this has been referred to as pre-stocking or insurance periods. Yes, it is possible that the regulatory framework that has been in force over the past eight years has actually been that way, and we can see the effects of that. That's not what we want. This is what I'm trying to say. We are putting forward a wide range of active proposals to become a more humane sick leave but a sick leave that leads back normal daily life.
i-26bab3612af8008c-627	Madam President, I would like The Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, has begun the repair of the rifts of health insurance. We have made the regulations more human. We have provided better conditions for part-time sick leave. We have provided more reasonable conditions for those of us who are sick and approaching retirement. These are just a few examples. Madam President, I would like All individuals who depend on a poorly functioning insurance policy want nothing more than an improvement in the situation. So do I and my party. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that there is an important point in methodically taking one thing at a time, to hurry slowly, in order to get an anchored process that should last. I am therefore very grateful, although we would like to see changes here and now, that we have done a solid job through investigation, referrals and preparation as well as implementation of proposals from the Health Insurance investigation. In fact, the parliamentary parties support the proposals put forward by the previous government in its draft budget in this area. But we in the Green Party want so much more. We have developed a programme of social justice. There we have several proposals on tools that we want to use to bring people together their daily lives and to create security in a society with growing divides. One of the proposals, Madam President, is about a more seamless system of protection. In the long term, we want to merge unemployment funds, health insurance and supply support into a common security insurance policy that will also be managed by the same authority. In this way, we avoid people being thrown back and forth between different authorities. Another proposal is that we want to abolish the Karen Day for good. That the government continues with the exception during the pandemic we think is very good, but the Green Party believes that the Karen's Day should be removed completely in the future. One important reason for this is that people have different opportunities to work from home when they are crescent. For people like me, who basically work in the healthcare profession, it is very difficult. With Karen's Day you also risk people with a worse economy going to work anyway. When corona is no longer a major problem, this can contribute to increased infection at work and to the deterioration of the health of those who push away their need to be at home and who do not allow themselves to be ill and rest. A third proposal is that no one should be denied sickness benefit for time that one has already been on sick leave. We believe that this is completely absurd today. A person who is ill can go to a doctor who agrees with the need for sick leave and who sends a file to Försäkringskassan. Then there is the risk that Försäkringskassan will not approve the sick leave, either because it disagrees with the assessment or because the doctor's documentation and certificate are not clear enough. This can be a disaster for the individual. It's tough not to be believed on the basis of your own judgment and that of your doctor. But it's also tough to be completely without the money to make a living. Sometimes it can be a fairly long period that has passed. That people should bear this concern is not reasonable. Many have described the concerns of Försäkringskassan. The anxiety of not being believed creates a great deal of stress. This is particularly difficult for those who are on sick leave because of stress-related illness and who are at risk of worsening. Madam President, I would like I'm a substitute here in Parliament. I've got three months left on my temp. When this period is over, I will go back to my job as a nurse. There I meet children and young people with disabilities, but I also meet adults. In recent times, I've been really thinking about what I'm going to be able to say to these individuals. How will I explain that a situation that is economically rather tough risks continuing to get tough? With the budget of M's, KD's and SD's, we again have a situation where we make a difference between people. Sickness and activity benefits are benefits granted for not being able to work in the regular labour market. A higher tax for those with sickness and activity benefits with the motive that it should pay to work is rather a punishment for being unable to work. There are many people out there who only get about $1,000 to live on, and that's before the tax is paid. It's not that easy to live on that amount. Nor is it easy to feel fully involved in the society in which we live. One might wonder what norms and values are the basis for introducing a job tax credit that becomes a new unfair tax gap for those who have sickness and activity benefits. Madam President, I would like Since, in the first stage of our budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 10. Our budgetary option should be seen as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation.
i-26bab3612af8008c-641	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Community spending on sick leave is very high. In the traces of covid-19, sick leave has increased significantly. Covid-19 has created an exceptional situation requiring exceptional measures. We Moderates have been the driving force behind important measures, such as the abolition of the carer's allowance and an increase in preventive sickness benefit for risk groups. It has been necessary to stop the spread of the disease and to protect particularly vulnerable groups. In order for society to be strong when a new crisis strikes, it has been important that the temporary measures have been rolled back. From the individual's perspective, sick leave leads to poorer private finances, and a long absence from working life often leads to fewer social contacts in everyday life. The exclusion is both economic and social. The effects can be great in the next generation. Children of parents who are on long-term sick leave tend to be on sick leave themselves to a greater extent than others. For us Moderates, it is obvious that society's efforts should focus on preventing sick leave and helping people back to work. Those who are ill or injured and who cannot work should of course be entitled to compensation, care and rehabilitation. However, a person who has or regains his or her capacity for work must always be supported and helped to get back to work. Long-term illness is, of course, sometimes inevitable for the individual, and the health insurance system should provide assurance that the person who is ill will receive support. But if the long illness increases overall, it creates many problems and risks. Madam President, I would like Psychiatric diagnoses have been the most common reason for sick leave since 2014. In order to counteract a trend towards more and more and more cases of mental illness in psychiatric diagnoses, support for mental illness needs to be improved, and the knowledge of sick leave for this reason needs to be increased. Health and work capacity issues are complex and multifaceted. In addition, the situation is further complicated in the case of psychiatric diagnoses. After all, it is easier to assess approximately how long it takes for a broken leg to heal and how the work capacity is affected by it. Assessments are considerably more difficult for mental illness. This is particularly evident when you weigh in the psychosocial work environment's interaction with mental illness. Many describe a situation where the pressure from the poor psychosocial work environment becomes too great and creates a severe stress reaction. Since mental illness is largely individual, there are a number of parameters and factors that all contribute to rehabilitation. The Moderates are in favour of several of the proposals put forward by the state inquiry A safe health insurance with people at its centre, including the need for clearer requirements for previous interventions in the field of mental illness. However, it is important that the starting point should be as short a sick leave as possible and a return to work as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like Many young people with disabilities who receive activity compensation do not participate in measures aimed at increasing the chances of getting a job or starting studies. They do not get the help they need to activate, but instead become inactive and end up further and further away from the labour market. These young people risk having a low income throughout their lives and, ultimately, a very low pension. People who have sickness or activity benefits must be given better opportunities to break their exclusion. Financial protection systems must always encourage more people to go to work or training and provide a context and a livelihood. Nevertheless, in view of the speeches made earlier in this debate, Madam President, I think it is important to say that the entire tax reduction that the government wants to introduce in relation to those who have sickness and activity benefits is also included in the draft budget that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have presented as a budgetary option. So there is no conflict here, although we have heard that the Social Democrats and the Green Party in their speeches desperately want to find one. Of course, the fact that we also lower taxes for those who work and have worked does not impair the conditions for others, but rather strengthens the work line. It should pay to work at the same time as safe conditions should apply to those who cannot work. Those who work receive SEK 150 more per month in tax reduction with our budget, while those who have sickness and activity benefits receive SEK 850 more per month in tax reduction. We think it is reasonable to become more profitable to work, and here we differ from the government.
i-26bab3612af8008c-655	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson, for a fine speech! I was quick on the line button, and I was asked, "Why are you so fast?" You have to listen first. I would have done that. I would like to say that I appreciate you highlighting the importance of health insurance and the importance of pursuing a policy for those who need the support of our society most – the disabled and those who get a disease and need support. I also appreciate you mentioning Claes Jansson's investigation and the improvements that are on the table. But I wasn't that quick on the button anyway, it turned out, because you didn't mention the other proposals that we're going to vote on today. I'll read them out quickly. This is about increased flexibility in the examination at day 365, a change in the work capacity test at the age of 62 for sickness benefit, i.e. an older valve that allows more elderly people to receive sickness benefit more easily, and more flexible organisation of working time in the case of part-time sick leave, allowing more people to be rehabilitated more easily in the time that they, together with the employer, consider best to get back to work quickly. It is also about the relief of sickness benefit for needy workers. Today, as I mentioned in my speech, it is extremely common among young people or in welfare professions to have short contracts, SMS contracts or over-the-day pay, which, despite paying taxes on their salary, do not qualify for sickness benefit. This is therefore a very important improvement for many in LO professions. Not least, we raise the income ceiling in health insurance. Again, these are issues that I cannot find support for either in the joint budget reservation presented or in the Moderate Budget Movement. On the contrary, reductions are proposed there and all proposals are rejected. The question is: What is your favorite suggestion of those I have just read out?
i-26bab3612af8008c-662	I would like to remind you that everyone is speaking through the President, which means that you are not going to be the right word.
i-26bab3612af8008c-663	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Vepsä, for the opportunity to discuss this. It is clear that it is the government that has been in office for almost eight years now that is responsible for what we have seen happen to health insurance. It is also clear that the government has gradually dismantled what has been the idea of health insurance, namely to ensure that those who have a working capacity have the opportunity to return to work. Those who do not have a work capacity should be entitled to sickness benefit, but gradually this has been dismantled in Sweden of the Social Democrats today. I think there is a lot in what the government has been working on just the last year that shows how serious the situation is. I think it is extremely important with the rehabilitation chain that we have had in Sweden now for several years. I believe that it has given a signal to the Government of Sweden not only to administer sick leave in the form of paying compensation, but the rehabilitation chain is also a chain which means that there are holding times in health insurance, which means that we in society ensure that there are efforts for those who have ended up in sick leave so that they are rehabilitated and regain their working capacity. Otherwise, the honourable Member has earlier in the speech and has also now tried to paint a conflict area that does not exist in today's vote in this area of expenditure.
i-4dbh4Q7GEgMWjmCfiRhAuA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson from the Moderates, for an interesting answer! I note that I did not have a favorite reform read out, but rather a defence number for the rehabilitation chain. We have not abolished it, but we have adjusted it and removed and filed the worst edges so that more people get rehabilitation and the opportunity to come back. We see that part-time workers, as I mentioned, do not even have the opportunity to qualify for health insurance. We make an exception for older people who are hit very hard and so on. Good politics! But it is worrying that Mr Karlsson could not stand up for the policy that is to be voted on today and which the Moderates claim to stand for as a possible future government policy. I have one last question. It concerns the insurance pension – the possibility for older people to receive sickness and activity benefits at the end of their working life without compromising their own pension. What is the attitude of the Moderates towards the social security pension?
i-26bab3612af8008c-670	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is a good way to go back to the situation before 2006, when we hid people in early retirement, as the proposal will mean. We will make use of every person's opportunity and ability to work, even at the end of working life. We want people to work as long as possible if there is a work capacity. Then I think it is extremely important to be able to make a change later in life. Therefore, I do not believe that this is a policy that creates and exploits people's ability to contribute later in their working lives. And I am very sceptical about this proposal. I think we are going to see out-of-insurance and early retirement that we do not want.
i-26bab3612af8008c-672	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we, as politicians and Members of this Parliament, do not blame ourselves. It is the case that it is the Alliance Government that has changed health insurance so that 90 000 - 100 000 people were insured. It is so that S and MP set goals that created great insurances after day 180 and day 365. My question to the Moderates is: What is the purpose of blaming each other? Is it not better to act now that it is in this way and vote for it not to be so, instead of saying: It is you who have made it happen, and then we will not do anything about it? If you want to do something about this, there is a proposal on the table now, if you think that is wrong. I also wonder how the Moderates think about not being able to avoid conversion at the age of 61 or 62 when the retirement age of very many groups in heavy occupations is precisely that age. The only thing that happens is that you get a very low pension. This is not at all about an early retirement pension that existed before, and it is not about being asked to become an engineer as a 61-year-old or 62-year-old if you can't work on the building anymore. You're only being tried against the industry you work in. There is already a system of other time limits already in place. Why should it not be possible to create a valve for those who are 62 years old, both for the sake of society and for the sake of the individual?
i-26bab3612af8008c-676	Madam President, I would like It is a bit funny to have a question about why you blame and accuse others when Mr Gabrielsson's entire speech was about blaming everyone else. Sometimes, of course, it can be a little difficult to look after yourself and see how you can embrace a debate here in Parliament. As far as guarantee pensions are concerned, it is not the case that you force someone who has worked in the trade to become an engineer. It is not a question of such a conversion. However, it is still being tested against the whole labour market, and it is, of course, possible to see what jobs are possible to take. Nor is it in the same industry, but it is the same employer. It makes it even harder. I don't think we should have a system where you try to forget and hide people who might be able to take a job. Then we will end up in the same situation, whether it is called early retirement or guarantee pension, that we forget these people and do not allow them to participate in the context that a job can be. I think it's very important that we all have a social context to be in. Everyone feels good about that, even if you're 62 years old.
i-26bab3612af8008c-679	Madam President, I would like It is very good if the moderate Member can present his wishes to me. It is a question of saying what we in the Left Party think is wrong in the various systems. And it is about what you and what the Social Democrats have done and voted for. That's what it looks like. The Left Party has made very good proposals all along. It is therefore difficult to get to grips with it. I'll have to do that in some other area. This is about people who are out of body. And the industries to which these people are subjected are often industries where manual work is needed. In the case of sickness benefit, it is a matter of being examined against your own employer because it is a short-term conversion insurance. But the sickness benefit, which is more long-term, is tested against the whole industry. Therefore, what the Moderates say is not correct. The question is: why do you reject all improvements if you think it is important to strengthen health insurance?
i-26bab3612af8008c-684	Madam President, I would like We also say what we think is wrong with others. I felt that I did so in my speech, where I pointed out the problems that exist in health insurance under the current government, a government that has been sitting for almost eight years and has gradually dismantled the work line and now made sure that we should hide and forget even more people who might have a working capacity and be able to come back. I think it is extremely important that we have the opportunity to use every individual who can take a job. That is why it is such a great pity that Mr Gabrielsson is always talking about strengthening the systems for paying compensation to those who are ill rather than talking about how to get them rehabilitated so that they can get back to work.
i-AqLAijbCXaUUveiej21wqh	Madam President, I would like We are today debating Category 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. Mr Jag would like to begin by calling for the committee's draft decision to be approved under paragraph 1 and also for the committee's draft budget under paragraph 2. Madam President, I would like In the course of life, it can happen to anyone, young or old, highly paid as a low-paid person, a man as a woman, a disease or an accident that reduces the ability to work. For me and the Swedish Democrats, it is obvious that there should be a well-functioning health insurance system in these situations. Equally obvious, it must be that there is access to good care and rehabilitation during this period as well as flexible solutions adapted to the individual's situation in order to step by step to get support to return to work as far as possible. Unfortunately, this has not been obvious in practice in Sweden. And there have been major shortcomings in health insurance in terms of governance. Insurance of persons after 180 days and 365 days of sick leave skyrocketed after the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government took office. A number target was set for how many days people can be on sick leave. And health insurance became a source of income. The government's governance and signals to Försäkringskassan have led to square and harsh assessments despite the fact that the regulations have not changed. This has led to insurance of severely ill people with cancer, epilepsy, severe mental illness, ME and much more. The variations between regions have also been huge. But after the government received a lot of criticism from several quarters, including from the Swedish Democrats, for its goal management around this, the goal formulation in the regulation letter was changed with a clarification that the goal of bringing down the number of people who are sick is to be achieved through preventive work, strengthened rehabilitation and better cooperation. That is where the focus must be. It is not possible to reduce the number of people on sick leave by securing them. This must be done by actually helping people and preventing them from falling ill. Madam President, I would like Today, mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave. This is a deeply worrying development. A major problem is fatigue syndrome and burnout, especially in the public sector. It affects women in particular. At the same time, regulations and expertise have not adapted to this type of problem. We have been able to read in the media how several lawyers have strongly criticized the rejection of people with mental illness because objective physical evidence has not been found. The government has thus also created working conditions that lead to people being worn out to the point where it leads to mental illness. Once they have applied for sickness benefit, they have been refused for not being able to prove mental illness. Afterwards, the same people have been informed by Arbetsförmedlingen that they are too sick to be able to get a job – and as an additional letter at the post office they lose their sickness benefit-based income. This is just not the way it's supposed to be. We in the Swedish Democrats therefore want to continue to work towards safe and legally secure health insurance, as opposed to insecure insurance. Both health insurance and occupational injury insurance must be better adapted to mental illness. Preventive measures are also very important before sick leave becomes a fact. One important measure, although in another area of expenditure but affecting sick leave, is that through the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats we will finally abolish the shared tours in the care of the elderly. We also allocate additional resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to look at occupational diseases and problems with mental illness. It is of great importance that people are actually given the opportunity for rehabilitation, care, support and help to become healthy, rather than having a rejection thrown into their face before they have the opportunity to become healthy. Madam President, I would like During our term of office, we have also pushed for a more humane financial situation for long-term ills and people with disabilities. We budgeted to increase the guarantee level of sickness benefit before the government did. We budgeted to strengthen the housing supplement before the government did, and when we did, the Social Democrats voted against it. We proposed concrete changes to the rehabilitation chain's day 180 and day 365 before the government did. We also proposed a change in the assessment of the working capacity of persons close to retirement before the government did so. Symptomatic of this social democratic government has been to be several steps behind. However, it is much better with one step than no step at all, so that many of these proposals are now included in the budget proposal is of course very positive. And yes, Ida Gabrielsson from the Left Party – several of the proposals we have pushed for during the term of office are included because they are now also included in the budget bill, and they will go through with the draft budget from us, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Important measures contained in this draft budget are that the economy of persons receiving sickness and activity benefits will be strengthened by both reducing the tax on sickness and activity benefits by approximately SEK 10 000 per year, i.e. approximately SEK 800 per month, while at the same time strengthening the guarantee level by approximately SEK 1 000 per month and raising the ceiling in the housing supplement. All in all, this means a strengthened economy of an average of nearly SEK 20 000 a year for this group. Now that we have had some skewed speeches and a skewed debate on this, it is very important that it is clear that we are really investing in this group in this budget. These improvements will go through. The fact that the Social Democrats want to make it appear that the economy of these people would deteriorate is very regrettable and only creates misunderstandings and concerns among these groups. It is also positive that there will be a change in the assessment of date 365 in the rehabilitation chain. This means briefly that people who are in rehabilitation and who appear to have an opportunity to return to the employer within 550 days should be given a chance to do so without having to change or be insured. However, it is important that these people are actually given the help and support that is needed in that process and not left without action. Madam President, I would like We have also been critical of raising the retirement age, on the grounds that everyone has different conditions. Some want and can, and they will of course have good opportunities to work as long as they want and can. However, others have laborious jobs that affect their health and where it is not possible to work higher up age. We therefore believe that it is only right that greater opportunities be introduced for this group to be granted sickness benefit by being examined solely against its employer, that is to say, what Minister Ardalan Shekarabi refers to as a security pension. Madam President, I would like There are more positive proposals, including flexible solutions for part-time sick leave so that you can be on sick leave for a whole day and work a whole day instead of taking it out during the week. There would have to be further steps, namely the removal of the fixed time limits of 25, 50 and 75 %. We have been putting forward this proposal for years, as have other parties, but the Social Democrats have consistently voted against it. That would make this even more flexible and good. Overall, it is positive that further steps are being taken for a more humane and sustainable health insurance, but much more needs to be done – especially in the areas of prevention and rehabilitation and mental illness. We will monitor developments closely. With this, I would like to thank the committee, both the members and the committee secretariat, for their good cooperation. I would also like to thank the President's Bureau, the Chamber Office and everyone else for a good parliamentary year. I wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-26bab3612af8008c-706	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a nice speech, Julia Kronlid! As we heard, we day is fairly agreed on a lot. Unlike previous speakers, the honourable Member agrees with the proposals on the table. She reads out the suggestions and stands for them. I think it is a positive thing, and the Swedish Democrats and Julia Kronlid should be commended for that. However, I am a little perplexed, because when previous speakers have answered questions that I have asked about whether the proposals contained in the budget are something that the parties stand for, there have been very different answers. One could say that some are the step ahead and the second step after the development, in short. I am going to ask the Swedish Democrats and Julia Kronlid: in what way should we be able to trust the Swedish Democrats? In what way should we be able to rely on the improvements now being made to remain in future processes?
i-26bab3612af8008c-708	Madam President, I would like Regarding how to trust us, Mr Mattias said earlier that, among other things, I have said that we will vote in favour of the proposals if they are tabled. They are now being tabled, and we will be voting in favour of them. That way, you've still been able to trust my word, Mattias Vepsä. Then there are three different parties. I think Mattias Vepsä also know that in different contexts when they have tried to interact with other parties have been different parties with different wills – and that their collaboration has not always gone so well. In our collaboration, however, I think it has worked well. We are three different parties, and we can have slightly different perspectives and wills, but we have still been able to agree on the essentials. Now these proposals will go through. It's about giving and taking and being able to talk, and I think it has worked fine and well. As far as the future is concerned, I cannot now stand here and say what will happen further, but I know that there are some areas that all three of us – the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats – think are very important. It is, among other things, the mental illness, which is very worrying. More needs to be done there. When it comes to preventive work, the Government has received strong criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office. I would like to ask Mattias Vepsä what the government will do to strengthen prevention. I also wonder what to do about health and safety conditions, which today are terribly bad in the public sector. It really is on women, and it should be an equal opportunities priority from the Social Democrats. You really haven't done well. Another thing is care and rehabilitation. There, too, much more needs to be done, rather than people being left without action. That is something that is very important to us. Will the Social Democrats do something about it?
i-26bab3612af8008c-714	Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, there is no doubt that trade union-political work is extremely important in order to overcome the health and safety problems that we see. That is why we in this House have tried to vote in favour of allowing health and safety inspectors and regional safety representatives access to the workplaces, which the Swedish Democrats have voted against. This is one way to ensure that work environment work works at workplaces all over the country. Trade union policy cooperation is well the answer to that question. We will strengthen it and deepen it. Another concern I feel about the future, if we back up about eight minutes, is the idea that the security pension – a venture for the elderly in the country, often in laborious occupations, or LO professions – should not have a valve because a security pension means that people are covered and hidden away in our insurance systems. How do the Swedish Democrats view that statement? Will we have a security pension in place?
i-26bab3612af8008c-717	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member, Mattias Vepsä, for the question. After all, the proposal for a pension is included in the budget. We have the same budget. It is, of course, the same proposal; it is not a party that has said that it should vote against it. On the other hand, it may be possible to have some different approaches and views on how it will work in the future and on that people who can work should not be pensio-downed prematurely because you do not have the energy to try and help these people. It is there, and we will vote it through today. I cannot help mentioning this with trade union work and safety representatives. What we in the Swedish Democrats are critical of is that only Social Democrats can be safety representatives. We think that everyone should have the opportunity to be so; there we think there can be a change. But work environment work is very important. We also invest extra money in the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We have been proposing this for many years, but the Social Democrats have voted against it.
i-26bab3612af8008c-723	Madam President, I would like What the Left Party thinks is important, apart from not blaming itself, is that you stand for what you do. We in the Left Party have had these proposals – and more so – in our budget ever since these changes took place in various forms. If the Social Democrats had stood and answered the Left Party in the way the bourgeois parties have done here, the Left Party would have been terribly clear to them, saying that the government has done wrong, that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have set these goals and that the Alliance has done this. But you in the Swedish Democrats are terribly weak in the face of the politics of the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties. If you look at their budget, you can see that they reject any proposals for improvements to health insurance that are being put forward. How do you think in the Swedish Democrats if you mean seriously that you want to prioritise health insurance? If you're going to be right-wing nationalists together, you don't have the Left Party, which has fixed that the government will present proposals and investigations that they themselves have made, in their back pocket next time. Should the Moderates set up these investigations? They said here that there is no problem; the one who is 62 should change. It's not good to have a security pension. Is it the Moderates, who reject every improvement there, who are going to fix the replacements? The Swedish democrats themselves stand and say that they do not want a funkis tax, i.e. an extra tax for the sick. The left is the only party that wants to remove the additional tax on sickness benefit paid. In their own budget, the Swedish democrats make a large-scale job tax deduction that increases the differences hugely for both sickness pensioners and people with sickness benefit. How does it rhyme with your politics, Julia Kronlid?
i-26bab3612af8008c-728	Madam President, I would like I thank Ida Gabrielsson for the questions and for giving me the opportunity to talk about what I am passionate about. I have to say that I admire the commitment that Ida Gabrielsson has, and I believe that Mrs Ida Gabrielsson knows that I too have a great deal of commitment to these issues. Should we in the Swedish Democrats be weak in this? No, thank you. We've been involved in pushing the government. I've been involved in writing motions and motions and pushing the government. The Left Party has also done so, but the Swedish Democrats have been very active in this process. Now these proposals are on the table, and not one of them will be voted down today. No deterioration of health insurance goes through in the proposal of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Yet Ida Gabrielsson calls the Swedish Democrats veka. That's not correct.
i-26bab3612af8008c-731	There are extensive improvements that go through for those with sickness and activity benefits. It is now going through a substantial tax reduction for people with sickness and activity benefits. The level of guarantee is also increased. We have been proposing this for years, and now it is finally going through. It is not vexed but strong to have been involved and influenced this development. When it comes to the job tax deduction of SEK 150 that is made, is it not a good thing that both those who work and those who have sickness and activity benefits get a tax reduction? Both of these groups benefit from the budget. Pensioners also receive a tax reduction. We've been in on it. These proposals will go through, and that is very positive. It's definitely not vected.
i-26bab3612af8008c-734	Madam President, I would like From the left-wing side's point of view, it is extremely weak not to succeed in reducing the tax or removing the penalty tax paid by people with sickness benefit. According to the Swedish Democrats' own budget, you should receive 800 – 1 600 in job tax deductions while at the same time there will not be a crown in tax reductions for those who have sickness benefit. Are those who are sickness pensioners or have sickness benefit going to pay more than you and me in tax? Should they pay a larger share of their income in tax? That is the question. The Left Party does not think so. The Swedish Democrats think so. I think that's wrong. Do the Swedish Democrats believe that it is the Swedish Democrats that the Social Democrats have negotiated with? It is the Left Party that has made the demands, and all the demands that are included have been on our list. I'm the one who picked them up in the conversation. Unfortunately, I do not think it is you in the Swedish Democrats that they have taken the impression. Your friends are sitting over there, and you haven't got a single suggestion.
i-26bab3612af8008c-737	Madam President, I would like Now it was not the Left Party that managed to collect a majority for a budget, but it was the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats who managed to collect a majority for their budget. There are these improvements. There we lower taxes for people with sickness and activity benefits. We are not imposing any additional tax, but we are reducing the tax on those who have sickness and activity benefits. This is one of the biggest investments we have in the budget, and I think it is positive. The guarantee level is also rising, which is something that we from the Swedish Democrats have been proposing for several years. The Social Democrats have voted 'no', but now it will go through. It is good that the Left Party has pushed for these issues, but so have we in the Swedish Democrats. We have contributed to the vote on these proposals today. We will continue to monitor developments with health insurance so that we also invest in preventive work, rehabilitation, care and support, so that people can actually get healthy.
i-26bab3612af8008c-741	Madam President, I would like Everyone should live with the certainty that the common bear when you can't do it yourself. The proposals from us in the Christian Democrats in the field of financial security in the area of sickness and disability are detailed in our committee motion. I now support the committee's proposal for a decision. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that social security should contribute to financial security regardless of when and where in your life you are. You should always be able to trust that the common bear when that ability is not with yourself. At the same time, we in the Christian Democrats believe that there is a great deal more that can be done so that more people do not have to get sick. I was going to mention a few suggestions that I think are relevant to the health of this country. We know, for example, that the freedom of families to decide for themselves on their unique family puzzles is important for parents' health. The double days, introduced by the Christian Democrats under the alliance government, led to the fathers who otherwise rarely charge parental allowance doing so. However, the research also shows that double days have had major positive effects on the mental and physical health of new mothers. We believe that greater economic freedom provides greater security, especially among families with children and low income earners. With the budget drawn up by KD, M and SD, we have taken the first steps towards a national health service. We then want to ensure that health care is nationalised. This makes it possible for people to receive care on time and for them to receive equivalent care throughout the country, because the care queues that escalated under the current government create enormous pressures, not only on the individual, but also on the loved ones. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats welcome the increase in the level of guarantees for those with sickness and activity benefits. We have already pointed out here in Parliament that this is a vulnerable group that is deemed to lack the ability to work and has fallen behind financially and become further vulnerable. That is why we tabled a proposal in our budget option to increase the guarantee level last year. It didn't win. But now we are getting an increase, a substantial increase, which is also linked to tax cuts and the improvement of the housing supplement. It feels great and is very important. Sickness benefit should serve as a security for those who, for the foreseeable future, are unable to work. Then we Christian Democrats note that the sickness benefit does not always exist for those who really need it. This is particularly true of people who are approaching retirement. We Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of what has been named the security pension. But we are not in favour of the word itself. We would prefer it to be called a security allowance, for example because we believe that it is important to separate the pension system from the social security system. Therefore, we have renamed it as a security allowance. This is a compensation that should capture those people who have had a long and laborious working life and therefore are unable to work anymore and where the transition and rehabilitation are deemed to be disproportionate in relation to the time left to retirement. Then it is better that it now becomes a targeted valve for those people, so that they absolutely do not have to claim their general pension with a lower pension as a result once the retirement age has been reached. Madam President, I would like In 2019, about twice as many women aged between 20 and 59 were on sick leave compared to men. The difference in age range was greatest between 40 and 49 years. There are a number of different studies and research that have tried to explain what this big difference depends on. But it's hard to know what's actually scientifically proven. In addition, many times the studies contradict each other. We have therefore proposed that the State's preparation for medical evaluation, SBU, together with some other appropriate authority, be commissioned to do a systematic literature review and compilation, so that we at least know what is reasonable to assume. To conclude, Madam President, I cannot avoid even this time raising this issue with the need for greater flexibility. I have now done so in every discussion we have had during this parliamentary term. As early as 2015, an investigation was presented, More security and better insurance, which concluded that we need to increase flexibility in, for example, sickness benefit. 25, 50, 75 and 100 % are the steps currently in force for compensation. The report says: This could facilitate a gradual return to work. ..................................................... Is it not now time for us to get to grips with this issue, so that we have a little more flexibility in the system? If you would like to and feel that you can work 10 percent more with the rehabilitation process, I really do not understand why we could not offer that opportunity. Today this opportunity is being denied, and I and the Christian Democrats think that this is unreasonable.
i-26bab3612af8008c-756	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats see the budget as a whole. As there are changes in the framework decision adopted by this House in relation to the government's budgetary decision in Category 8, which we are now debating, we are not taking part in the decision today, but are referring to our specific opinion. This does not mean, however, that I will put an end to this, but I will still mention some things in the area of expenditure relating to migration. In fact, the decision concerns the financial framework in the area of migration. The difference between the M-SD-KD proposal adopted by the House and that put forward by the government is largely in this area of expenditure an increased focus on detention. Otherwise, the draft budgets are based on the change in migration policy. This means that with the greater control and manageable situation that the policy has led to, the efficiency requirements of the Migration Agency increase by the fact that the expansion that the Migration Agency made after 2015 now means a smaller operation due to a lower reception than in the years that we have behind us. One of the reasons for this change is the new Aliens Act that Parliament debated and adopted before the summer. It is legislation that is more similar to the legislation that exists in other EU countries and which makes Sweden, unlike 2015, now accept a proportion of asylum seekers to Europe that more corresponds to our share of Europe's population. It is a law in which, among other things, we have gone from permanent residence permits as a general rule to time-limited ones, that is to say, the same as most of the rest of Europe. On the other hand, you should be able to obtain a permanent residence permit if after three years you meet, among other things, the supply requirement. It is a policy that puts integration at the centre but which requires measures to provide help and support for people to be self-sufficient. Therefore, the changes that M, KD and SD choose to make in labour market policy are very poor. What they do is reduce integration and increase segregation. We Social Democrats want the reverse. We want to do everything we can and look at all the proposals to overcome the segregation that divides our society and the people in it. As I mentioned earlier, the issue of resources for detention is the point in this area of expenditure that separates the M-SD-KD proposal from that of the government. As I said earlier, the budget must be seen as a whole. This is part of what the three parties add. But what they are taking away, which we Social Democrats want to invest in, is, for example, labour market intervention for newcomers and those who are far from the labour market, investment aid to build rental apartments that ordinary people can afford to live in and a family week to get more time for the family and to get the life puzzle to go together for bus drivers, nurses, construction workers and many more with tied hours and young children. Madam President, I would like As far as detention is concerned, the Social Democratic-led government has increased capacity by over 100 per cent since 2016. Due to pandemic restrictions, capacity has been temporarily reduced but is planned to return to full capacity in the first quarter of 2022. Of course, we are following this closely. The need to store is also related to the effectiveness of return, and here we do not differ from the rest of Europe in any negative respect. However, Europe as a whole, including Sweden, should become more effective, including with better return agreements with countries of origin. Apart from this, I would also like to point out the need to come down in waiting time. Long processing times make return work difficult, but this also makes it difficult for Swedish citizens, for example, who want to move home and where part of the family is not Swedish citizens. Therefore, the Migration Agency's focus must be on streamlining operations and getting down in waiting time for all the law. Madam President, I would like Finally, a few words about what we Social Democrats think is at the top of the migration policy agenda for the future, namely labour immigration. Labour migration has been facing major challenges for a long number of years. Since the Moderates and the then alliance government introduced one of the most liberal laws in this area, we have seen how exploitation is increased by giving people false reflections and the conditions on the Swedish labour market are dumped. It is not reasonable that, despite a much better entry into the labour market, we have the unemployed and that it is the largest among those who have received asylum while taking in labour for the kind of job that they could get. We have received a number of proposals from the investigation that we set up a while ago, and now it is time to move on with them. It is gratifying that Magdalena Andersson, as the newly appointed Prime Minister, stated as one of the first political measures that we now want to demand binding employment contracts to bring in migrant workers. It is one of several proposals that will soon be presented by the government. I am pleased that the proposals are coming, and I hope that there is a great deal of support for them in this House. We need order and order in migration policy, and that very much includes the too liberal labour immigration that previous governments have introduced. Madam President, I would like Like many other speakers today, I would like to wish the President, the Chamber Office, the Committee Office, Members and the audience a really good, relaxing and hopefully Corona-free Christmas.
i-26bab3612af8008c-771	Madam President, I would like In 2015, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promised that asylum immigration would become an economically profitable business a little later. However, he did not provide any sources for this claim, and if we are to be honest, there are no such sources. However, sources of the opposite claim are quite abundant. Figures from SCB from last year show that only one third of those who came in 2015 have some type of work, and this includes people who earn as little as $8,000 a month. A survey from the Entrepreneurship Forum shows that about a third of those born in Africa and the Middle East support themselves, and here people who earn as little as $15,000 a month are counted as self-sufficient. This is barely enough for the rent in one of our big cities, so the real number of self-sufficient people is probably significantly lower than one third. A majority of the unemployed in Sweden today are born abroad, and over-representation is even greater if you count the long-term unemployed. Of course, so few people manage their own livelihoods not only because of their own faults. A large part of the problem is the active wage dumping policy of the Social Democrats, which makes it easy to bring in low-paid workers from poor countries to compete with those who are far from the labour market. Let me therefore ask Rikard Larsson: what did the Prime Minister mean by the fact that this will be an economically viable business in the longer term? We can pretend that the Social Democrats had got their budget through here and now and thus been able to make this forecast. How many years are we talking about before this economic gain is going to cashas in? I want a straight answer to this question.
i-26bab3612af8008c-779	Madam President, I would like Asylin migration is a profitable business for, among others, those of us who have the bad luck of suffering from covid and being cared for in hospitals because the health care system is doing a lot thanks to staff coming from many other countries. A bit of the core of the Swedish Democrats is to constantly try to prove that immigration is unprofitable and that Sweden brings immigrants here. But the Swedish Democrats have completely misunderstood how refugee policy works and why people get a residence permit in Sweden. Sweden has never had a migration policy that allowed a number of thousands of people from third countries to be here and live on subsidies. We are dealing with asylum applications from those who flee their home countries because they cannot remain. If they have reasons under international conventions, they have the right to stay. That is how asylum and refugee policy works. I am the first to agree that the proposals contained in the budget voted by Ludvig Aspling and his comrades, which remove the additional services, do not increase the opportunities for those who have come to Sweden to get into work. For example, Malmö describes how many extra services have to be scrapped because of these proposals, and this does not, of course, increase the chances.
i-26bab3612af8008c-783	Madam President, I would like Rikard Larsson's answer is therefore that it does not help to remove the additional services. No, it's possible. But the extra services in themselves did not help either, so that is a particularly weak argument. Rikard Larsson also says that we would have misunderstood what the asylum system is for because we are asking for a forecast when this will be an economic gain. We have never said that there will be an economic gain, but it is the Social Democrats. It was the Socialist Prime Minister who made this promise in this House. So the question remains in the air: When will this promise be fulfilled? It is hardly we who have misunderstood this when we ask the question of when a certain promise from the Social Democracy will be fulfilled. That is a completely absurd statement. Come on, Rikard Larsson, tell me! What year will this promise of economic gain be fulfilled?
i-26bab3612af8008c-788	Madam President, I would like This is nonsense. We can see great benefits from people coming to work in our country, and we can make it an economic gain if all the people who come here come to work. But we will never succeed in this if we withdraw the opportunities for them to enter society and get into work. The Swedish Democrats are basing their entire policy on marginalising these groups and telling them that they are not part of Swedish society and should remain outside. With this policy, we will neither profit nor make them feel welcome here. Instead, let us see refugee policy for what it is. Let us see refugees as people, welcome them and help them into society. Everyone benefits more from a community of solidarity than the cold society that the Swedish Democrats want.
i-26bab3612af8008c-791	Madam President, I would like Lowly, it is believed that the shadow society includes about 50 000 people, but there are police officers who believe that this is really about double. One reason for this is that a 'no' is not a 'no' in the asylum process. In the detention centre of the Finnish Immigration Service, people who have received a negative decision on their asylum application are placed, but there is a risk that they will deviate before the expulsion can be carried out. Today there are about 520 detention centres divided into six detention centres, the northernmost of which is located in Gävle. In his main speech, Rikard Larsson sounded like he was very pleased with this. It's not us. Today, the lack of detention places leads to the departure of people. According to the Finnish Immigration Service and the police, approximately double the number of detention places would be needed, 1 100 - 1,200 places. When the border police find a person who is not entitled to stay here, they can either look between their fingers or release someone who is already in custody in order to take that person into custody. It is therefore clear that detention centres must be increased, and a detention facility is also needed in northern Sweden. We therefore increase in our budget the appropriations for the detention centre by 75 million in 2022 and 150 million per year from 2023. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, do not listen at all to the cries of their own authorities and do not spend any more money. The Migration Board would even have to close detention places if the Social Democrats' budget had won. I'm very glad it hasn't. I still wonder: why do the Social Democrats not want to spend more money to ensure that a 'no' really becomes a 'no'?
i-26bab3612af8008c-798	Madam President, I would like I agree with Maria Stenergard that it is important that a no is a no. I also believe, as I mentioned in my speech, that more efficient processing and shorter processing times also lead to a more effective return, along with a variety of other measures that also need to be taken so that we have efficiency in return. We do not disagree at all that a no should be a no. After that, not everyone who receives a negative decision on their asylum application needs to be detained in anticipation of expulsion. We also need to work on processes already early in the asylum process in relation to what happens to a person when an asylum application is rejected in order to prepare for a good return once it has its decision. I also mentioned that it is not the case that the Socialist Government has not invested in the expansion of detention centres. Since 2016, we have expanded the number of detention centres by more than 100 per cent. It is clear that it is from those levels that we took over after Maria Malmer Stenergards's party colleagues had sat and ruled over the issues. There has been a need for a substantial expansion, and we have made a substantial expansion. We cannot rule out the need for further expansion. But it should also be said that from the situation we are in now, the number of places available is increasing. We are making a return to normal mode from the pandemic where you had to sparse out the seats and have fewer seats. There will also be an increase in the future.
i-26bab3612af8008c-802	Madam President, I would like I am well aware that the number of detention centres was reduced. The figure I mentioned was 520, which is about half of what is actually needed. That's when there's full capacity on the repository. In fact, if the Social Democrats' budget had won, the Migration Board would have had to close fully functioning detention sites. It runs counter to an alleged ambition to have an orderly immigration policy. I would like to raise another issue that Rikard Larsson mentioned in his speech. It's about labour immigration. We carried out a substantial liberalisation of the regulatory framework. But we have also been following developments in the labour market, and we have been monitoring the development of crime. We have noted that today we have a completely different labour market, and we have a completely different criminality that has found new ways. We have a low count of 600 000 foreign-born people here of working age who are supported by benefits and are not self-sufficient. It is at the same time several thousand who come here every year to work as a newspaper carrier. When can we see suggestions, Rikard Larsson?
i-26bab3612af8008c-807	Madam President, I would like Soon, Maria Malmer Stenergard. The government will very soon be making proposals on labour migration. I am very pleased with that. The information I have received is that proposals are coming before Christmas. I hope that we will then be able to deal with these proposals in good faith in committee. We should remember with regard to the investigation that has been carried out that we have helped each other in a slightly different way in committee to write the directives. There have also been initiatives from M, KD and SD. There will be suggestions soon. I'm very happy about that. The last comment I would like to make concerns the detention centres. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that we are closing fully functioning detention sites. We should remember that this does not mean that we are reducing the volume of detention sites that we have today, which are, quite rightly, 520 places, as Maria Malmer Stenergard says. We'll keep that volume.
i-26bab3612af8008c-810	Madam President, I would like It's always a little scary when you're third on the ball, because then someone else might raise the very questions you were going to ask. I think that there are still things that one could think about together with Rikard Larsson, Member of Parliament. It's about detention sites. Does Rikard Larsson think it is good that the Riksdag will now have a budget where we provide additional resources to expand the number of detention places? I know that Rikard Larsson knows, just like I do, that the need for detention is about twice as great as what is in the current condition. My question is: Does Rikard Larsson think it was good that we now have a budget that provides resources for the expansion of detention sites? Then the Member of Parliament had a very important discussion about this with the segregation. Does the honourable Member think that there is any better way to succeed in integration than to succeed in economic integration and that people come to work and become self-sufficient? I ask this question against the background of that taking 20 years for half of those coming from the Middle East to achieve self-sufficiency. After 20 years, half is still dependent on subsidies. They have been for 20 years, and they continue to be. For me, this is one of the main reasons why we do not succeed. Those who come here to our country don't come to work. If you don't get into work, it's a cost that has to be paid. It is not riveted in stone that immigration by definition needs to be costly. It can even be a revenue. This was the case in Sweden until the 1970s. Then it changed in the 80s, and from the 90s onwards it has been a cost. That's because it takes too long to get people who come here to come in real jobs.
i-26bab3612af8008c-817	Madam President, I would like I always find it nice when my colleagues and Members of Parliament start by saying that we can think about this for a while. That sounds very relaxed. I also think that it is a small agenda with the questions. This is definitely the first question. I don't think you should fall into that trap. As I said in my speech, the budget is about seeing the whole. Of course, there are a lot of posts that I could point to and say: Is it good or bad with that post? Is that extra money for that authority good or bad? It depends entirely on what one's priorities are instead removed. Is it good to have $85 million in custody? Not if, instead of giving the parents who are supposed to be at home with their children and having a family week paid, they don't give anything. Then I'd say that's a bad priority. It is not a good idea to abolish aid for the construction of rental apartments in which people can live. Then it's probably also a pretty bad priority. It is not only possible to tear out a small proposal in this way and say: Is it good or bad to give 85 million dollars more to the custody? That depends on what the options are. It is therefore also important to see the budget as a whole, as we have explained several times. The honourable Member's second question was about integration. Is there a better way than getting to work? No. It is my conviction that the absolutely safest and best way to achieve good integration is to ensure that those who can work also work and get to work. However, the way to work is very different. Society must support all the way in order not to get bogged down in dependency, but rather to get to work.
i-26bab3612af8008c-823	Madam President, I would like I note that Rikard Larsson has been doing politics for a long time; he does not answer the question. However, I am buying that there are arguments that can serve that reasoning. But then I ask the question like this, Rikard Larsson : Does Rikard Larsson think that 520 detention places are enough? Somewhere it is, after all, from where the priority must always go, that is, what it is you want to achieve. My second thought is: When you want to have money for things – politics is about prioritising – we have put forward a budget where we do not invest in extra services but on new start-ups, which turns out to have much better ability to deliver jobs – also half so expensive. We have just received a new government and a Prime Minister who says that we should now start turning stones and start getting started. You should have done that seven years ago. This is not a new problem we have with long-term unemployment and exclusion.
i-26bab3612af8008c-827	Madam President, I would like I thought I answered both of the questions Hans Eklind asked, but I can answer them again. Whether 520 seats are enough is not really up to us. It is for the authorities to make that assessment. Then it is up to us to assess how money can be put into the state budget. I would think that with both the honourable Member's and our budget there are quite a few authorities who would say that the money is not really enough. However, these are the priorities that must be set, and we think it is important to give priority also to those who are at home with their children paid for it, rather than being seen as unpaid, as the honourable Member wants. When it comes to extra services and new start jobs, I think it's worth looking at all forms. But in Malmö, as I took as an example, I think they have 1,700 jobs in the form of extra services. I don't think it's a good idea to turn that stone around by kicking those who have those jobs and giving them new jobs.
i-26bab3612af8008c-830	Madam President, I would like Migration is an issue that concerns and that almost all Swedes have an idea about, but unfortunately it is often an issue where politicians and opinion-makers like to simplify and black out. Me and the Center Party have a genuine belief that people who flee to Sweden, with hope and faith in a better and safer future, want nothing more than to get into and become part of Swedish society. When you run away from situations that we can't even imagine, have protection reasons and have been granted a residence permit, you should not be met by, Welcome to Sweden! 中, but then you should meet him! Welcome home! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Since last summer Sweden has a new migration legislation. It is good that we have finally got away from patching, repairing and temporary legislation. The new migration policy decided by the Riksdag just before the summer is largely very good. It provides good opportunities for family reunification, is in line with other EU countries and provides a broad humanitarian basis. The Center Party is the only bourgeois party that says no to negotiations and cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. This is important for Sweden and for people on the run. But it is also important in order to have a long-term approach to migration policy, contrary to what Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats now want. In the joint budget motion of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats there is a letter of intent about which migration policy the parties want to apply in the future. But let me be clear to all of you who are now concerned: the parties' joint declaration of intent on the policy of migration in the budget makes no difference in practice and therefore does not affect our current migration regime at all. However, the threat is not over. M, KD and SD have negotiated and agreed on a common migration policy in the budget – to tear up the new migration legislation that came into place as late as last summer in order to re-establish the system in a less sustainable and more restrictive direction. After several years of temporary and inadequate legislation, stability and long-termism are now needed – not a new policy of overwhelming asylum legislation that makes it unreasonable, uncertain and restrictive. Very little opportunities for family reunification and a very limited humanitarian basis are two things on which the parties now agree with the budget. That would be bad for Sweden, but above all for people seeking security in our country. This is what happens when the Swedish Democrats are given real influence over migration policy. I am worried about what the next profit for the Swedish Democrats will be in future joint budget negotiations between M, SD and KD. What will be the next step in the parties' common migration policy? If SD is allowed to decide, we will introduce an outreach activity that seeks to induce people with a residence permit and legal right to reside in Sweden to return to their countries of origin. It is a Sweden that the Center Party does not want to see. Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that the budget we are going to decide on does not mean that Sweden's migration legislation is being demolished but that there is still a broad humanitarian basis and good opportunities for family reunification. At the same time, it is worrying that the Swedish Democrats have received a joint declaration of intent on migration policy with the budget. The Cent Party's budget bill is clear. We are the voice in Swedish politics for a migration policy that combines humanity and humanism with order. We are a stable force in the middle of Swedish policy for a stable, long-term, humane and legally secure migration policy. It is precisely stability that I think migration policy needs now. We do not need a new migration regime again. We need to focus on the actual problems, such as the too long processing times to become Swedish citizens. Having said that, Madam President, I would also like to say that there is a great deal in the area of migration that is not part of the new migration policy that we decided on for the summer, such as new, sharp proposals on how to improve voluntary return. Here I hope that the government will listen to the Riksdag and in the near future will also return to the Riksdag with such proposals. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party. We will therefore not be taking part in the decision.
i-26bab3612af8008c-842	Madam President, I would like There is some consensus that integration policy in Sweden is not working properly and that this is partly due to the fact that volumes have been very large for a long time. A fairly clear example of this is the emergence of so-called vulnerable areas, which the police describe as follows: They are characterised by a general inability to participate in the legal process and by systematic threats and acts of violence against witnesses, plaintiffs and reporters. It is almost impossible for the police to carry out their mission. There has been normalisation, which has led neither police nor residents to reflect on the deviant situation in the area. There are parallel social structures, extremism, fundamentalist influence that restricts people's rights and freedoms, as well as people who travel to fight in conflict areas and a high concentration of criminals. The reason why these areas have arisen does not reflect very much on the police, but for every clear-minded person in this country it should be quite clear that what these areas are particularly exposed to is the migration policy of the Center Party in combination with the integration policy of the Center Party. Despite all this, the Party leader of the Center Party has put forward a proposal that a goal for Sweden should be to receive 30 – 40 million new asylum immigrants during a certain period. How long this period would be, she did not specify, but it was about 30 million new people. This has caused some to raise some eyebrows, including me. I do not see it as feasible or reasonable. That is why I would like to ask Jonny Cato: is the Center still standing at the target of 30 million new asylum seekers? And, above all, how does Jonny Cato think that such a volume of new asylum seekers would affect the problems that we already have with exclusion today?
i-26bab3612af8008c-847	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the honourable Member is new in the area of migration policy. Both his two representatives have asked me exactly the same question about 30 – 40 million immigrants, and the answer is still the same: No, the Center Party is in favour of regulated immigration. That is also what the Center Party has voted in favour of in this House. But I understand that it will be great Youtube clips for Ludvig Aspling to present that kind of argument. I get a little annoyed when the Swedish Democrats attack the integration policy of the Center Party. At least we have an integration policy, unlike the Swedish Democrats. I have asked the Swedish Democrats' previous representatives in the migration debate the question: What proposals do you have to improve integration? I haven't got an answer once. Perhaps I can get it from the honourable Member now.
i-26bab3612af8008c-849	Madam President, I would like The reason why we come back to this question is, of course, that neither Jonny Cato nor anyone else from his party is able to give a sensible answer. After all, a target of 40 million new immigrants does not by definition mean that immigration would not be regulated. It can be regulated in a very loose way. It may still be that you have rules. So this is a non-answer. But let us ignore the 40 million. I can interpret Jonny Cato generously and say that I interpret the answer as saying that the Center Party is now withdrawing from this. 40 million is too much. Then I'd like to hear a number. What does Jonny Cato think that during the next four-year period Sweden should manage in the form of new asylum immigration without it having too serious consequences for our systems? The Swedish Democrats are clear: zero. We can't take any more asylum immigration. The problems are already too great. What number does Jonny Cato think is reasonable?
i-26bab3612af8008c-852	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has neither a target nor a limitation on how many people are to be protected in Sweden. It has to do with the fact that this is not how migration policy works. The Center Party stands up because the people who have asylum reasons and come to Sweden will also have the right to stay. The number of people affected by our policies at home and at European level. Above all, however, it is affected by the way things look in the outside world, how many people need to flee from war and oppression. For the Center Party, the right of asylum is inviolable. If you come to Sweden and have asylum reasons you should be allowed to stay. That's the Center Party starting point. Therefore, it is not possible to set either a target for how many will come or a limit on how many will be allowed to stay.
i-26bab3612af8008c-854	Madam President, I would like Jonny Cato from the Center Party talks a lot about the new Aliens Act and says it should not be changed. I think it's rather problematic. I believe that Sweden needs a long-term sustainable migration policy, and it is not sustainable in the long term if it is 175 MPs against 174 who are behind large parts of the legislation. The majority of a mandate is not enough. What Sweden needs is a long-term, common approach to migration policy. Both the Social Democrats and the Moderates must be part of such an agreement if it is to be sustainable in the long term. It is not sustainable in the long term because the Social Democrats are playing away sacred cows for themselves to have government power. It is not a long-term sustainable migration policy. In addition, we see that the foreigner's team we adopted was quite a bit of a hafsverk. For example, we see this when researchers are now expelled from Sweden because they cannot meet the requirement for long-term employment relationships. However, that is not what I really wanted to talk about. I notice a shift in rhetoric in the speech by the Center Party. All previous years I have always heard the Center Party mention that SD and V should have no influence. In Catos Jonny's speech, V is not mentioned at all. My question is: what is the Center Party's attitude towards the Left Party in the future? Is the Center Party going to settle on migration policy with the Left Party? Is the post-election Center Party planning to enter into a budget cooperation with the Left Party or a cooperation where the Left Party's influence is required? I see a shift in the rhetoric of the Center Party and would like to know this.
i-26bab3612af8008c-858	Madam President, I would like I will honestly say that I do not believe that any of the parties involved in the negotiations on the new migration policy may doubt the willingness of the Center Party to reach a broad agreement. The Center Party was prepared to compromise, to be honest, perhaps something more than any other party, so that we would actually get along. We fought, and I fought, to keep both Moderates and Social Democrats at the negotiating table. We really did ours. I agree that a broad agreement would certainly have been best for Sweden and for people on the run. Unfortunately, I can also say that we were too far apart. The answer to the second question is that what I commented on in my speech was the budget that went through in the Swedish Parliament. There it is SD that has influence and not the Left Party. We in the Center Party have been clear about our actions around the Left Party, and that is also why we voted in favour of our own budget motion and then abstained.
i-26bab3612af8008c-861	Madam President, I would like I am very aware that the Center Party did a lot to get an agreement with more parties. I think it is absolutely crucial that the Center Party, the Liberals, the Moderates and the Social Democrats manage to agree on a long-term sustainable migration policy. The migration policy adopted in the Aliens Act had influence over the Left Party. You have to admit that. I do not think we can go further than to admit that Parliament has eight parties where everyone has something to say about, informally or formally. However, I would like to understand a little more: does the Center Party intend to settle again the migration policy with the Left Party and vote the same there, or do you have plans for budget cooperation with the Left Party? It's a little unclear. Of course, we would rather that the Center Party cooperates with us bourgeois parties in the future.
i-26bab3612af8008c-863	Madam President, I would like The current migration policy was not negotiated with the Left Party. It was the proposal of the Migration Policy Committee in its main parts that went through. There, the Left Party may have had the most reservations of all, but it then chose to vote for the proposition that was on the table because it felt that it was better than the opposition's alternative proposals. No, the Center Party has no plans to settle the future migration policy with the Left Party. I also believe that the Liberals know this well from the outset.
i-26bab3612af8008c-865	Madam President, I would like We Liberals believe that it was good for Sweden that the Red Green Party budget for 2022 did not go through in the vote. At the same time, there were elements in the M-led budget that the Liberals could not support. We therefore had our own budget exercise and are not taking part in the vote tomorrow. However, a budget is not enough to reverse developments in Sweden. After the elections next autumn, we need a liberal bourgeois government that focuses on the school of knowledge and the integration of people living in exclusion. Sweden should be the country of opportunity for those who choose to move here. Our long tradition of openness to the outside world has contributed to our development, wealth and well-being. Today, here are people who have roots in every corner of the world. All major languages are spoken here. Even I do. It makes our country richer and more pluralistic and strengthens our labour market, especially in the global market in which we live. We want Swedes to be able to work and study around the world, and we think that people should also be able to come here to work and study. Globalisation is good for the world, for Europe, for Sweden, for individuals and also for me. Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has major integration problems. It is not immigration that is the problem, it is exclusion. With the high search pressure and the large relative migration that Sweden has had in recent years, the burden on our already vulnerable areas has increased too much. Politics must give priority to exclusion in the future, and that is why we liberals have changed our migration policy since 2015. The Liberals are behind the austerity measures in the Aliens Act decided by the Parliament this summer. The new dependency requirements, temporary residence permits as a general rule and the requirement for longer employment relationships for permanent residence permits are reasonable. But we would have liked the new Aliens Act to have been shaped according to Sweden's best interests and not after the Social Democrats could have satisfied their support parties. Madam President, I would like Today, Sweden has over 600 000 adults born abroad on such low incomes as to risk poverty and social exclusion, and above all the group of women who have come here as refugees. This corresponds to a whole of Gothenburg. It is a great failure for us who want to see Sweden as an open society. It is also clear that failure to integrate is being inherited today. The gang-criminal boys who shoot each other to death in gang arrangements are almost all born at the Eastern Hospital in Gothenburg, at Karolinska in Stockholm, in Malmö or at other Swedish hospitals. Every other guy who lives in an exposed area ends high school with incomplete grades. This is totally unacceptable and will lead to even greater problems in the future. At the same time, we see that young girls with foreign background who pass school have a higher salary than other girls after ten years in the labour market. This proves that the best integration for Sweden and the best preventive work against crime is a functioning knowledge school – the Liberals Knowledge School. For adults, it is important that women and men who come to Sweden come to work and, above all, that they learn the Swedish language and that we fight Islamism and the oppression of honour that exists in vulnerable areas. We Liberals will demand that the introduction of language tests be postponed when we take power next autumn. It is good that other parties have started to wake up and now realize that it is a matter of power to be able to speak the Swedish language – the power to help their children with their homework and stop them from being recruited to criminal gangs, the power to get a job and thus gain power over their wallet, the power to choose their elected representatives in elections, the power to be able to leave a violent partner and the power to understand political debates in parliament and watch the news. It requires that you know the Swedish language in order to have that power. If the former Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson and other leading Social Democrats had not been smudged for years by the Liberals' proposal on language and social testing, for example, Sweden would not have had the enormous alienation that we see today. Most recently a couple of months ago, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, on Twitter, smudged my proposal to make it easier to lay off gang criminals from their apartments. It was a proposal about putting suburban people's right to security over gang criminals. Just a few months later, Morgan Johansson, the same person, proposed the same thing to the Congress of the Social Democrats. It is quite clear that the Social Democrats have no plan or idea to reverse exclusion. It is still the benefit line and lifelong exclusion that applies to S. When you change taxes, they should be reduced for beneficiaries and not for those who work. The integration and migration policies of the social democrats simply do not go together. There's no red line. One could not even answer the Christian Democrats' question about the number of detention places. The Migration Agency wants 1 000 detention centres, and then it is clear that we should deliver 1 000 detention centres. Madam President, I would like We now see that this policy also affects migrant workers. There is tremendous potential in people coming to our country to work or research. We now see, for example, in Gothenburg that Northvolt and Volvo are investing in large, new industries and research centres. Swedish companies should be able to employ specialists and top students from all over the world, and they should be able to study at Swedish universities. Today, despite the lack of skilled labour, we are expelling these people from the Swedish labour market. People are forced to leave the country because of minor mistakes such as the employee taking too little vacation or receiving a salary that is just under collective agreements or the employer missing out on insurance. An investigation is currently under way to change today's rules, to which we have contributed from the Liberals, because the rules must be effective and strong. We are also prepared by the Liberals to stop the cheating that is going on with labour immigration. We'd love to. It is a pity that the current immigration minister, Ygeman, says no to the invitation of the Moderates and says in the newspaper that he has not even read the debate article from the Moderates. That is not how politics is conducted. Madam President, I would like The new Aliens Act has also proved to be unreasonably hard on foreign doctoral students and researchers. This is because there is a rare shortage of longer employment within academia, which means that the new requirement for longer employment relationships will be difficult to meet. In addition to the Foreigners Act 2014, foreign doctoral students were able to apply for a permanent residence permit after four years. This addition has now been abolished, and it is because it was a mess with the Migration Policy Committee – when no agreement was reached, legislation was agreed that was not well thought out. Researchers and PhD students are a very special group that requires special legislation. A derogation should therefore be introduced for this group. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a liberal migration policy with both the heart and the brain – heart enough to be able to receive quota refugees and secure the right of asylum in combination with reason enough to have a migration policy that allows you to succeed with integration, dare to make demands on Swedish language skills and have a duty of livelihood. Sweden needs Liberals' migration policy.
i-26bab3612af8008c-882	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah says: If the Migration Agency needs 1,000 detention centres, we deliver 1,000 detention centres.
i-26bab3612af8008c-884	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, having the ambition to have 1 000 detention places or to respond to what one expert authority says, I think is going well regardless of what is or is not in a budget.
i-26bab3612af8008c-885	Madam President, I would like I'm going to help Robert Hannah with the answer to the question of how many detentions the Liberals have in their budget of these 1,000 that he thought they should deliver. The answer is zero. Liberals don't invest in detention sites. Standing in the speaker's chair and talking about delivering what the authorities think you should deliver is nonsense. You're not delivering any more detention sites. You are not delivering any more policy than is contained in the government's draft budget. However, you are delivering a little less resources in your draft budget. All the fair talk about living up to what the authorities want is zero and not worth, because you are not delivering on it. Madam President, I would like This is a little symptomatic of the Liberals' attitude throughout migration policy. I remember the Liberals as the party that said in the discussions on migration policy: the important thing is that you agree; we do not need to be involved. It is very much the policy of the Liberals.
i-26bab3612af8008c-888	Madam President, I would like The big problem with the Social Democrats' migration policy and integration policy is that they are two separate worlds and do not stick together. There's no red thread. That is the big problem, and that is what I emphasised. The fact that we in the Liberals have no more detention places in our budget does not mean that we do not have that ambition. But let's talk about the red thread here. If you want such a migration policy as the Social Democrats want, you should not vote for the Social Democrats, but you should obviously vote for the Liberals, because we have the policy that is the most similar and dare to stand up for that policy. The Social Democrats chose to adapt their migration policy to the Green Party, the Center Party and the Left Party. You chose power over the migration policy that Sweden needed and needs. As far as integration policy is concerned, there is a whole line of support. When you lower the tax, the tax should be reduced for people who are unemployed or who are on subsistence support and not for people who work. There's no red line. That's what I wanted to say. Get a red line and get back to the debate!
i-26bab3612af8008c-892	Madam President, I would like More people than ever are on the run in the world. At the same time, the will of countries with a good ability to help is far too weak. It is increasingly difficult to get to the EU to seek asylum. There are no legal ways for asylum seekers to come here and exercise their human right to apply for protection. Instead, people continue to make deadly journeys across the Mediterranean. Many times rank boats fail, and people lose their lives. At the same time, there is a completely different reality in the Swedish debate. It is not that people are forced to flee and the reasons for this are seen as problems, but the people themselves. This is where we've gone extremely wrong. People who are forced to flee war and persecution should be treated in the same way that we ourselves would like to be treated if it was we who were forced to flee our homes. In the debate on migration policy, we must never forget that we are talking about people. It is people who flee from war and oppression. And they often run away from life situations that most of us can't even imagine. In recent years there have been major changes to the Aliens Act, the legislation that regulates who gets a residence permit in Sweden. After years of investigations and calls for tougher action, the Migration Committee, where all parties were represented, failed to come up with proposals for new rules that would work in practice. The Committee's proposals, which came last year, were poor and would have led to disastrous consequences for people on the run if they had been implemented straight off. Several parties also wanted to try to tie up the government in order to introduce a target to reduce the number of asylum seekers and demand that the government implement measures every year to get closer to the target. This would have meant that a government would have to worsen the situation of people on the run every year. The Green Party could not accept this, but negotiated better rules in the government with the Social Democrats. We pushed for a new humanitarian protection base to be introduced for people who have had a strong connection with Sweden and that special and particularly distressing circumstances would be reintroduced as a reason to stay. Very vulnerable people who have lived here for a long time now again have an opportunity to stay in Sweden. The Committee's proposals on requirements for civic knowledge and language skills in order to obtain a permanent residence permit are also postponed. The Green Party sitting at the negotiating table made all the difference. At the same time, parties are still pushing to tighten up, with major consequences for people's lives as a result. In this budget management, the alternative proposals of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats have won the majority. It has direct implications for migration policy. More detention places will be set up, and the government will be forced to introduce a anklet as a complement to detention for people waiting to be expelled. This policy has become a reality because the Center Party chose to release it when they abstained. The consequence of the budgetary decision taken by this House is that next year Sweden will have a policy that will lead to increased emissions and give forest owners less opportunities to protect their forests. It is a budget that will mean fewer cheap rentals and more stringent measures against people on the run. Sweden can do better than that. Rather than bringing about deterioration for people and the environment, we can actually do the opposite. We can develop emission reduction policies that protect valuable nature. We can create a fairer society where we take care of both each other and our environment – a human society. Having said that, I refer to our specific opinion.
i-26bab3612af8008c-900	Madam President, I would like Work is the key to integration, usually many claim. Although I don't think it's quite that simple, I'm willing to agree, to some extent. I myself was an immigrant in Japan for many years with a very simple job, in my case a nurse. Compared to other immigrants who lived there, I was quite well integrated, precisely because I had the everyday contact with a normal workplace that was only possessed by the locals. In Sweden, the problem is that very many people do not support themselves. This is largely because many people have low qualifications, and the jobs that require low qualifications are far too few. But there is one more problem: the ultra-liberal view of labour immigration by the Green Party. The Green Party wants it to be free to bring cheap labour from poor countries to really any occupation. As a result, people who are already far from the labour market find it very difficult to compete. Many simply do not get the chance I once had. I would therefore like to ask Axel Hallberg whether he agrees with me that work is partly the key to integration. If so, why does he want it to be so difficult that people who are far from the labour market should have to compete with cheap labour from, for example, Bangladesh or India?
i-26bab3612af8008c-904	Madam President, I would like Integration policy has an incredible number of important elements. Work is an important part, but the other parts must not be forgotten. It is about education and having an equal school system. It is about housing policy and that we should build cheap rental apartments. But it is also about leisure activities, culture and cohesion. It is not easy to integrate into society or to get and take a first job if you live in an incredibly vulnerable situation and do not feel that you are admitted to Swedish society. There are many elements to migration policy that are important. We're not gonna make it any easier than it is. Labour immigration is also important for Sweden and for many people. We do not want to make it difficult for people to come to Sweden and work. And we do not believe in different quotas or that it is the state that best determines employers' need for labour. The employers do. That is the basis of our labour immigration policy.
i-26bab3612af8008c-906	Madam President, I would like Axel Hallberg is completely wrong. I've gone through that process myself and know what I'm talking about, unlike Axel Hallberg. Leisure activities are in no way as important as having a job. Axel Hallberg also mentions rentals as an important integration measure. But what is it you need to rent a dwelling in Sweden? Think about it a little bit, Axel. Well, you need a job. Is labour migration important for Sweden? Yeah, some of it is. Labour immigration looks a bit like an hourglass. There are a lot of jobs at the top, but there are also many jobs at the bottom. And the question is about the latter. Does Axel Hallberg seriously believe that it is important for Sweden to be able to bring in staff from poor countries to work for cheap wages in the fast food industry, for example? Is Axel Hallberg seriously saying that none of the hundreds of thousands of people who are looking for a job today can manage those jobs?
i-26bab3612af8008c-910	Madam President, I would like What I said was that there are many important elements to integration policy. I do not think at all that you should ridicule, such as leisure activities, which are incredibly important for many children and young people to get into society. They can make new friends, get a context and learn the Swedish language. I do not think that the Swedish Democrats should in any way ridicule it. We also see that in the vast majority of municipalities there is an incredibly large housing shortage. It is clear that it also affects the vulnerable groups. We need to build more housing to enable more people to enter the labour market. I outlined our approach to labour migration. It is also important to say that the labour market is not constant. There are not a certain number of jobs in Sweden that will always be the same. It is clear that the number of jobs can increase or decrease. The fact that a labour immigrant gets a job in Sweden does not mean that someone else gets out.
i-26bab3612af8008c-913	Madam President, I would like Axel Hallberg has listened to some of our speeches and to the debate that is taking place here. After all, you jump in and take part in the debate, but with reference to the detention centres, I would still like to ask you a question. We have a situation of 520 detention centres, and we have a migration service but also a police authority that says we need double. Then KD, M and SD, whose draft budget was approved in Parliament not so long ago, have spent a little more money on detention sites but also on electronic surveillance. There is a reason for this. Building detention centres is right and proper, not least when you see that there is a twice as much need compared to the places that exist today. But building detention centres is not easy. They're supposed to keep certain security levels and so on. It takes some time to build up those sites, which at least all the responsible authorities agree on. Axel Hallberg talks about what happens when KD, M and SD decide. Then we are spending money on, for example, electronic monitoring. I want to ask Axel Hallberg a question. According to the Swedish Security Service, there are about 2 000 people in Sweden who are violent Islamists. Among them are a number of imams that cannot be expelled. So they run around at large here in Sweden. If it is now the case that expulsions that Sweden wants to do cannot be carried out, can Axel Hallberg see that there is a point that we know where these people are?
i-26bab3612af8008c-917	I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President and are not using you and you.
i-26bab3612af8008c-918	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is of course important that we have detention places in Sweden and that it works well. What I am critical of is that, with the priority contained in the draft budget from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, it is very clear that they choose to move forward with more stringent measures against those who have fled to Sweden. I think that is a wrong priority. As previous speakers have pointed out, the three in-depth parties also describe how they view the future of Swedish migration policy. I think it is a particularly boring and dark reading. It is no secret that the Green Party stands for a completely different policy. We want to welcome people to Sweden. We want people who run for their lives to have a new home in Sweden. Of course, it is important for us as a society to know where the people who pose security risks are and be able to manage them properly. On this issue, I have great confidence in the work of the Security Service.
i-26bab3612af8008c-921	Madam President, I would like It is the Finnish Immigration Service and the police who have stated that we need to double the number of seats. We have heeded that priority. If twice as many are needed, we must start moving in that direction. So does the MP mean that the Migration Board and the police are wrong in calculating the number of detention places? These are not more stringent measures against those who have fled. These are people who have been refused their asylum application. This means that they should be rejected or expelled. They're the ones taken into custody. They are the ones who can also get electronic monitoring. It is not a question of having detention places or electronic monitoring when it comes to people coming to Sweden. But when you've got a no, that no's gonna apply. If the police and the Migration Board feel that this no will not be heard, so that a person enters the shadow society and exposes himself and others to danger, that person should also be able to be monitored in some way. When the detention centres are full, we need to find other instruments.
i-26bab3612af8008c-923	Madam President, I would like I believe, of course, that we can and should show humanity even to people who are to be expelled. As far as the number of detention centres is concerned, I naturally trust our authorities. But it is then up to us politicians to distribute the money into the state budget. I fully support the budget proposal put forward by the then S-MP government. It's about priorities. You can, of course, highlight what you have added, but you have also removed a great many important initiatives in this area too. Among other things, one previous speaker highlighted integration policy. I highlighted the housing issue, which is extremely important for people to enter Swedish society. You are removing support for the construction of cheap rental apartments.
i-26bab3612af8008c-925	Madam President, I would like Immigration has helped to create some of the world's most dynamic societies. When immigration and integration work well, it is good for a country and provides good conditions for it as an immigrant to create a better future for itself and its children. But that will not happen if the country receives more than it can integrate. Instead, immigration can create inequality and great contradictions. In recent decades, Sweden has had an unsustainable level of asylum immigration, while in practice we lacked integration policy. The devastating result is visible in virtually every area of society and affects not least the people who have fled conflict-affected areas, persecution and oppression. When you listen to the political debate it seems as simple as that the party that wants to let the most come within the Swedish physical borders is the one that is most humane. It then doesn't matter if all those who have come here get a place in society for real. I mean, it's all wrong. We must take full responsibility for those whom we have granted protection, so that they cross the border not only to our country but also to society for real. That's what's humane. Anyone who sees the problems of integration and concludes that we actually have a duty to everyone who has come here to stay, but also to everyone who lives here, to reduce immigration, so that we can create the conditions for good integration – it is considered inhumane. Too many people choose to ignore the problems. And in Sweden of blinders, exclusion and hopelessness flourish. Between 50 000 and 100 000 people live here without permission in a shadow society characterised by great vulnerability. Four out of ten children born in another country do not pass upper secondary school qualifications when they leave ninth grade. Lifelong dependency on benefits and economic exclusion have spread. Half of those who have come here since 1990 have not become self-sufficient. The difference in unemployment between Swedish-born and immigrants has never been greater. All of this reflects our terrible failure to integrate. It's a failure that crushes the dreams. It affects children who cannot or must not exploit their full potential and grow up to be their very best self. It affects those women who have escaped war and unrest but who are not given the opportunity to enjoy the freedom and equality that should be a matter of course for everyone in Sweden. It's possible to reverse the trend. I am absolutely convinced that we can do that. But it takes a huge amount. A prerequisite is a significant reduction in immigration over a long period of time. Madam President, I would like Over the past ten years, almost half a million people have applied for asylum in Sweden. 400 000 asylum-related residence permits have been granted. Although the number of asylum seekers has decreased compared to the record year 2015, we still stand out. The first half of this year we have received ten times as many asylum seekers as Finland and Norway. We cannot continue to stand out in relation to other comparable countries. Our asylum immigration should not be higher than in our Nordic neighbours. If we are to reach that volume target, the migration policy framework must be at an absolute minimum level. In the budgets of Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats, we also state that Swedish immigration policy should be adapted to the minimum legal level of EU law. But that will not be enough, Madam President. In addition, there is a need for qualification for welfare, an enhanced citizenship, enhanced identity control, more withdrawals of residence permits and a return that actually works. All of this is also good for integration. In practice, our generous welfare systems lock people into exclusion. I am convinced that most people who come to Sweden want to contribute. But with extensive contributions without expectations and hopes of being able to contribute of their own strength, it becomes more difficult to get into society. It's not humane. The grant line will never build a strong society. It is therefore right and important that we take the first step towards qualification for our welfare systems in the budgets of Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats. We are also making a great effort to get people to leave the country when they have been turned down on their asylum application. Today, only half of those who have been refused asylum applications leave the country voluntarily. This is a contributing factor to the growing shadow society. In the custody of the Finnish Immigration Service, persons at risk of departure are placed before the expulsion can be carried out. But there are few of them, and they are overcrowded. Lack of detention places should not have the effect that people who should be detained will not be detained or that detained persons will be released in order to leave the premises for more priority cases, as is now the case. The number of detention centres in Sweden must increase, and a detention facility is also needed in northern Sweden. We therefore increase the funding for the Migration Agency's detention operations by SEK 75 million in 2022 and SEK 150 million per year from 2023. However, this will not be enough. Detention needs to be complemented by the possibility of electronic monitoring. That is why we are putting money in the budget for this too. These are important measures to ensure that a 'no' in the asylum process is also a 'no' for real. Madam President, I would like This budget contains far from all that is necessary to reverse developments and bring immigration into line. That task is enormous, but I am convinced that it can be solved. With this budget, we are taking important steps towards more orderly immigration, and when the government has been replaced, we will ensure that Sweden is also in order. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Finally, Madam President, I would like to wish the President, the committee colleges and the cabinet a really merry Christmas and a happy New Year. I'll see you in the New Year!
i-26bab3612af8008c-945	Madam President, I would like Sweden's rules in the area of migration policy are in urgent need of a complete renovation. Today we are experiencing crises with hundreds of thousands of foreign born who are trapped in long-term welfare homes, with organised crime that is allowed to control entire neighbourhoods, with well-organised and politically motivated Islamism that is deliberately financed by the Swedish state, with the systemic corruption that exists in civil society and the assistance industry and with the widespread trade in both people and residence permits. These crises are and have been well known for a long time, long before 2015. But the Social Democrats have dealt with them in the same way as they deal with most problems, i.e. by ignoring, ignoring, talking about something else, ignoring a little more and then, when it no longer goes, blaming everything on some mysterious structure or on free schools or on right-wing extremism. This tendency of the government party to always blame everything on someone else reached Zenit the other day, when the Swedish Democrats, Christian Democrats and the Moderates invited Anders Ygeman to talk about the future of labour immigration policy. The answer we got from Ygeman was that it is we in the opposition who are causing these problems. The Social Democrats have nothing to do with this. In other words, the government's message to voters is this: do not expect us to lift a finger. Whether the Social Democrats are in power for 7 or 17 or 70 years, they will never take responsibility for anything ever. If it is something you must give to the Social Democrats, it is that they have their self-confidence intact, after all. They started by sitting paralysed and uninterested in 2015, leading to an acute crisis. They then relied entirely on the situation to be resolved by closing both internal borders and external migration routes in other EU countries. They then spent a couple of years smearing the same EU countries for saving us – while taking credit for reducing the volumes of asylum seekers themselves. Now they have as a communicative strategy to say that we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in many years thanks to their own actions, when everyone knows that it is because countries such as Greece and Poland are pulling the heavy load and, of course, to the temporary travel restrictions due to the pandemic. The cosmetic changes to the asylum legislation that have been pushed through during the mandate have had the greatest impact on the situation in the margin. But there is something else that the Social Democrats are less happy to talk about, and that is the future and the actual migration forecast. Over the next four years, the Finnish Immigration Service estimates 66,000 new asylum seekers – first-time applicants, not extensions but completely new applicants – as well as 139 000 new extension cases, i.e. family immigrants, and 216 000 new applications for work permits. Let me say something about these statistics. Certainly, the number of asylum seekers is lower than in 2015, but we cannot always compare with the year of the disaster. The figures must be set in relation to Sweden's integration potential, i.e. how many new asylum seekers we can receive without having serious consequences for our systems. In this context, 66 000 people are too many. It is certainly true that not everyone who shows up will receive approval, but as it stands today, it is equally true that far from anyone who receives rejection actually needs to leave the country. As far as the 139 000 dependants are concerned, there is no effective requirement that the connecting person, i.e. the person who wants to bring them here, should be able to support these new immigrants. You do not need to have a dwelling outside the so-called vulnerable areas either. In other words, it is possible to live in relative poverty and receive benefits in an already vulnerable area from day one. As far as the 216 000 work permits are concerned, we can only note that the labour immigration system invites corruption, abuse and trafficking in both residence permits and people. I am unsure how often Swedish authorities use the concept of slavery when they discuss a problem picture, but in the Swedish National Audit Office's review number 27 from 2020 called State's efforts against exploitation of labour there is the word. There's something to think about. There is nothing to prevent labour immigrants from moving quite quickly from work to benefits once they have received a permanent residence permit. There is also no requirement that these people, if they want to bring their relatives here, actually have to be able to support them. With a salary floor of 13 000 SEK per month, it is quite clear that even labour immigrants easily become as much a loss for us taxpayers as they are a profit for rogue companies, forces that want to see increased global wage competition or organised crime. I have a very telling example: as far as labour immigrants from Iraq are concerned, there are more relatives than the workers themselves. It says something about how absurd the system is. All in all, it is about an estimated little more than 300 000 people, or a completely new Malmö, who will move in in the next few years without demands for cultural adaptation, without demands to learn Swedish, without demands for self-sufficiency, without demands to qualify into welfare, without demands for law-abiding and without demands to earn in any way the citizenship that the Social Democrats cannot wait to distribute. Madam President, I would like Nor is there any indication that the left parties have any interest whatsoever in fundamentally changing the system. The purpose of the so-called Migration Committee was obviously to delay and push the issue forward. The investigations that have been carried out in the area of migration policy since then have been insufficient. The Social Democrats are so tired that they are not even able to put forward a proposal for a proper labour market test for labour immigrants, even though this is something that they have promised in two electoral movements in a row and, at least on paper, an issue that they have been pushing for ten years. Really weak! Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new path, and this path has hopefully opened up with the agreement reached between the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates in connection with the budgetary process that we are debating here today. The agreement contains four points in the area of migration policy. Asylum migration should be adapted to the minimum legal level of EU law. Labour migration is limited, including the introduction of a higher wage floor. More expulsions and expulsions will be carried out, and priority will be given to the work against illegal immigration and people who are in Sweden illegally. In addition, there is a special appropriation to increase the number of detention places and a new electronic anklet system for persons to be deported or deported, which is not a day too early. The agreement is, of course, a major step in the right direction, above all because the party that the voters repeat ranks as it now also has a direct influence on the issue of migration with the highest credibility. This, Madam President, is good for Sweden. With this, I would like to thank you very much for the floor. I would like to support the committee's proposals and wish the other debaters and the Bureau a really good Christmas.
i-26bab3612af8008c-967	Madam President, I would like I sat into the longest and tried to keep myself when this whole squad from the honourable Member came about everything that is wrong in society and how the Social Democrats have ruined everything in our society. There are some who wonder why we as Social Democrats do not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. I think Mrs Aspling will give a fairly clear answer to that in his speech. It has been a very clear statement from the Swedish Democrats that the Social Democrats stand for all evil in this world. Well, that's a bit of an unsound description, I'd say. There are a couple of things I would like to raise. As far as labour immigration is concerned, we will be presenting proposals that I have presented. The directives adopted for the study on labour immigration involved several parties, because it involved a committee initiative. I would therefore like to ask Ludvig Aspling: What were the Swedish democrats' input into the directives? What revolutionary questions did the Swedish democrats have in them? The second question I would like to put to Ludvig Aspling concerns the foreign law that we adopted before the summer. There too it was a committee initiative, where among others the Swedish Democrats were present. I ask Ludvig Aspling: What revolutionary big Swedish-democratic ideas were included in these proposals? Maybe he can account for that. After all, it is a question of making proposals in Parliament, and then there is politics. You put forward a proposal that was negotiated with Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals. So I would like to know what large and revolutionary parts are there. The last question to Ludvig Aspling is a little personal, but it can apply to the whole SD: Ser Ludvig Aspling and the Swedish Democrats ever the individual behind the numbers?
i-26bab3612af8008c-974	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry, but I didn't quite get what Rikard Larsson said on the first two questions. There was something unclear. However, if the question was about the two studies in the field of labour migration that the Social Democrats have ordered – I understood that these were the two SOUs the question was – and what our approach to them is my simple answer here: the most important measures are not there, or they are not at all in these two investigations. What I am thinking above all is the question of a proper labour market test for labour immigration. It is an issue in which we basically agree. The Social Democrats have gone to elections on this issue twice in a row. They have been pushing the issue for ten years, but they have not been able to make a sharp proposal. I think it's weak. The Social Democrats know that if they put forward the proposal, there is very likely a majority for it in this House, and that will become a reality. But there is no proposal, and I think it is really bad. I almost have to put the question back to Rikard Larsson: why is this proposal not included, which the Social Democrats have gone to elections twice in a row? Why is it not included in any of the two studies in the field of labour immigration that we are now, perhaps, going to deal with? Why is that? It's very strange.
i-26bab3612af8008c-979	Madam President, I would like It's far too easy, Ludvig Aspling, to pretend you don't hear the questions because you don't know the answers. These were two fairly clear and simple questions. The directives for the labour immigration investigation were adopted by the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. There were additional directives from the committee because a number of parties tabled proposals for a committee initiative. Then I would like to ask: where was the policy of the Swedish Democrats in the directives? That was the first question – a simple question. The second issue was the Aliens Act, on which we decided in this House before the summer. There was a committee initiative in which the Swedish Democrats were involved. It was the policy they managed to agree with their comrades in the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and, in this case, also the Liberals. What were the great revolutionary grips in that policy? The last question I understand is that the Swedish Democrats rarely want to talk about. Do the Swedish Democrats ever see the individual behind all their figures?
i-26bab3612af8008c-983	Madam President, I would like As regards the supplementary directives for the investigation and the input we made there, I must apologise, but I do not have this in front of me. This happened before I sat on the committee that prepares these questions. I was working on completely different things when it went on, and I don't have the papers in front of me. But if Rikard Larsson is really interested, I can find them with great certainty, so we can talk about it later – maybe at the mulled mingle we are going to have tonight. As for the latter question, if we ever see the people behind the figures, the answer is: Yes, we absolutely do. In the previous shift, Rikard Larsson mentioned that there are many foreign workers working in Corona care. One such person is my wife. She was born outside Europe and works in Corona care. Now she's on parental leave, but she did it before then. We certainly see these people, but when dealing with politics, one must first and foremost look at the figures and the big picture. You can't get stuck and look at individual cases or fall in love with individual circumstances, because then you end up wrong. And that's what's happened in the last few years.
i-26bab3612af8008c-986	Madam President, I would like In my office here in Parliament, I have some paintings set up. One of them is an election poster from the election movement 2018, where I as a candidate for the Swedish Parliament expressed the opinion: We will live with, not next to each other. Before I entered the Riksdag, I had worked in a part of Örebro where I had seen that even Örebro is no longer connected. The fact that we have a Sweden that is not connected has not only to do with the big cities in the country. Even in my hometown, I had to work in a situation where a road separates two areas from each other. There are different realities depending on the side of the road. One has low unemployment and high median income, but on the other side of the road there is high unemployment, exclusion and vulnerability. The Christian Democratic vision of a community applies not only to some but to all. That is why we Christian Democrats are advocating a tight migration policy for many years to come, so that the community of society can be reestablished. It takes, I think, a certain amount of factual resistance to not see that Sweden has for a long number of years failed to integrate the people who have come to our country. Welcome here! We must also be able to say that welcome home! For real. A majority of Swedes agree. They want fewer refugees. I do not believe for a single second that this is an expression of xenophobia or a lack of generosity, on the contrary. The picture I get is that people mean that we can't accept people that we don't also take responsibility for and help to become part of our Sweden. Simply put, there is a social contract that must be honored between those who already live in Sweden and pay taxes. They want to see a Sweden that they can trust when they need help and support. The large reception that Sweden has had for a long number of years has led to serious integration problems. People who have come to Sweden with dreams and hopes for a better life have become caught up in unemployment, passivity and exclusion. Shadow societies, gang crime and honorary culture have been able to thrive in some places, so that the community has crumbled to unrecognizability. As responsible politicians, I cannot turn a blind eye to the extreme unemployment of immigrants from the Middle East, for example. Most people have a low level of education. They are not employable, and after 20 years it turns out that only half have been able to become self-sufficient. That is to say, half of them have lived and live on welfare benefits. I cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that we have growing exclusion areas. Today, there are 5,000 gangs of criminal youths who are prepared to use violence and often get away with it. This morning the Crime Prevention Council presented a report on youth robbery, which I believe we are all discussing not only here in Parliament but also at home. It's scary reading. It turns out that two thirds of those suspected of youth robbery between 2015 and 2019 have a foreign background. Among the plaintiffs, i.e. those who are victims of the robberies, the distribution between Swedish and foreign backgrounds is reversed. More than three out of four of the children robbed have Swedish background. Perhaps the most important task of Swedish politics over the next 20 years must be to get the situation right, which we have denied for too long. A tight migration policy is a fundamental requirement if we are to give ourselves the opportunity to do this. We must be able to create a community for everyone – a Sweden where we live, not next to each other. Madam President, I would like Swedish authorities do not currently have control over who is here in Sweden. The number of persons without a clear identity is growing and can probably be counted in the hundreds of thousands. We do not know who they are, nor do we know why they are here in Sweden. The problem of people who are in Sweden under false or no identity is widespread and, I believe, constitutes an increasing threat to public order. We have a parallel society that is only growing and we have lost control of who is here. ..................................................... The number of asylum seekers in Sweden who have proved their identity is very low. Between 2011 and 2016, passports were missing in between 81 and 91 per cent of cases. The 2017 Report states that if an asylum seeker's identity cannot be clarified, a residence permit can still be granted to foreigners who have come here for reasons other than their need for protection. In a report from earlier this year, the Swedish National Audit Office has shown how big the problem is. It emerges that the Migration Agency often cannot verify which people come to Sweden through family immigration. They state that identity documents in Iraq and Syria, from which Sweden has received most asylum applications in recent years, are often falsified. This may mean that the Migration Agency does not detect fake marriages and human trafficking or that people bring children to whom they are not parents, who are abused or who suffer in different ways, or that people make their way to Sweden for the purpose of participating in criminal networks. Sweden thus accommodates people whose identity we do not know. It is clear that today's work to clarify the identity of foreigners has reached the end of the road and is dysfunctional. We must make a strong move in politics. Part of this may be that we endorse the Christian Democrats' proposal that identification should be linked to the granting of permanent residence permits. For me, it feels like a minimum requirement that those who get the right to reside in Sweden must also permanently make their identity clear and not only likely as it is today. An identity requirement is a first step towards ensuring that potentially dangerous people do not permanently reside in Sweden. In addition to this, the identity requirement needs to be tightened up already in the initial asylum process and in the event of family migration. We would like to give the Migration Agency the right to collect, store and search biometric data for all foreigners who apply to Sweden. In conclusion, Madam President, we must achieve a better return. In the budget negotiated by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, which won the support of the Riksdag, there are additional funds allocated in this area to create more detention places. Before these places are available, those who have been refused their asylum application and who are suspected to depart will also be able to be equipped with a certain form of electronic monitoring. We believe that Swedish migration policy must be designed on the basis of our ability to integrate. The latter is what gives the immigrants who come here the chance to become one with Sweden – that we become one in Sweden, all citizens and those who have been given the right to reside in our country.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1003	Madam President, I would like Good day, ladies and gentlemen. It's nice to see everyone here this lovely evening. I would like to start by saying that we have not been in the decision and therefore do not intend to take a position on it either. Now this is about student aid. I am delighted that in recent years we have given increased opportunities for student support higher up in the ages. It's a great reform. It makes it better access to knowledge for more people, which is always extremely positive. With the little positive, let us start this debate. I would then like to say that the most important thing that has happened in this area recently, and particularly in the last year, is that we have finally started with the reform on employment protection and conversion, so that we can have greater flexibility, adaptability and security in the labour market. It's because of the Center Party's struggle. Year after year we have fought for this necessary reform of the Swedish labour market. Now we've finally come a long way. The idea is that these changes will come into effect on 30 June next year. We hope that we will succeed in that. The reason why this is important is that skills needs are huge in the labour market. A lot of people have not had access to the skills shift they needed to move on from their old work into the new society, which requires other things, bigger things and more knowledge than it may have required before. Most citizens have not been entitled to conversion. They haven't had the right to study in the middle of their lives. They haven't been compensated in the meantime. But now they're gonna get it. I'm really sorry because it took so long before we managed to get the rest of the Riksdag on these changes, but now we're there, and it's incredibly lovely. This means that we can take real steps towards creating the lifelong learning that Sweden needs. We can make the transition to the digital society and hopefully bring all the people together. We can raise the skills of our population. During the covidpandemine, we have seen that it is possible. Now we are taking it all the way and making it a right for the citizens. It's incredibly positive. This is perhaps a perspective that has not been so common in Sweden. Overall, we have focused on the security of the individual workplace. This means it's no longer just supposed to be there. Security must exist throughout the labour market. In fact, the only way to achieve this is to keep up with the development of skills and ensure that they are constantly developed. It's hard. It's not easy. We who sit here have good conversion packages. I am pleased that the rest of the population also has that opportunity, because it is needed. If you sit on the same job for four, eight or twelve years, you can sometimes get a little snowed into some skills that may not be needed in the rest of the labour market. I believe that many of us may discover it when we leave Parliament. Then it is great that there are conversion possibilities. As I said, I am very pleased that the rest of society now also has these opportunities. It is of course important that there is security in the individual workplace, but we can see that the pace of change in society has increased. The number of closures will increase. They're changing their offers. They invent new things. They face a market that is changing completely. Speed will increase, and then we will have to give the population opportunities to follow. It is a very healthy and good policy that has finally come through. We have fought hard with S to succeed in that. We have fought hard with the alliance government in the past without succeeding in it. But now we're finally there, which is very good. We have employers with us. We have the unions with us. This will make a great difference to society. Madam President, I would like As we take this further, it is very important to maintain that the skills that are needed are the ones that the labour market demands. And here we must maintain that it is perhaps not the Employment Service that is best at evaluating it, but it is the working life itself. To remember to use the entire working life to gain knowledge about what skills are needed and to use and broaden the entrance to what is the labour market needs is very important if we are to succeed in this. I would just like to say this: thank you for a pleasant year in the Committee on Education and Training. I am pleased that we have a higher level of intellectualism in the Committee on Education than we see in some other debates. I hope we can keep it today too. Merry Christmas to all of you, to the President and to you out there!
i-26bab3612af8008c-1018	Madam President, I would like The draft budget submitted by the government announced an increase in the interest rate on the student loan to finance the new conversion study grant. That is something the Left Party rejects. We believe that it is wrong to allow the loan collective to finance the new aid, although we welcome aid that makes it easier for people in the middle of their lives to study. Today, tens of thousands of people are with the bailiff because of debts due to difficulties in repaying the student loan. The number of non-payable debtors has increased over the years. It is therefore difficult to understand why the government and the majority of the committee choose to raise interest rates and thus to debt additional people. This leads, among other things, to raising the thresholds to higher education, which runs counter to the ambition to reduce skewed recruitment to Swedish universities. Sweden's generous study funding, with a grant part and a loan part with a low interest rate, has been and is an important part in enabling the children of the working class to study further. Madam President, I would like According to CSN's study on whether students should have studied without student funds and student loans, there were as many as 66 percent of the students with low-skilled parents and 44 percent of those with highly educated parents who probably would not have studied without student funds. Generous means of study are thus important for not only children of educated parents to choose to continue their studies. There are also studies that show that students are more likely to take out loans the higher education their parents have. This is quite true of other studies that show that children of low-skilled and professional students in upper secondary school have a much more negative attitude towards loans. The loan version can therefore be assumed to contribute to the social mismatch. It is already common for students with short-educated parents to finance their studies through work. Low interest rates on student loans are important for the large part that hesitates to take out loans. When the government announced about a year ago that the interest rate for 2021 would be 0.05%, the minister responsible said in his press release: An even lower interest rate is positive for the borrowers and makes our generous study support system more attractive. A year ago, therefore, a low interest rate meant that the student aid system became more attractive, but now they still choose to raise interest rates. In this way, with open eyes, the student support system is less attractive. At a time when social disparate recruitment to the university is increasing, we should focus our policy on reducing unfair recruitment rather than increasing it further by making decisions that cause those who are reluctant to go into debt to refrain from borrowing during their studies. This risks leading to even greater misrecruitment. The interest rate on the student loan also follows the overall trend in interest rates as it is based on the average borrowing cost of the State over the last three calendar years. Thus, an increase in the cost of borrowing by the State implies a higher student loan rate. When I was just working on repayments and deferrals on CSN, many people saw their loans increase as the interest rate exceeded the payments. This is a situation that could very well come back. In addition to the fact that an increase in interest rates can affect unfair recruitment to higher education and constitute an obstacle to those who can only finance their studies with student loans, the government also chooses to set young people's opportunities for education against older people's opportunities to change in the middle of life. This is something that we strongly oppose on the part of the Left Party. Madam President, I would like The left-wing budget has fallen in this part, and we are not taking part in the decision. I therefore refer to our specific opinion.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1028	Madam President, I would like In the February debate on study funding this year, I noted on behalf of the Liberals that our assessment is that the study funding system is in many parts well adapted. We do not usually stand very far away from, for example, the Social Democrats in terms of study funding. Sure, we want to see increased free amounts, and perhaps we were not entirely in favour of the start-up aid from the outset. However, it is a form of study that I have hailed from this speaker's seat as late as last year, as it has been shown that there are obvious positive aspects for those who are furthest from the labour market. We are pleased that last year, within the framework of the January cooperation, we were able to raise the upper age limit for entitlement to study funding. In other words, Madam President, I think I am rather balanced in debates. I don't usually swing criticism hello wildly, but today I'm pretty critical. My question to the Social Democratic Government is: How does one view the accessibility of Swedish higher education? The issue is topical and concerns the area of expenditure that we are debating here today. It also relates to the interest rate increase on CSN loans announced by the government in the budget bill, which remains after M-KD-SD's reservation. We in the Liberals clearly reject this increase in interest rates in our budget motion, which unfortunately and strangely fell. It is not a small increase, as one might think, of listening to some in the debate. For a student with a loan of 300 000 SEK, the costs will increase by around 1,600 SEK per year. It still sounds pretty little, says someone, or it's nothing to argue about, as someone expressed themselves on my Facebook page when I wrote about this. My answer is that this is probably worth arguing about. Thousands of people, especially students, have signed a petition to stop the announced increase. It is part of the question that shows why it is important. Let me give some other examples of why this is the wrong way to go. Firstly, Madam President, the OECD has previously stated that Sweden is one of the countries where higher education is the least profitable throughout the OECD. A Swedish post-secondary education of at least two years pays an average of 22 per cent more than an upper secondary education. For OECD member states, the corresponding average is 54%. Secondly, Madam President, this means that higher education is reduced in accessibility, not least for those who come from unskilled homes where high loans are often seen as a deterrent. One of the most common reasons why people today choose to give up student loans is that they do not want to burden their future economy. The availability of higher education, not least for people from unskilled homes, I have understood as a key word in a Social Democratic government. Then there are even clearer questions: why is this proposed in the budget? It is not just the Liberals, the Left Party or thousands of people in a petition that think this way. Saco notes that the proposal raises the thresholds to Swedish higher education. Increasing interest rates means paying back more money during your working life. This makes education more expensive, Saco writes. As education becomes more expensive, it raises the thresholds for higher education and is likely to mean that more people who choose between further studies or not do so. This would exacerbate the inverse recruitment to higher education and lead to fewer educated people in total, at a time when we need more educated people in Sweden, not fewer. Madam President, I would like In the general debate, it has sounded like the increase in interest rates has only come about as a consequence of the conversion study aid, which is the result of the LAS agreement, an agreement which the Liberals, moreover, fully support. But is that the whole answer? The budget notes that the credit losses of student loans are currently financed by appropriations on the State budget and that, when a new generous conversion study grant is expected to be provided from 2023, it is reasonable for the interest on student loans to be reformed so that it can cover the credit losses incurred and calculated on all loans. This is, of course, about credit losses, that is, students, former students and also supposed future students simply do not pay back the loans. They have moved abroad or simply refrain from paying back in various ways. Then the question is: why does the government not do more to find ways to collect unpaid student debt, rather than to place the burden on current and future students? Madam President, I would like In fact, Sweden's students – current and future – deserve better.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1041	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Liberals are now talking about how wrong it is that the interest rate on student funds should be increased in order for us to be able to introduce new student aid. What I am thinking about when I read the proposals for grants is that I cannot see that the Liberals have added any money to finance the conversion study aid, as the Left Party has done. I just want to know whether the Liberals have changed their minds there or whether the Liberals missed out on finding money for the new study aid system. Have you simply changed your mind? That's what I want to know. As I said, I am very pleased that the Liberal Party has changed its mind on this issue.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1044	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ilona Szatmari Waldau, for the question! No, we have not changed, but this is a situation that has arisen. We are behind the LAS agreement, but unlike the Left Party, we do not have a banknote press in the basement where we can print money for all expenses. We've funded our budget bill. That is what we come back to all the time when we are asked how we have financed this. We must see our budget motion as a whole. There is also funding to support the agreement on LAS and the conversion study aid.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1046	Madam President, I would like Now I don't really think I followed. The conversion study grant is to be financed under Category 15 Study support, and among other things, the Left Party has invested the money the Government expects to receive in its proposal in order to finance the conversion study grant. Liberals have not returned this money, that is to say, they do not reject the increase in the student loan rate in their budget. Once again, however, I am very pleased that the honourable Member is now saying that the Liberals support this. But there is no funding, and it is very boring. But it is only to join the Left Party budget next year.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1049	Madam President, I would like I can only repeat what I said earlier. Liberals have a budget motion in which we reject this increase, but we have coverage for this elsewhere. I therefore do not understand Ilona Waldaus's question. We are behind the LAS agreement, and we are behind what comes out of it. But we have other ways of financing this.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1050	Madam President, I would like My whole future has become much brighter. The education has done and shown me that everything is possible and given me and my life a meaning. Thank you Sweden and thank you CSN! This is one of many voices that testifies to the fact that education and generous student support are a battering ram for a better life and a more secure anchoring of the labour market. I am proud that, step by step, we Social Democrats have built up one of the world's most equal study grants that will enable people of different economic backgrounds to educate themselves, change careers and educate themselves throughout their lives and throughout the country. People are educationable, but politics must provide support on different conditions so that more people dare to take that step that can strengthen and equip for the jobs that already exist and the jobs that are to come. We know that many hesitate, but the uncertainty rarely has to do with talent but often stems from uncertainty linked to a social background where there has been neither studies nor student loans. The socio-economic factors still govern the opportunities for too many people to continue their education journey. We can never accept that. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats keep the doors wide open within all levels of the education system and create student support adapted to different needs so that more can be hired. The start-up grant is one example. It is a benefit for unemployed people aged 25 to 56 who have a great need for education at basic or upper secondary level. So far this year, 7 800 people have benefited from the aid. This is the largest number since the government introduced the support in 2017, and the majority are women who have chosen a lack of vocational training. It is important to remember that the majority of these thousands of individuals would not have dared to study if regular study funds had been the only possibility. I am therefore extremely pleased today to note that the right-wing Conservative opposition parties have finally recognised the importance of recruiting and equalising study start-up aid that will enable more people to obtain training that is needed in the labour market. The Christian Democrats seem to have reconciled that their previous strong concerns about a serious fraud with the start-up grant are not in line with reality. Equally liberating is the fact that the same party has now put its sacred principle behind it that study motivation should come only from an academic ambition. Madam President, I would like It is particularly gratifying that the Swedish Democrats now seem to have abandoned their cane horse about the unequal distortions of the start-up aid and have come to an understanding of the opposite, namely that equality increases when gates are opened even to men and women with immigrant backgrounds. Many of them, thanks to the start-up support, get a strong hold on the labour market, integrate, become freer and shape their own lives. It is precisely this that is our political essence in the education system, that everyone regardless of background and economic conditions should be able to study. Madam President, I would like That's how we strengthen the individual's freedom to shape his own life. That's how we strengthen our community building. This is how we strengthen Sweden's ability to continue to be a leading world-class knowledge nation. The benefits are the benefits of the individual, but also of society as a whole. Now more and more people are choosing to study with study funds. Last year, the number of students with student funds was nearly 560,000. It is a clear signal that the aid is both attractive and recruiting. Moreover, the general purchasing power of study funds has never been as great as it has been since the introduction of modern study funds in 1965. Madam President, I would like Today's rapid development requires constantly new knowledge. Education cannot be confined to the younger years of our lives. No, learning needs to be a lifelong process. We have therefore decided to increase the upper age limit for entitlement to study funding and start-up aid from 56 to 60 years and to change the refund rules by the corresponding number of years. Now the government is taking the next big step and implementing the biggest freedom and security reform in decades. A historical conversion study support is introduced to ensure that you can switch up and change during your working life in order to strengthen your position in the labour market. The reform means that the economic conditions for education and training are significantly improved for those in the middle of working life, have work experience and are used to having an earned income. The vast majority will be able to study at up to 80 percent of their previous salary during 44 full-time weeks starting on 1 January 2023. Madam President, I would like This important security reform can cost the state up to 9 billion a year. The Government has therefore proposed, as a first step, that the interest rate on student loans should be increased by approximately 0.5 percentage points as part of the funding. The idea is that it will happen from 2023. Today, the interest rate is 0.05%, which is basically a zero rate. For an average borrower who has studied at a post-secondary level, this change would mean an increased cost of approximately SEK 40 per month when the student loan is repaid. For an average borrower who has studied on a longer education course of five years, this change would mean an increased cost equivalent to approximately SEK 70 per month when the student loan is repaid. Thus, the proposed interest rate will not affect students' finances during their studies. Together with the comprehensive safety rules of the study support system, this continued low interest rate will be an important part of our generous study funding system. CSN has been tasked with investigating how an interest rate reform can be carried out, highlighting in particular the impact on borrowers. The Government intends to come back to the budget proposal for 2023 with proposals on how such a model may look. Madam President, I would like Finally, Swedish student support is, and will continue to be, one of the world's most generous student support systems. It will continue to be recruiting for both men and women and will continue to level out differences and contribute to social justice. With the government's security reform on conversion study support, people in the middle of their working life will have good financial conditions to be able to saddle up. It increases the security of the individual, and it increases the adaptability of companies and employees in a rapidly changing labour market. Remember the opening voice: My whole future has become much brighter. The education has done and shown me that everything is possible and given me and my life a meaning. Thank you Sweden and thank you CSN! Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want even more people to have a brighter future. We want even more people to discover the possibilities of education so that even more people are given a purpose in life – in our Sweden, with the world's most generous student support. I support the committee's proposal.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1078	Madam President, I would like Member Pia Nilsson talks very nicely about study funding as recruitment, about that more people will have a brighter future and so on. My question is very simple and perhaps not so strange given my own speech and where the Liberals are on the issue of the increased interest rate on the CSN loans. My question is: how does Mr Karlsson Pia this increase in interest rates compatible with the fact that the study aid system should be just recruiting? Does the honourable Member not see that there are some objections to this? I would like to return to what Mr Saco, among others, has said, namely that this raises the thresholds for higher education. This is not something that lowers any thresholds. This should be contrary to the very foundations of social democratic higher education. It is by definition not recruiting when it raises the thresholds for higher education. So the question is: how does this go together, Madam President?
i-26bab3612af8008c-1081	Madam President, I would like And so it was Nilsson my last name, not Karlsson. But this about this. The Government proposes that the interest rate should be increased to 0.5 per cent from the current 0.05 per cent. In the perspective of such a low interest rate, of course, any increase seems very large, but it is thus 0.5 percent. A few years ago the interest rate was 1.16 per cent. So it is extremely low now – 0.05%. We are doing this because we see a link between the study aid system and the labour market. We think it is reasonable at this point to review the interest rate structure of the study aid. The conversion study support is nevertheless a proposal that will benefit everyone – at some point. In the middle of working life, we may need to change. There are also studies, Maria Nilsson, which show that the most recruiting is not what happens when the studies are over, i.e. at the actual refund, but the amount of the grant during the period of study. This has also been indicated by the Government in its budget proposal for 2022 in relation to Category 15. It can therefore be consulted if the honourable Member has not already done so. So from a recruitment perspective, we see no danger. I'd say so. And if there are some who have always been at the forefront of recruitment to the education system, it is the Social Democrats – and the Left Party, I would say. We have significantly increased the number of places of education in adult education and higher education, as well as the number of higher education institutions.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1086	Madam President, I would like I'm so sorry about this last-name slapsus. Looks like it's going around here today. I would like to allow myself a thought experiment, Madam President. Had there been a change of role and a liberal government had raised the interest rate and a Social Democrat in opposition stood in this pulpit, Madam President, there would have been talk of shock. There had been talk of how we trample on those who most need a study aid system. It would have been evening-time headlines. Now this is a small, small increase that will hardly be noticed because we – that is, the Social Democrats, Madam President – are definitely in favour of recruitment. However, this proposal still raises the thresholds for higher education.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1089	Madam President, I would like I do not share Maria Nilsson's view that this will affect recruitment. If it had, we would not have put forward the proposal. It will not affect recruitment, and it is very much because we have increased the grant. We did so in 2018 that we increased the study grant in the study facility by SEK 300 per month, and that has proved to be the most crucial when it comes to recruitment. To pay 0.5 percent interest on a loan that gives you security, that gives you a hold on the labour market and that makes sure that during the time you study you have the overheads paid, I can also think is reasonable. I'd really like to say that. It is also between 40 and 70 SEK more a month.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1091	Madam President, I would like Pia Nilsson talks about how low the interest rate is today and that this will hardly affect the loan debt. But I wonder what that means for the future. If the government's borrowing rate is higher, will the Social Democrats remove this extra increase? I would like to know, Madam President. I would also like to remind you of what I said in my speech: the government borrowing rate has been so high in Sweden that the interest rate on the student loan was so high that the debt increased even though you paid as much as you could. Perhaps they had low income and could not pay so much, and the interest rate made the debt increase very quickly. There were many people who couldn't pay back then, many who ended up with the bailiff and many who when I worked at CSN called and cried over how difficult it was and hardly saw any future because of this study debt that just increased and increased. I repeat my question, which I would like to put to all parties that support raising the student loan rate in addition to the government borrowing cost: what if the interest rate increases? Or is it believed that we will always have almost zero interest rates in Sweden?
i-26bab3612af8008c-1094	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is, of course, impossible to speculate on what the interest rate may be in the coming years, Ilona Szatmari Waldau. But I can still refer to what the interest rate has looked like in the past. Ten years ago the interest rate was 1.9 per cent. In 2014, when we started running the empire with Left Party support, the interest rate was 1.2 percent. Then it has gone down steadily, particularly throughout this ten-year period. So there is nothing at the moment that we can say threatens the low level of interest rates. The current level of 0.05% is, of course, very close to zero. The level at which the increase is intended to land, 0.5%, is still extremely low. For example, if you are going to borrow on the open market, a Swedbank interest rate is significantly higher – 1.48 percent for three months and perhaps 1.3 for a one-year-old, as they say; it is a loan of one year. So this is not just any loan, and even at 0.5% the interest rate is still very low. Then let us add that the state is subsidising the credit losses currently being made on the study funds – there is currently an appropriation in the state budget of EUR 2 billion. You can think about the reasonableness of that. Now we know that the government has given CSN the task of reviewing this and that it is starting to have an effect. The credit losses are slightly decreasing, and it feels positive. But it's still low interest.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1098	Madam President, I would like The problem with the interest rate on the student loan is that there will also be interest on interest if you do not even have the opportunity to pay the interest in the years you pay back. This applies, for example, to people who have very low incomes – those who have not studied the professions with great prospects to which Pia Nilsson referred, those who, for various reasons, do not get the jobs they want or those who have studied not for profession but to improve themselves. These people can, because of the suspension and reduction, receive a fee which means that they do not even pay on the loan itself, but only on the interest rate, and that is what I think we must avoid. For we cannot know what the interest rate will be in the future. The question is therefore still: if the interest rate increases, will this additional interest rate be removed?
i-26bab3612af8008c-1101	Madam President, I would like I think we should focus on what it means in general with 0.5 percent interest on student loans. This will help to give 44 000 people a year the opportunity to change in the middle of their working life, with a reasonably good income every month – 80% of their previous salary. We must not forget that. What is happening now, with the government's proposal, is that the revenue from this rise in interest rates – where interest rates are at modest 0.5% – is part-financing a reform that can cost up to 9 billion a year. So it is mostly other money that is to raise and finance the entire conversion study aid. Nevertheless, I think it is reasonable for us to take this part-financing by raising the interest rate on student aid to 0.5. It is still the second lowest interest rate on these loans in the last ten years.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1103	Madam President, I would like The very question of the interest rate has been a hot potato, and many students have heard from them about this. The Moderates are of course very positive about the conversion study support, but what we have seen as a major concern is that they say that the interest rate should also apply retroactively – i.e. for loans already taken out. We see this as a major concern, that is, those who took out the loans did not actually know about these changes. We think that this is the big question now, which is why it should apply retroactively so that loans already taken out also get this increase in interest rates.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1105	Madam President, I would like One can surely ask the question why this is happening, but somewhere it still makes the 0.5% interest rate give the revenue that the state needs. It's actually a little hard to calculate, but it's going to land somewhere just under 2 billion. This is a way to give the entire student funds collective a reasonable cost once you have to pay your student loan, and as I have described earlier, the reasonableness is somewhere between 40 and 70 SEK per month. The government and we Social Democrats make the assessment that it is reasonable.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1107	Madam President, I would like When we got our new old Minister of Education Anna Ekström was almost the first question how she put herself to this, and she said a little vaguely that she should review the question. I'm very curious about what that will mean. I am sure Mr Nilsson knows this better than I know, but I hope that there will be a reasonable answer to the question.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1108	Madam President, I would like It is CSN who has been given the task to look at this, and it will be reported on April 15 next year. Then one should really highlight this from the borrower's perspective in order to be able to do it as well as possible for the borrower. Before that investigation is completed, it is difficult to express an opinion, but once the investigation arrives, the Government's ambition is to present a proposal for the 2023 budget bill.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1109	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I think we have a fantastic study aid system in Sweden. It is something that we should be immensely proud of, and it is actually quite unique. Student support makes studies possible. I read something that CSN, the Central Student Support Board, wrote. They wrote that they want to see a society where a welder can become prime minister and where study money is a given. That, of course, sounds like something very positive. Another thing that CSN wrote is that a 2020 survey shows that three quarters of those who study at higher education and have student funds manage their finances and that they can even save some money every month. It also sounds fantastic – we have a unique system. Then I may have to inform my son that he will have money left when he is studying with study funds, but that is a completely different matter. We Moderates like evaluations and goal fulfilment; we always remind our colleagues of that. That is why I am pleased that there is a high level of compliance with the criteria for our student grants. There is a high level of achievement in terms of the recruitment effect of student aid, in terms of the smoothing effect of student aid and in terms of the impact of student aid on the national economy. This is also very positive, which I think is very good. So we like follow-up, and we like it when the goal fulfillment looks like it should. As has been said here before, the number of students has increased. The number has increased among both women and men and among unskilled social groups. Of course, it can be caused by the pandemic, and we know that it does – many more read, and many more take loans. It can also be seen that there are many additional loans, which indicates that older people – with different conditions – are reading. It is also the case that society is changing all the time, which means that one will study further up in the ages. We also know that many people now want to be able to study abroad – perhaps even more than before. Right now it's a little troubling, but that's obviously going to change. Many more people also want to study higher up in their age, and then you may have children and family and need completely different support. Many will also read later in life, perhaps studying a new education, in order to keep their job or get a new one. When it comes to good effects on the national economy, which we think it is good that there is high achievement of goals, it is of course important that you get a job after your studies – but also that you should be able to pay back the loans, which has been discussed a little earlier. CSN works a lot to get all the loans back. People are also looking for those who live abroad and who unfortunately have not been very good at paying back the loans, so now you get much more of them back. It's important, because it's a lot of millions. I have told you before that I have now paid off all my student loans, which I am very happy for after 30 years with CSN. When I paid my last fee, they received a digital diploma from CSN saying: Thank you for having repaid your student loans – now you give others the chance to study with student grants. I think it is very nice, and it is also this that goes without saying: that we should be able to help others. I therefore know that CSN is working a lot on repayment, but they are also working on incorrect payments and on the organised cheating that is unfortunately going on. It is incredibly important that students should be entitled to student loans but that it is done in the right way. We think, of course, that it is very good to be careful about this, because it is still about state money. Now that we have more and more elderly students and different student support systems, there will be more individual assessments of who receives student loans. That, of course, requires more of the administrators. We think it is good that it is individual, but it will be more and more demanding. It is therefore necessary to look at how to make the various new loans as simple as possible. Pia Nilsson from the Social Democrats was so proud when she said that you can now finally study higher up in the ages – you can have loans up to 60 years and get more study weeks. I think this is great. I just want to say that the Moderates have been running this for many years, and at last the government agreed to it. I thank you for that; it was a long fight. One should never give up – in the end, it can become wisdom even among several other parties, which I of course think is very positive! I'm moving on to the student support system. We have talked about interest rates, and I still think it is an issue that hangs in the air. Higher interest rates are one of the proposals. I know that this has not yet been decided in Parliament, but, as Pia Nilsson said, it is so far only one proposal that has come. It will be decided in Parliament next year. Raising interest rates may be one thing, but the fact that it happens retroactively is something that we from the Moderates find uncomfortable. You should be able to know what applies when you take out a loan and not be able to get a retroactive change. We will closely monitor how this new system will be financed and do so properly. Of course, we'll be watching what this is going to be like. We are, of course, behind the budgets of Moderates, KDs and SDs. Finally, I would like to wish Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to the entire chamber office and to my colleagues. I would like to thank you for our cooperation in the Committee on Education, which is usually positive, although we do not always agree. I just think it's funny that we're not!
i-26bab3612af8008c-1126	Madam President, I would like Like so many others, I would like to start by thanking you for this calendar year and wish the other members of the Education Committee and the office staff as well as the Presidents and all Parliament officials a really happy Christmas and a happy new year. I would like to continue by doing something as unusual as calling for the proposal in the report to be approved, which in this case also means approval of the joint draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. As has been mentioned several times in the debate, the Government's proposal for the conversion study grant, which aims to improve the conditions for adult individuals to finance studies even later in life. We are still waiting for the precise explanation of how the reform will be designed – we now heard that it will come in the spring of 2022 – but on the basis of what we know today, we from the Swedish Democrats are generally in favour of the introduction of such support. Provided that nothing changes, the new conversion study grant allows professionals to study for up to 44 weeks. The individual should thus be able to take the initiative for his/her skills development and transition in order to strengthen his/her position in the labour market. What we are far more sceptical about, however, is how this aid is to be financed. It is somewhat reminiscent of what both the Left Party and the Liberals have said. On the table is currently a proposal to significantly raise the CSN rate – from the current 0.05% to 0.5 percent. In practice, this means an increase of 1 000 %. As mentioned earlier, the protests have not been waiting for a number of different directions and referrals. Here, the Swedish Democrats believe that the government needs to review the possibilities for alternative ways of financing this reform. Repayments of student loans and debts from abroad have generally increased, but they are very different from region to region and from country to country. Although it looks very good in the last row, it may be that the repayments have increased from Germany, for example, while they have decreased from another country, such as Afghanistan. This is something that Swedish Radio has specifically reported on. Instead of funding the new conversion study grant through increased CSN rates for well-being students, the government should, for example, review the possibility of foreign student debt being repaid by those students who today go underground and disappear abroad, just as Swedish Radio has reported. This is an example of holes that can be clogged and how funds can then be redistributed. The priority should be such that the new conversion study aid can be introduced without entailing an excessive increase in interest rates for our students, and 1 000 % we think is quite a lot. In the field of student support, there are several interesting suggestions from several different parties. I look forward to debating them when they come up for discussion in 2022. Today, however, it only applies to the budget for Category 15 and, as I said, I am in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-26bab3612af8008c-1134	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most generous study funding systems. It is something that we should really protect, because it has led to that we also have one of the world's most educated people. We have a high level of education, a high proportion of researchers and a prominent position as a formation nation. Madam President, I would like I would like to start with a few words from my party colleague Mats Berglund. These are words that he has spoken in this House in the past and which I think sums up the Green Party's policies in the field of higher education and work well. The words he said were: The Green Party has always – or at least for as long as I can remember – pushed the issue of lifelong learning. It is about the ability to change direction in life, to gas and slow down in working life, to further train, to change careers, to break patterns and to try new ones. It is about the possibility of being curious and being allowed to be. ..................................................... A changing labour market requires a study system that gives people good opportunities to change in the middle of life and either retrain or train themselves to a whole new profession. It is important that we have a system that enables and encourages lifelong learning. The Green Party has pushed for this kind of opportunity. During our time in the government, we have been involved in raising the upper age limit for entitlement to study funding by four years – from 56 to 60 years. We are getting older, and the elderly are getting healthier. The retirement age is rising, and working life is also getting longer. Our study aid system should of course keep up with this development. We need to supplement this with more weeks for those who have studied for a long time in life and spent their permitted twelve semesters, or six years, for an education – perhaps a medical education. Although this is a generous system, with a grant component and a loan component, which will open up opportunities for a lot of people to educate themselves or further train themselves late in life, the levels may, after all, be a little too low for it to be attractive enough for those who for many years have worked and had an income from work. There, the Green Party's proposal on development time would have been an important complement. This was not the case, but instead the social partners have agreed on a new conversion study support. It serves the same purpose but is actually better. The Green Party is very much in favour of the proposal for a new conversion study grant from 2023. It will provide much better opportunities to study further and change the profession in the middle of working life. The conversion study support also helps us to have – and get – a resilient society. During our time in the government, we have also seen an increase in the study grant of SEK 300 and an opportunity for students with special reasons to sign up for part-time sick leave. We believe that the person who chooses to continue studying must also be able to feel financial security. We therefore want all students to be covered by unemployment insurance and health insurance on the same terms as those who work. Madam President, I would like The assignments of the teachers for lifelong learning are now laid down in the Higher Education Act, which the Environmental Party thinks is very good. Traditionally, our system, if I may put it a little careless, has been based on learning a profession and then working in that profession until you retire. But, Madam President, times are changing, and so do we. Instead of an education when we are young and then a long working life, learning will be continuous and continuous throughout our lives. We are faced with a change in working life where not only work at the factory is automated but also various tasks within the official professions. The development of artificial intelligence, for example, involves a change in tasks. Some tasks disappear, some tasks mean that you need to learn to work with digitalisation and some tasks become completely new. In order for as many as possible to become winners and feel involved, it is necessary to think new and to create the conditions for everyone to change completely or further educate themselves. Other changes that also create change are climate change, energy transition and internationalisation. For us in the Green Party, these are important foundations that drive change and modernisation of vision and also the conditions for education and work in a changing world. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by wishing you, your Presidents' colleagues, the entire office and also all of you on the Education Committee a really merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
