i-8982415ab265ab4d-0	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! A human, a voice. Everyone's equal right to be in charge of the society we live in. It is society's most basic expression of equality between people. This year, that court is 100 years old. In 1921, women and men in Sweden had to vote for the first time in general and equal elections to the Riksdag. That right is not once and for all given. It must be won over and over again for every new generation. In ten months, it will be time for the day of democracy. Then the Swedish people go to elections. Let us jointly convince another generation of voters of the importance of using their democratic voice. All public power emanates from the people. The Swedish National Board is based on free opinion formation and on universal and equal voting rights. ..................................................... Public power must be exercised with respect for the equal value of all human beings and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. ..................................................... This is how it is written in our country's constitution, and on the same rock-solid democratic basis Sweden will stand for the 100 years that follow.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-6	Mr President, I would like to The government's policy in the coming years will be marked by strong action against three serious societal problems. Firstly, to reverse every stone in order to reduce segregation and combat the ruthless crime that today threatens the whole community. Secondly, to drive the green industrial revolution with investment throughout the country. That's how emissions are reduced, and that's how the jobs of the future end up in Sweden. Thirdly, to take back control of welfare, so that all employees have the necessary conditions so that they can do their job and so that we can ensure that school, care and care are of high quality throughout our country. And out of respect for everyone who works and for those who built up our country, we will have secure social security and pensions. Sweden should move forward, step by step and reform for Sweden can better.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-11	Mr President, I would like to Until November this year, 290 shootings have taken place in our country. It has cost 42 people their lives, many of them young boys, children. And shootings in gang conflicts are not isolated cases; it is organised, and it is founded in a society with too large gaps and differences in living conditions: economic, linguistic and normative. The gross violence is a poison that threatens our entire community, and it undermines trust between people and undermines faith in the future. This makes people in our country victims, victims and mourners. There are residential areas in Sweden that are characterised by overcrowding and a black housing market where organised crime acts as landlord, bank and employer. There the justice system is pushed away, and gangs create their own rules of the game where children are recruited right into the criminal lifestyle where blasts and shootings are everyday. It can't go on like that. Swedish society should be stronger than that. In order to stop the violence, the perpetrators must be prosecuted. Criminal policy is being changed. More than 70 sentences have been tightened up, and some thirty acts that were previously unpunished have been criminalised. A historical expansion of the Swedish judicial system is under way. The target of 10,000 more police workers is well on track to be reached. A major expansion of the prison system is being carried out and the capacity of the courts is being significantly strengthened. Almost every law enforcement agency has been given new tools, more employees and greater powers. Let's move on. The penalties for gang-related crime will be further tightened. The possibility of using secret coercive measures preventively to prevent serious crime is investigated. The punishment for perjury, abuse of justice and the protection of criminals are sharpened. Witnesses should not be threatened with silence but receive the support they need to safely fulfill their duty. It will be easier to arrest persons suspected of serious crimes. The presumption of detention is reduced from today's two years to one year and six months, and anyone who commits more crimes will be punished more severely. The penalty for young people between 18 and 20 who commit serious crimes will be removed and the penalty will better reflect the seriousness of crime even in the case of young people. The law on special provisions for the care of young people is being reviewed, and society must act more resolutely against young people at risk. It will be possible to carry out more efforts even if parents do not agree, and members of gangs and young people at risk will be given greater care and social assistance. A regime of state youth criminality boards similar to the Danish model will be investigated. Violent crimes and the exercise of power by criminals constitute a threat to the popular rooting-up and democratic legitimacy on which our legal system rests. It must be fought with the full force of democratic society.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-21	Mr President, I would like to Every year, some fifteen women are murdered by someone they have or have had a close relationship with. The government has permanent funds and state subsidies to prevent men's violence against women and to protect those exposed. The possibility of strengthening criminal protection also against psychological violence is being reviewed, and the penalties for violence and other violations in close relationships are being tightened. 20 years ago – a year before she was murdered – Fadime She concluded with a call to all of us to see all the girls denied this right in the name of honor. She said: I hope you don't turn your back on them. The attendance in the Swedish Parliament is broad, and the direction of the government is clear. Honorary oppression does not belong in our country. Equality and equality apply equally to all. Honorary oppression is to be removed.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-25	Mr President, I would like to Punishment has been effective. More serious criminals are now serving their sentence. But much broader efforts are needed to break the segregation that leads to poverty and hopelessness and to fatten gang crime. Every minister of the government that is taking office today will be tasked with turning every stone in his area of responsibility and with the support of the relevant authorities in order to stop gang crime and combat segregation. The government will also invite representatives of the municipalities where violence is at its worst and segregation is at its greatest to combat crime together. Many parents, teachers, social secretaries, district police officers, sports associations and dedicated volunteers are today acting counter-forces. They spread hope in the dark. But many more need to stop. We all have to help each other. That is why I would also like to turn to the Swedish people – the whole of the Swedish people. No single person can alone break the segregation or stop the gangs, but everyone can do something. When it is organized night hiking and other activities, be there if you can! Stand up for the sports association, so that there are leisure activities for our young people! Stay and talk for an extra while with those who need to improve their Swedish to get into the community! Let me also call on Sweden's employers: before you bring in low-skilled workers from other countries, please bear in mind that there are many long-term unemployed in Sweden who want nothing but to have their own livelihood! When the whole society mobilizes, we can together build Sweden safely again.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-29	Mr President, I would like to Nothing is as basic as having a job to go to. Nothing is as crucial to becoming part of the community. Those who do not have a job should therefore meet a clear expectation but also many and good opportunities to get into work. If you have come to Sweden as a young person, you should get a upper secondary school degree and move on to work or higher education. If you already have the required professional knowledge, you should learn Swedish as soon as possible and take one of the available vacancies. If you are a little older and lack the right skills, you can start with subsidised employment and help in our society with tasks that are not otherwise carried out. With this focus on employment policy, the government has contributed to creating a quarter of a million new jobs and halved the start-up time for new arrivals. And despite the pandemic and the biggest downturn in the economy since World War II, today a higher share of foreign born compared to 2014. Sweden makes clear demands but also offers opportunities. It works, and on that path we will continue. Everyone who can work is going to work. With a job and a personal income comes the freedom to decide for yourself how to live your life and with whom. It applies equally to everyone, no matter where you come from and regardless of gender.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-33	Integration will be improved on a solid knowledge base, so studies will be added on clearer activity requirements for a certain number of hours a week for those receiving financial assistance, on requirements for language knowledge and knowledge of Sweden in order to obtain a permanent residence permit and on the possibility of introducing a state reception centre where asylum seekers will live and participate in social inclusion during the very first time in Sweden. The quality of Swedish for immigrants should be increased. The school inspectorate will review organisers. More adults should be able to combine vocational education and Swedish studies to get to work faster. New start jobs are being reinforced. Establishment jobs are introduced. And labour law is reformed in accordance with the agreement reached by the parties. Sweden's entrepreneurs create jobs and contribute to our country's prosperity. It should be easy to start and run companies in Sweden. It should also be easy to get a place of education. The knowledge boost creates tens of thousands of roads that lead to work around the country. The university of applied sciences, regional vocational adult and folk high school are now being expanded with more places of study. Health education is being expanded both at higher education institutions and at a distance. And health care will be better able to develop the required places of activity. Sweden already has one of the world's most comprehensive student support systems. A rapidly changing labour market places higher demands on further education, so now Sweden will also receive one of the world's best conversion study support. With the implementation of the Partnership Agreement, our competitiveness is now being strengthened and workers are being given security in transition.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-37	Mr President, I would like to We're keeping the 1.5-degree target alive, but the pulse is very low. That is how Mr Sharma, the president of the climate summit, summed up the results of Glasgow. The clock is ticking. If the world fails to cope with the climate crisis, the consequences will be incalculable. The ambition must be raised. Pulse has to be up. The world must succeed. With the green folk home Sweden chose to go ahead. Our confidence in the world around us is strengthened when Swedish innovations and solutions are now exported worldwide. A global climate race is taking place here, and Sweden is running in the leadership. The industrial and climate life indicated the direction, and they will develop. More than 300 000 new homes have been built since 2014, and sustainable construction is being promoted. As Sweden is now investing its way out of the post-pandemic recession, this is done through a powerful green restart of the Swedish economy. Right now, a green industrial revolution is taking place throughout our country – fossil-free steel production, battery factories, electric heavy trucks. It reduces emissions and provides thousands of jobs throughout the country. Now the pace will increase further. However, the necessary investments risk not being made because the market thinks they are too risky. But Swedish industry will be able to phase out fossil fuels, and green credit guarantees will be expanded to SEK 50 billion next year. Sweden currently has an innovative and competitive business sector. We have a skilled workforce ready to switch to the jobs that are now emerging. The government is therefore proposing a new state-funded competence boost for the business sector's climate change transition. A new national electrification strategy will identify how electricity grid capacity can be rapidly and efficiently expanded and how electricity generation with clean, renewable and cheap energy sources can greatly increase. The development of offshore wind energy is an important part of this. There should be good conditions to live, live and work throughout the country. The ambitions of regional policy are being raised. A strong commitment is being made to the rural development programme for a competitive and environmentally sustainable agriculture. Investment in broadband is greatly increased. Clear requirements are placed on the level of coverage of operators and the specific operating aid to grocery stores is permanent. Beach protection will be more differentiated. It will be easier to build in the countryside while strengthening the beach protection in high-exploited areas. Areas of particular importance for animal and plant life are protected. Ownership in the forest will be strengthened. This is the basis for increasing the potential of forests for the economy, climate and environment. A new national infrastructure plan will be presented in spring. New steps are being taken towards a modern, fossil-free transport infrastructure so that people can move both themselves and the goods that are increasingly produced in our country. Next year, Sweden will host the UN meeting Stockholm+50 to speed up the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in Agenda 2030. This is in the light of the fact that the UN's very first environmental conference was held here in Stockholm. When Olof Palme welcomed the world's leaders, he stated with words that are equally topical today: The future is common. In community, we have to share it. Together we can create it.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-48	Mr President, I would like to The general well-being is to be strengthened. It's the strongest redistributive force we have. That is why it must not be broken. But if it was something that became clear during the pandemic it was that the welfare has shortcomings. The Swedish welfare is supported by the employees. They need more colleagues, the right education and a better working environment. The behavior is great, but not impossible. Important steps have been taken. In recent years, the government has gradually contributed more money to municipalities and regions. Compared to 2014, 100 000 more people currently work in welfare. Now the children of the great 90th century are also to be educated. The many 40's go into their 80's and should of course have the safe care of the elderly they deserve. Therefore, general state subsidies are further increased. Cancer care, psychiatry and maternity care should be given priority when healthcare is expanded. Queues should be shortened, health centres strengthened and more people should have a permanent contact with a doctor. Work on developing a new age care law for improved quality and equivalence of care continues. The right of all home carers to a permanent care contact is laid down by law. Those working in care for the elderly are given the opportunity to study as a nurse on paid working hours, and a recovery bonus has been introduced for opportunities for better working conditions. The work on safe pensions is about respect for those who have been involved in building up our country. The pension has been increased for those who have worked a long working life with low pay. The housing allowance is now being increased further. A structural reform to strengthen the income of the most deprived pensioners in the long term is to be presented. This means up to SEK 1 000 more in your wallet every month. A security pension is introduced so that those over 60 years of age who are worn out do not have to take out their old-age pension early. However, pensions need to be increased further. Therefore, contributions to the pension system must be increased. Initiatives will be taken in the Pensions Group. When you need society most, the strong society should be there for you. The government has previously removed the permanent tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. Now the tax is also significantly reduced for people with sickness and activity benefits. The focus is clear. The tax gap between disabled people and employees is unjust. The guarantee allowance in the sickness and activity allowance is increased. The government continues to strengthen the right to personal assistance. Those who fall ill should have support to get back to work quickly. An extensive effort is being made to strengthen the safety of illness. The ceiling of the sickness allowance is raised. Proposals from the Health Insurance Investigation are implemented to provide more time for rehabilitation and increased flexibility for older people, needs employees and part-time sick leave. Municipal schools take greater responsibility for the whole than free schools. Then they should also have enough resources to do so. Tax money for the school is going to school. Elevantage to the school should be done fairly, with equal chances and the same opportunities. Reform for reform, step by step, can build prosperity stronger and more equal, now and in the future. In exactly the same way, it can be dismantled, step by step, reform for reform. Political will determines. It is possible to take back democratic control of welfare. Let's do it!
i-8982415ab265ab4d-59	Mr President, I would like to When the pandemic struck our country, we gathered across party boundaries to protect our population and Swedish jobs. Allow me to thank those parliamentary parties who have cooperated constructively and in a solution-oriented manner with the government during their term of office, not least the Center Party and the Liberals for their cooperation on economic policy. Pandemine's not over. A global and fair vaccine supply must be ensured. New mutations of the virus worry. A number of countries in the world and in Europe are now having a negative development. The spread of infection is beginning to increase in Sweden as well, and the government is preparing for a worsening situation. The single most important thing now is that vaccination continues with full force. All over 18 years of age will be offered a third dose. Now the groups must be reached where few are vaccinated. There are major differences between the regions. The methods that work best to reach as many people as possible must be disseminated. I would therefore urge the regions to learn from each other. I would also urge everyone in Sweden to vaccinate. We do it for ourselves, but we do it for each other. Sweden must be well prepared. The Pandemic Act has been extended. The government is prepared to take the necessary measures in the fight against the virus and will shortly present a new action plan. Further measures will be needed to keep distance in public environments. Vaccine certificates at certain public gatherings and public events will be introduced on 1 December and a proposal for vaccine certificates will be referred to restaurants and gyms. The CDS legislation is reviewed so that new legislation is in place for future pandemics. New emergency laws are being investigated. I will also make organizational changes in the Government Office. The Crisis Management Office, which has previously sorted under the Ministry of Justice, is transferred to the Council of State Committee. Thanks to responsible fiscal policy, Sweden was able to face the pandemic with the lowest public debt since 1977. The unemployment rate is now back at the level of the pandemic, and although Sweden has invested hundreds of billions in crisis measures to save jobs and companies during the pandemic, public finances remain strong – so strong that it is justified to switch from surplus to balance-sheet targets. Culture has a key role to play in re-launching society. Culture brings us people outside of ourselves and closer to each other. A free and independent cultural sector is fundamental to any successful democratic society. Support for theatres, museums, visual and design activities, libraries, cinema, orchestras, concert halls and dance activities is strengthened throughout the country.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-66	Throughout the country we will also have a diversity of independent media and a strong public service. Rapid technological and media developments revolutionise access to information but risk increasing gaps and polarising society. The amount of funding allocated to sport is greatly increased in order to increase participation, particularly among children and young people and persons with disabilities. The culture of our national minorities and the right to their languages are strengthened, and the protection of the law against discrimination is strengthened. After the turn of the year, the Institute for Human Rights is established in Lund to promote and defend human rights at national level. Racism, hate crime and intolerance do not belong in Sweden.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-69	Activities that counteract or prevent racism receive increased support. In March, Sweden will take over the chairman's club of the International Alliance for the Remembrance of the Holocaust, and this summer, Sweden's museum of the Holocaust will open the gates. Mr President, I would like to Swedish foreign policy must safeguard Sweden's self-determination, Sweden's democracy and the security of the Swedish people. Promoting peace and development is in Sweden's immediate interest and benefits the world around us. It is therefore in Sweden's interest to affirm collaboration and dialogue between countries and stand up for an international legal order. In particular, four areas should be highlighted. Firstly, cooperation should be strengthened in our immediate vicinity – in the Nordic countries and in the EU. In our history, the separation of the population of the Nordic countries with border barriers is a foreign phenomenon. Free movement between the Nordic countries needs to be restored as soon as possible. Nordic cooperation is deepened and broadened, with particular emphasis on joint management of crises. The Nordic and Baltic countries will take the lead in Europe and together form one of the world's most integrated, sustainable and digitised areas. European cooperation is crucial for Sweden. It is about jobs, because Europe is our most important market. It is about peace and security, both in our neighbourhood and further away. But it is not just that: climate, migration, vaccines and the fight against cross-border and organised crime – all of this is better dealt with in cooperation with others. EU cooperation is based on common values. EU countries that do not respect human rights and democratic principles such as independent courts, a free academy and free media should not necessarily benefit from EU funds. I want to see an open and more equal Europe, with better working conditions and greater equality. However, the Swedish labour market model and our forestry should not be regulated in detail in Brussels.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-77	Secondly, Sweden's security policy line is solid. The military freedom of alliance serves our country well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. Sweden shall not seek membership of NATO. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes us or another country in the Nordic countries or in the EU, and we expect these countries to act in the same way if we are affected ourselves. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. Our current Presidency of the OSSE gives Sweden the opportunity to safeguard the European security regime. Sweden and the EU condemn Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, including the illegal annexation of Crimea. The situation of the people trapped on the border between Poland and Belarus is unacceptable. Belarus' actions will be met with increased sanctions. Thirdly, Sweden's security and development are best secured together with others. The greatest challenges of our time – the climate, the pandemic, the protection of democracy – are best addressed through multilateral cooperation, based on international law and the UN Charter. It is to be welcomed that the United States is once again a constructive partner on these issues. The transatlantic relationship is central to Sweden's and Europe's security and prosperity. Today's conflicts require the commitment of the outside world. A long-term peace between Israel and Palestine presupposes a two-state solution. In Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Yemen and Mali, difficult conflicts continue to plague the populations. Reducing the humanitarian consequences of wars and the long-term resolution of conflicts requires regional and international cooperation. Our assistance is intended to increase the prevention and management of climate change. The focus of development work on democracy continues, as does the work to strengthen women's and girls' rights. The pandemic has led to an additional 70 million people being placed in extreme poverty. Swedish aid must correspond to 1 per cent of gross national income.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-84	Fourthly, Sweden will be equipped to face the great geopolitical, technological and economic shifts of our time. Society's capacity to deal with crises should be strong, both in peacetime and at war. Sweden deepens its defence cooperation with Finland and other Nordic neighbours, within the EU, with the USA and in its partnership with NATO. Our national defenses are being expanded. Five regiments and a raft are being re-established right now: in Falun, Sollefteå/ Östersund, Arvidsjaur, Kristinehamn, Gothenburg and Uppsala. Civil defense will be strengthened. A new, updated national security strategy is being developed. Sweden continues to be a strong voice for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. China's growing role is another of the greatest global changes of our time. Sweden and the EU will pursue an active policy in relation to China, based on our interests and values. A new migration legislation has entered into force in Sweden. It is well balanced in order for Swedish asylum policy to be sustainable in the long term with a humane, legally secure and effective regulatory framework that does not differ significantly from that of other EU countries. Mr President, honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament. I began by talking about Swedish democracy and 100 years of universal and equal suffrage. And democracy – it is we: we who live in Sweden, we who work and live here, we who raise new generations. We should keep that in mind when we meet each other in everyday life. I want us to meet each other with respect, because it is we – all together – who are supporting Sweden. Maybe we're at the health center, prepared with the syringes, grazing one by one in the vaccine queue. Maybe we'll come up with fun rams about hats and mitts to reduce the turbulence in the preschool cloakroom now that it's getting cold. We may have it hectic in the shop right now, because people tend to think of changing to winter tires at the last second. We are all involved in contributing to the Sweden we love. And there are many of us who make an effort for democracy, on the coffee break, at the booking board in the laundry room, in the building fut, often without us thinking about it. When we say no. When we demand respect. For ourselves, for our colleagues or for an unknown fellow human being who is being unfairly treated. I rely on others to do the same for us. We should not have one Sweden where one group looks down on another. The right to vote in 1921 was not the end of the construction of democracy; it was the start. The struggle for democracy, for human dignity and respect, for the power of all people to influence their everyday lives and our common society—it never ends. We will take that fight with us for the remainder of this parliamentary year, when we take a strong stand against crime, sprint in the climate change and regain control of welfare. We are all taking this fight with us into the election movement next year and on into new decades. Everyone has a responsibility, and everyone's efforts are needed. The Sweden that we build together, in respect for each other, is a stronger Sweden.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-96	Mr President, I would like to Finally, allow me to report the ministers who, together with me, form part of the government.
i-8982415ab265ab4d-97	Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Justice is Morgan Johansson. Minister of Justice in the Ministry of Justice is also Anders Ygeman. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is Ann Linde. Minister of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also Anna Hallberg and Matilda Ernkrans. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Defence is Peter Hultqvist. Minister and Head of the Ministry of Social Affairs is Lena Hallengren. Minister of Social Affairs is also Ardalan Shekarabi. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Finance is Mikael Damberg. Minister of Finance is also Max Elger and Ida Karkiainen. Minister and Head of the Ministry of Education is Anna Ekström. Minister of Education is also Lina Axelsson Kihlbom. Minister and Head of the Ministry of the Environment is Annika Strandhäll. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Enterprise is Karl-Karl-Petter Thorwaldsson. Minister of State in the Ministry of Industry is AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg.
i-FQbkuEs49e7hHfADhpbT3f	Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Labour is Eva Nordmark. Prime Minister of the Ministry of Labour is also Johan Danielsson. Prime Minister and Head of the Department of Infrastructure is Tomas Eneroth. Minister of Infrastructure is also Khashayar Farmanbar. The Parliament will be informed in the usual way of the changes in the ministry.
