i-e0cce420c1318d5e-1	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to work towards introducing new measures or instruments to strengthen environmental considerations within our industries to prevent increased use of biofuels further hampering our ability to achieve our national environmental quality objectives. Jens Holm has also asked me whether I intend to take measures to make the greenhouse gas emissions from biofuels clearer. Let me begin by stating that climate change is to be implemented in a way that does not jeopardise the ability to achieve the other global goals of sustainable development. The 2030 Agenda and the global Sustainable Development Goals highlight the need for an integrated climate and environmental policy to achieve the objectives. We will achieve both the environmental quality targets as well as the milestones in the climate framework and the long-term target of net zero emissions in 2045. The Government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved, either through formal protection or voluntary provisions, and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. Forest policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. It is possible and desirable to develop both of these elements. In order to be able to carry out the climate transition while at the same time achieving our environmental quality goals, the Government has taken several measures. Bonus – Malus system steers towards fuel-efficient vehicles or clean electric vehicles. The climate premium for heavy-duty vehicles and machines contributes to their accelerated electrification, and energy taxes are moving towards increased energy efficiency. Appropriations for the protection of biologically valuable forests have been greatly strengthened. The Government has also developed a strategy and action plan for a circular economy that shows the way towards a resource efficient society where we achieve the environmental and climate goals. The strategy will be complemented by a bioeconomy strategy – work on it has started. The bioeconomy strategy is developed in cooperation with the green industries and will contribute to increased access to biomass, to employment throughout the country and to creating environmental and climate benefits. Sustainable biomass, including from forests, agriculture and the fishing industry, can contribute to the substitution of fossil energy and fossil materials. In order to ensure the availability of long-term sustainable forest raw materials for the growing circular bioeconomy, incentives need to be created for sustainable forest management and sustainable forest protection so that Sweden achieves relevant national and international biodiversity commitments. The reduction obligation increases the use of biofuels in the transport sector, and the demand for biomass is predicted to increase in several sectors in the future, while measures for energy efficiency or waste heat recovery can release resources from the heating sector. The bioeconomy needs to be based on the efficient use of resources, where the forest resource can be used most effectively for a sustainable society within the framework set by environmental, climate and societal objectives. The Government has decided on 29 April 2021 on a proposal that introduces the sustainability criteria agreed by the EU to ensure that only sustainable biofuels, such as those that do not contribute to deforestation, are used in the energy sector. Today, residues from the Swedish forestry industry are primarily used to replace fossil fuels. As regards Jens Holm's question about the accounting of emissions from biofuels, it is not true that these are not accounted for. Emissions of biogenic carbon dioxide from biomass combustion are already included in the LULUCF sector climate statistics in the country where the biomass has been produced. For this reason, biogenic CO2 emissions from biofuel combustion are not reported. Doing so would mean double counting. Sweden closely follows the guidelines of the UNFCCC, the IPCC recommendations and the EU's regulatory framework for reporting emissions.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-11	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. One can see that there is a common thread in the government's environmental and climate policy, namely biofuels. Biofuel should solve most of the government's climate commitment. Biofuel in itself does not need to be wrong. We have large quantities of residues from forestry and agriculture, which can be used. We can also use waste from our households and restaurants to produce biogas, for example. But when you anticipate the use of biofuels as much as the government does, it becomes a problem. Then you need answers to where the biofuel is to be taken. Let me take a few examples. The government has now put forward the proposal for a reduction obligation for flights. This means compulsory incorporation of biofuels into aviation fuel. Similarly, there is also a reduction obligation for road transport. The industry has presented a large number of fossil-free roadmaps within the framework of the Government's proposal on fossil-free trade. Overall, these proposals represent a significant increase in biofuels. There are different reports. Sweco came up with a report a while ago, where they pointed to an 86% increase. The report presented by the Biojet study talked about an increase in the use of biofuels by 55 terawatt hours; it is more than twice as much as the amount of biofuels used today. In connection with the work on a new national infrastructure plan, Trafikverket says to the Government that the demand for biofuels will increase by 70 per cent by 2030. How, Per Bolund, can this be produced in a sustainable way? I can't see it can be done. That is why we in the Left Party think it is so important that the government makes concrete proposals on how to strengthen environmental concerns in forestry. Otherwise, as we are seeing today, the risk is obvious that we will continue to have large-scale calcareous fellings. I do not agree with Per Bolund when he says that environmental considerations and production interests are equal in Swedish forestry. I would like to ask the environmental party Per Bolund: Does the Minister for the Environment really think that the environment and production weigh equally heavily in Swedish forestry? Right now we see that there are battles going on in northern Sweden, where state Sveaskog wants to harvest forests with high natural values. It's about Arjeplog, Gällivare, Pajala and so on, where Sami and environmentalists get in the way of the forest machines that are going to fell. It is our state forest company that is doing this. It is quite clear that we do not take sufficient environmental considerations into account in forestry. I would also like to ask the Minister for the Environment whether he shares my view of the strong increase in demand that the government's biofuels policy will lead to. I want to know where all this biofuels are going to be taken. And how can it be produced in a sustainable way so that no more forest is cut down in Sweden and other countries to make room for increased production of biofuels?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-20	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question, which is important. It is not true as Jens Holm says that we think biofuels should solve most or all of it. On the contrary, we have a lot of different tools that we work with, and it seems Jens Holm has missed – for example that Sweden is around place three in the world when it comes to the introduction of electric vehicles. If you drive vehicles on electricity, it is clear that the need for liquid fuels, whether fossil or bio-based, is reduced. We also have a lot of work to do to reduce dependence on transport and demand for transport, thereby also reducing the need for energy for the transport sector. It is therefore important to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. The government has. I hope that the Left Party will also try to pursue this. Jens Holm makes it easy. He should be as easily aware as I am that we already have 5 million cars on our roads, which are very much dependent on fossil fuels. At the same time, we have set ourselves very ambitious targets. We will reduce emissions from the transport sector by 70% by 2030. We will also have zero net emissions in 2045. Somewhere else the opposition must also have an idea or a plan for how it should work out. I have not heard the Left Party come up with a proposal on how to do it. Are you going to tell people to stop using the cars that are rolling in the streets today? Is that the Left Party's solution? Then I do not think it will succeed very well. A working strategy forward is about just being able to have several different thoughts at the same time and be able to take several different measures at once. Jens Holm also makes a false assumption when he just trots all the different uses on each other, as if they were happening here and now instantaneous and the same everywhere. That's not the case. It can also be easily seen by Jens Holm if he looks at how the different instruments are designed. With regard to, for example, the reduction obligation for road traffic, the introduction of biofuels is quite a fast pace to replace fossil fuels and thus the fossil dependence that Sweden has today, where we import oil from countries that may not always be our best friends. We, as a country, would certainly benefit from greater energy security. On the other hand, with regard to the reduction obligation for air transport, there is a very slow increase at the beginning. That is to say, there will be a very small increase. When other solutions for road transport can then be found – the government is working very hard to increase electrification, so that it can reduce its use – biofuels can be used in the aviation sector instead. Pretending that everyone should use the same fuel at the same time is simply wrong. It will also be something of a relay principle for coping with the changeover. Then Jens Holm forgets that there are counteracting factors. It is not the case that those who use biomass today will have to do so forever. A very large use of biomass in Sweden has been about paper pulp. There we now see, through digitalisation, that the use of paper pulp is decreasing. This also means that the forest industry changes from paper to other types of production. We also have great potential in terms of, for example, being able to use biofuels for heating and electricity production much more efficiently. We have technological development, and we can also reduce dependence through energy efficiency, for example. There, the government is also making great efforts to, for example, renovate rental buildings around Sweden to simply reduce dependence on energy for heating. It also allows the use of biofuels in other parts to be reduced in order to increase the amount where the needs are high, so that we can reduce fossil dependence. I also referred to the legislation, which is clear. The fact that we have two equal goals does not mean that we are present in all parts. It is well known in the work of the government that we need to improve environmental protection in the forest. It is also included in the January agreement. We will increase the protection of valuable forests – we have also done so on a large scale – but we will also make forestry methods more sustainable.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-32	Madam President, I would like I would like to take note of what the Minister for the Environment ended up with, precisely how forestry in itself can become more sustainable. It is not that Per Bolund and the government took office yesterday, but they have now been in charge for more than six years. I have not seen any concrete proposals on how forestry can be carried out in a more sustainable way. Yes, the government protects more forest. That is very good, even if more could be protected. The government has produced a major forest investigation which has now produced a report. The focus there is one-sidedly on strengthening private ownership of forests. There seems to be even more freedom under responsibility, that is, what is the current principle of forestry in Sweden today. Per Bolund will be happy to correct me if I'm wrong. But what concrete measures have been taken to make forestry sustainable in itself? This is a very important issue. Everyone knows that it is the Swedish forest that is to become the major raw material for the greatly increased production of biofuels that is now being forecast, with reduction obligations for aviation and road transport and with the fossil-free road maps for industry, just to name three concrete examples. For example, what does the Minister for the Environment say about the figure of 55 terawatt hours of biofuels by 2030? That's what the Biojet investigation is talking about. It is the combined effect of the two reduction obligations that the government is now pursuing. How much is 55 terawatt hours of biofuels? Today in Sweden we use about 20 terawatt hours of biofuels in the transport sector, so it is more than a doubling of today's use. Today, we are importing most of the substrate into the biofuels we are using today. I ask again: Per Bolund, where will all this biofuels come from? Per Bolund apparently says it should be taken from the district heating sector. There is certainly some potential to streamline, but we should remember that this is a sector that has already made much more efficient, and we want to continue to heat our houses and homes, and we want to continue to have electricity in our sockets in our homes. I don't really get this to go together – that you can take quite as much away from there as Per Bolund seems to be hoping for. I would also like to ask Per Bolund about the environmental and production interests in forestry: does Per Bolund not see what is happening especially in northern Sweden, in Gällivare, Arjeplog and Pajala, and the Sami villages that go out and protest against the major losses planned and already implemented by state-owned Sveaskog? This is done within the framework of current legislation, and I do not see any concrete proposals on how to strengthen environmental protection and how to protect our last forests with high natural values. The Minister for the Environment and the Government must have an answer to this. One issue that I have not even had time to address concerns the accounting of emissions from the production of biofuels. I do not get the whole thing right, because in the answer to me the Minister for the Environment says that this is reported, and that it does not have to be reported because it is biogenic and takes place in Sweden. But my brief and simple question is: can we not make this report and reporting to the UN better and more robust, so that we can clearly see the emissions coming from this sector? Then, in the next step, we can also take measures to reduce these emissions.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-39	Madam President, I would like I noted that I did not receive an answer to my question, which I think is very relevant anyway: how does the Left Party think emissions from the transport sector should be reduced? Or aren't they? Perhaps that is the answer – we are not going to reach the 2030 target of reducing emissions from the road transport sector by 70%. In that case, it is a very relevant answer, and it would be good if Jens Holm could answer that is how the Left Party sees that question. We see that sustainable biofuels have an important role to play in both transport policy and environmental policy in general. Of course it should be sustainable biofuels. We do not intend to use biofuels with poor climate performance or that threaten other environmental objectives. But it is also important that we become better at managing our valuable forests in a sustainable way. There, this government – which I am immensely proud of – has increased the funds to protect valuable forest land copiously compared to previous governments. No government has ever been close to the protection that this government has taken. There are over 1 000 different reserves that have either been extended or newly formed. It is SEK 6 billion that has been spent on protecting valuable nature, which makes a huge difference. It's also a high tempo. Last year it was the year on this page of the millennium that we set aside the most areas in Sweden to protect for the future. The image of nothing happening is purely misleading, I have to say. I get rather annoyed, because it just doesn't add up. Nor is it true that nothing is happening when it comes to reviewing forestry practices. Sveaskog has just come up with a new strategy, which says that it should review its forestry methods and use more nature-based methods, such as clean forestry on larger areas. The forest investigation has, as Jens Holm says, come up with a proposal, but it is just one proposal. There will then be a political discussion on the proposal and how to develop it. There we have the January agreement as a basis, where we also write that we should both protect valuable land, and have more environmentally adapted forestry and that the state should be a forerunner. And that is something for which we are now working intensively. We have also written about a Sveaskog program, which is a way to trade state land for valuable land. So we have many different tools to use even to achieve that goal. However, there is no doubt that the objective of protecting biodiversity is to be achieved. That is something we are working intensively on. Jens Holm likes to throw out various forms of scenarios or forecasts or what different special interests have said about how much we will need and the like. I think it is dangerous to do this, because then you do not get an overall picture that goes together. That is precisely why, in order to get an overall picture, we have now set up a working group to develop a bioeconomy strategy. It is about seeing: What space is there? And how will this valuable resource – biomass, bioenergy – actually be used to make the most of environmental benefits and societal benefits? I hope that Jens Holm can allow that work to continue before drawing too firm conclusions – I think it is unwise to draw too firm conclusions now. One problem with the type of scenarios and projections to which Jens Holm refers is that reality actually changes. For example, the electrification of the transport sector that is now going on is much greater than was assumed in all these forecasts, I believe. This means that you risk landing very wrong. The government is not content to look at just one area of bioenergy. We look widely and make wide-ranging measures to get a sustainable transport system. I am very proud that Sweden is the leader in electrification. This means that we reduce the dependence on liquid fuels, but we are far from finished. Let's continue that work. We are also continuing our efforts to reduce transport demand, for example by resetting the travel allowance so that it becomes modes of transport independent and, instead, distance-based. This will also encourage the transition to more sustainable modes of transport than the car. So we have a broad range of policy developments. I wish the Left Party had too.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-50	Madam President, I would like I can show the Environment Minister the list of 50 concrete proposals from the Left Party, which is the Green Party, because they are in government, have actively opposed and voted against in the field of environment and climate change. I am not going to make this a party political pie throw, but whenever Per Bolund wishes, I will show him that list. The Left Party has very concrete proposals for how we can speed up the environmental and climate work in Sweden. As far as the transport sector is concerned, for example, the Minister for the Environment seems to expect us to travel as much as we do now, or perhaps more, in the future. But we have to build a transport-efficient society. That's what it's all about. Some transports are simply to be made less of. We can shut down large parts of domestic aviation, for example. Much of the commuting back and forth we will not have to do if we invest more in digitalisation. If we invest more in public transport, people can travel more collectively after the pandemic. If we expand the bike infrastructure, people can take the bike instead of the car to work and so on. In all these areas, the Left Party has put forward concrete proposals. At Per Bolund it sounds like the government wants to continue to investigate and continue to develop new strategies, ambitions etc. But it is concrete action here and now that applies. It was the government that gave the instructions to the Forest Investigation. And it is one-sidedly focused on strengthening private ownership, not on developing more sustainable forestry. Per Bolund says that I refer to specific interests in terms of forecasts of future use of biofuels. It is about the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and increased use by 70 per cent by 2030. It was Maria Wetterstrand, a former environmental party, who led the Biojet investigation. 55 terawatt hours of biofuels will need to be used. Where are all these biofuels going to come from? Now Per Bolund has the last chance to answer.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-56	Madam President, I would like It is sad when the last post goes to distort the message that I have been very clear about here today. We do not believe that biofuels are the only solution. I hope Jens Holm has heard that, because I have said that very many times. I'll tell you one more time. We think it's a tool, but it's far from the only thing. I told you about quite a few of the measures we do, not least electrification, which is now going faster than any of the investigations to which Jens Holm has referred. I also spoke about all the measures we are taking to reduce precisely transport demand and create a transport-efficient society. The difference between the Left Party and the Green Party is that we do it in reality. What we are actually doing is having an effect here and now, and that is what is needed. It needs to move forward here and now. It is not enough to sit in the gallery and make proud plans, but it is also necessary to get involved in politics and have an impact on their policies. That's what we're doing. We have made investments such as the Climate and Industrial Klivet. We have the urban environment agreements, which steer towards public transport and cycling. We have sustainable consumption, where we work intensively. We work to better preserve meadows and pastures and to improve water supply. All these measures contribute to achieving the climate and environmental objectives we have set ourselves. And it's important. Sweden is a pioneer country. We will continue to be. We have never had as good a chance as now to actually achieve our goals through combined action. We have credibility because we have shown our ability to act. We have a climate law and a climate policy framework that really makes us reach the 2020 target, for example. In principle, we are close to achieving the 2030 target, even. So we are ahead of schedule. At the same time, we will make many new investments and major investments in the climate and the environment. We have done it more than any government has done in the past. But we will continue that work tirelessly, for we know that time is short and that we need to do more. We have far from just a string on our lyre. We make many different efforts to achieve the different environmental and societal objectives, and biofuels are an important part of that. Unfortunately, I never heard the Left Party's answer on how to actually reduce emissions here and now from the cars that are fossil-dependent. I would very much like the Left Party to give an answer to that.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-62	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me about my intention and the Government's goal is that the change in the beach protection that is now being developed will enable more construction in a beachfront location in Sweden. He has also asked what concrete measures I intend to take to enable more new construction in the archipelago. The study on the revision of beach protection presented its report to the government on 14 December 2020. The report has since been referred to us until 3 May this year. The ongoing preparation within the Government Office of the investigation's proposal is ongoing. Among other things, the Committee directives for the study state that it will be considerably easier to build beachfronts in rural areas. Furthermore, it states that beach protection legislation needs to be fundamentally redesigned by increasing differentiation. According to the directives, this differentiation should take seriously the fact that access to lakes and beaches varies across the country, as well as population density and exploitation pressures. Furthermore, the Directives provide for easier construction of beachfronts and create better conditions for housing and business activities, mainly for small businesses, tourism and green industries in areas with low exploitation pressures. In addition, local influence will increase. A continued strong and, if necessary, reinforced beach protection should be provided in accordance with the directives to protect unbroken coastlines, universal access and the environment in areas that are already heavily exploited. An important part of the beach protection review is to facilitate the construction and economic activities of rural areas. Another important aspect is the protection of beach protection in highly exploited areas. Furthermore, the Directives state that the current rules on the protection of shores need to be amended in order to ensure that the different protection needs of different areas have an impact. Against this background, there is no clear answer to the question whether mine and the Government's objective is to enable more construction in a beachfront location in Sweden – in some areas it needs to be easier to build near the beach, and in some other areas there may be reason to tighten up the beach protection. With regard to the question of what concrete measures I intend to take to enable more new construction in the archipelago, I would like to refer to the ongoing preparation of the study's proposals, which I cannot precede.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of the Environment Bolund. I wrote my interpellation after reading the report on the protection of the beach, which is made by Catharina Håkansson Boman, former State Secretary to Maud Olofsson. These are probably pretty clear directives from the government, because it lands in what it does. The investigation proposes reliefs in Norrland, where I would argue that the exploitation pressure is extremely limited, and reinforced beach protection in the Stockholm region. Then one might wonder: Should there be different legislations for different parts or different applications of the legislation in different parts of the country? Is that reasonable? Is it legal? The Beach Act came in 1952. The Beach Protection Act came in 1975. Why is the Coast Guard Act as general as it is today? It is 100 meters in general beach shelter and 300 meters especially beach shelter. Has the Minister of the Environment seen any beach that is 300 meters in Sweden? At least I didn't. Madam President, I would like The Act covers 42,000 km of beaches along the coasts and lakes of Sweden. Why should the state have power over private land in this way? I would like an answer from the Minister for the Environment. I believe that beach protection should only be at municipal decision-making level because the local building boards have a completely different knowledge of what it looks like in the municipalities. It is often the case that political parties, regardless of colour, set up building boards according to that particular competence and experience. The municipalities could, if you wish, include beach protection in the outline plans and say that this area is valuable and we are very afraid of that. Then you can strike that balance in the municipal council when you adopt the detailed plan. The County Administrative Board is the authority that has the right to review municipal decisions today. In fact, some appeals are similar to government activism. Individual administrators go in and make their own assessments, often arbitrary, and tear up the decisions of the local building committee. It is in itself an extreme violation of property rights. The question is what purpose the Coastal Protection Act has in essence. I have an example from my municipality. Gisslingö is an island outside Tjockö. When, after three years of processing, you finally had to renovate a bridge that you have had on the property for 150 years, the County Administrative Board wrote in its decision that privatizing measures on or adjacent to the bridge should not be taken. This is written though it is about a private plot that has been there for several hundred years and about a bridge that has been there for at least 150 years, I have been told by the property owner. Another example is when you are seeking permission to build a bridge on an island without a land connection. Then the County Administrative Board rejects it, because Waxholmsbåt goes there once a day. A private landowner is therefore denied the application to build a bridge on his own property. I can't believe it!
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-75	Madam President, I would like Strand protection is an important factor for us to achieve our environmental goals but also other societal goals, such as outdoor goals. The beaches are incredibly important both for plant and animal life and for us humans. I think that very many of us who like to be out in the woods and land can recognize us in that you think there is a special value in having a coffee at a lake, making a campfire on the Baltic coast or being able to go swimming on the beautiful cliffs in Bohuslän. Of course, this is something worth protecting not only for us but also for future generations. I get a little worried when it sounds like Kjell Jansson wants to cancel the beach shelter completely. This is the first time that I have heard a Member of the Swedish Parliament say so. Strand protection is a national concern and aims to protect everyone's access to beach areas and also to ensure long-term good living conditions for animals and plants on land and in water. Kjell Jansson may know that we have a rather difficult situation with regard to biodiversity. You usually talk about 1 million species at a global level that are under threat. There we are no better in Sweden than in the rest of the world. We have a large number of species that are threatened, and many of them actually have their habitat right on shores between water and land. It is also worth considering when conducting this debate, but it seems that Kjell Jansson does not really see that problem. Beach protection is an important part of the green infrastructure and also helps to ensure that we can get a range of ecosystem services that we need, for example by ensuring access to beaches for bathing and general outdoor activities, which I know we are many who love and want to continue. Strand protection is also of great importance for the environmental quality objectives supported by the Swedish Parliament. We must do what we can to achieve those objectives. You can't just ignore that when you think that ownership is the only thing that should apply. Our objectives are common, and then we must also take joint action to achieve them. Outdoors are also important. Especially during the pandemic, people have realised the importance of outdoor life and the value of being out in the forest and land and enjoying the rose and getting energy replenished. We also see that the exploitation pressure continues to be very high when it comes to the coasts. The total length of the coastline affected by settlements only increased between 2015 and 2018, i.e. in three years, by just under 3 per cent in Sweden. In total, 28 per cent of the total seashore line was affected by settlements in 2018. So today is quite a large part, and it is increasing every year. Let's just say that this is a finite resource. Once a coastal area has been exploited, it is exploited, and it is difficult to restore. It is also a little surprising when Kjell Jansson asks if you can not have different rules in different parts of the country. Kjell Jansson and I can surely agree that Sweden does not look exactly the same everywhere, but it is quite different conditions in different parts of the country. For example, with regard to the 28% of the coastline, it goes without saying that in urban areas it is an even higher proportion. It can be quite difficult for people to come down to the beach, for example, while in other parts of the country there are plenty of beach areas. Therefore, it has been proposed in the study to have what is called rural areas, which means that it would define which parts of Sweden are rural areas where special rules may apply. Does Kjell Jansson mean it's all wrong? Should we not have such rural areas? Should you either cancel the beach shelter everywhere or have the same beach protection in Stockholm city, for example, as in Kiruna? It would be good to get clear what Kjell Jansson is aiming for.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-87	Madam President, I would like What's a green infrastructure? Is it on private property? It's crazy to hear, I want to say. Environmental objectives can be achieved with other existing protection measures. It doesn't have to be beach shelters. If you now care for nature, you have other protections, such as species protection and other things. That beach shelter should be laid like a warehouse on top of it is crazy. In Germany there is a differentiated beach protection. There you can have a beach shelter of 8 meters and one of 32 meters according to the conditions. But here we have general beach shelters. I'm not saying all the beach shelters are going away. I believe that the application should be at the municipal level. It would be highly democratic, with skilled politicians who are familiar with reality and not young officials on the county administrative board who are recent graduates and have little experience of life. After all, the older you get, the more experience you get. It's nothing weird. I will continue with a few examples. There are great difficulties for entrepreneurs who conduct marine activities in the Stockholm archipelago. Those who have yards and marinas, pick up boats and services and fix them have really hard to get permission today. Here it is absolutely hard no, and it costs the nutrition and jobs out in the archipelago. There's a lot of people living on this. Not everyone's building. There are some screws too, and there are some who work in the care. But it is a large sector in the archipelago. It's a lot of small business. Most of them are life artists out there, and they are very limited by this legislation. In addition, I think it is completely undemocratic that the County Administrative Board should go in and tear up municipal decisions. That's remarkable. And I can promise the Minister for the Environment that there's plenty of room for those who want to go hiking. I understand that that purpose exists. I think that's good. I have quite a lot of beaches and land myself, and I just think it's nice when people come and go and want to go out with a picnic basket. That's not the problem. The problem is you can't do anything when you own land. It is also interesting to hear the arguments from the Minister for the Environment and to think that it is the state that should decide and not the municipalities. How beach protection is handled is actually an intrusion into municipal self-determination. Madam President, I would like There will be reliefs in Norrland and reinforced beach protection in the Stockholm region. Then one might wonder: Why do you want to sharpen it in the Stockholm region in a different way than in the rest of the country? After all, the state owns limited land in the Stockholm region, although in the southern archipelago it has some land related to the defence. In Norrland, the state owns substantially more land. Madam President, I would like I also wonder why already built-up properties should once again be tested for beach protection. If you already have a lake plot with a villa you might want to supplement with a boathouse. You might want to extend the bridge because it's been a land rise. The Stockholm archipelago has had a land rise over the past 65 years of 40 centimetres. I look forward to the water going up because it's hard to get into all the docks today.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-97	Madam President, I would like The last thing Kjell Jansson said, I still have to comment. To say that one looks forward to the water going up, that is to say looking forward to climate change and the huge disasters that can come at a global level, is astounding. We are talking about the fact that if we do not succeed in halting climate change, it can – not in the near future but in a number of decades or in a hundred years – be about ten meters of sea level rise. With a little knowledge in your luggage, I hope you say you're not looking forward to it. I also think that Kjell Jansson should not take down officials who do an incredibly intensive and important work to weigh different interests against each other. That's what's part of the official role. Since Kjell Jansson has asked, I can say that different area protection has different purposes. Beach protection aims to protect both animal and plant life and public access to beach areas. Strand protection is also a stronger and more specific protection than the protection that exists for an area that has been designated as an area of national interest for nature conservation or national interest in outdoor life. Kjell Jansson claims that nothing can be done, but the reality speaks a different language. We see that the exploitation of the beaches continues, and this affects the ability to reach several of our environmental and outdoor goals. This is a development that we must take seriously. We can't pretend that reality looks different. I would also like to remind you that the objectives of beach protection are long-term. A beach environment that today seems to have little value can prove to be very valuable later on. Precisely in view of the great exploitation of the beaches, it is important to have that perspective with you too. I really think we need the beach shelter. It has also been in place since 1975, so it is not a new fashion or innovation that this government or the former has come up with, but it has been there for quite a long time in Sweden. These are important principles. We have the right of public access in Sweden. It is a principle that I hope we are all behind, that is, that we should have the opportunity to move around our country, to enjoy our fantastic nature. It is important that there is not only on paper, but that there is actually an alleman's legal access to, for example, beach areas and that there is room for the animals and plants that have the beach environment as their habitat. The study says that there may be such conditions in cities and other agglomerations that the degree of exploitation and population density is so high that it also goes beyond the possibility of recreation and the preservation of rich plant and animal life. The study also describes that exploitation in coastal areas, for example, has a particularly negative impact on some water areas. It is clear that there is reason to strengthen the protection of the shoreline in order to protect such valuable waters. It is also important to point out that there are industries that depend entirely on access to beaches. For example, the tourism industry is growing in Sweden. Not only can we think about other nutritional needs, but we also need to think about the needs of the tourism industry – not right now during the pandemic, but we hope that we will get out of the pandemic in the near future. It is a nutrition that also gives a first entry into the labour market for many young people, and visitors from other countries and Swedes can come out and experience the fantastic nature we have in Sweden. It is a nutrition that needs the ability to continue to operate. If we cannot reverse the increase in exploitation, the risk is that the tourism industry will find it more difficult to operate in the future.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-105	Madam President, I would like We're in favour of the right of public access, but we're in charge. This is not always the case; for example, much is littered in the archipelago. Most referrals are critical of the beach protection investigation that Håkansson Boman has presented. This applies to SKR, which represents all 290 municipalities, LRF, Entrepreneurs and Property owners and the majority of the Stockholm region. The Strandskyddsförsökningen suggested that the protection be tightened in Stockholm County and released freer in Norrland. For what reasons should different rules apply? I'm not really getting an answer to that. I still don't think it's legal. Why are already built-up properties for the re-examination of beach protection, which is already in use, which is already privatised land, already owned by people who have titled land through Lantmäteriet where the property is classified as a lake plot? It should be a matter of course and the right to build a dock and boathouse on already built plots. Building a jetty in the archipelago is like building a garage for the car in Enskede. If you want a living archipelago and countryside, you need a strong reform of the Coast Guard Act and a delegation to the municipalities, which can handle the issues with greater care than that there are officials on the county administrative board and run over politics, which in itself is completely undemocratic. It undermines local self-government, and that is remarkable. It is interesting to hear that the Minister for the Environment has a completely different view from what I have on beach protection. We agree that certain beaches need protection, but not everything. Sweden's beaches are a total of ten times the world's circumference – 42,000 miles. All it takes is a beach shelter – it's NATO.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-111	Madam President, I would like Strand protection is an important factor in achieving many of our environmental and societal goals. I am concerned that Kjell Jansson, in the way he is now doing, is fundamentally questioning the protection of the beach. It is not on the political agenda. What we're talking about now is to review the beach shelter. That is also something that we agree on in the January agreement. We can see, as Kjell Jansson should see, that Sweden looks different in different parts of the country. There are different populations, and there is different access to beaches. There are also different exploitation pressures, which means that there are reasons to have different ways of regulating access to beaches in different parts of the country. It is also obvious that how land is exploited and built up also determines how easy it is for the public to access valuable areas, such as the beaches. Although land has already been built up, additional buildings may affect the possibility of being out and using the right of public access. It is a little strange to say that it would be wrong to have an examination of national interests vis-à-vis local interests. It exists in many different areas. There are national interests for, for example, the defence or for energy production and the like. Does Kjell Jansson propose that we remove all the national interests and that it should only be local interests that apply, i.e. never have a review against national interests? This is a development that I do not support and which I hope Kjell Jansson does not think is a good idea when he thinks about it either. I'm glad we have a beach shelter. We will ensure that the beach shelter remains, but it will also be modernised. It will provide opportunities for development throughout the country, and that is what we are doing now. The beach protection investigation forms the basis, but we also conduct political discussions on how to take it further.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-115	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I intend to make a decision in the near future regarding the disposal, what analysis I make of the consequences of the extension of the process if this does not happen and finally how I reason to divide the decisions when the municipalities concerned so clearly announced that the decisions must be taken jointly. Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management AB, SKB, has applied for permission for the construction, holding and operation of a nuclear facility for the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel and waste. These are, on the one hand, permits under the Nuclear Act and, on the other hand, permits under the Environmental Code. The application covers three parts: capacity expansion of the central intermediate spent fuel storage facility, Clab, a facility for encapsulation of spent nuclear fuel for final storage — the encapsulation facility
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-117	A consultation with Poland under the Espoo Convention is due to be completed these days. The Government is awaiting the outcome of that consultation. Thereafter, the government will work on a priority and as quickly as possible to prepare a decision. The government is determined to avoid that Sweden has no storage capacity for the spent nuclear fuel and the consequences it would have. The Government's intention has been to process the application together because S KB has not applied to expand Clab individually but the capacity expansion is part of the application for the final repository system. Following a government decision on the single application, the Land and Environment Court will continue legal proceedings. The Government considers that there is a significant risk that this process will not be completed before the interlayer Clab in Oskarshamn exceeds its current condition. Therefore, the government is now investigating the possibility of breaking out the application to expand the capacity of Clab and decide on it separately. If decisions are to be split, the Government will of course first consult with SKB, the municipalities concerned and other interested parties.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-119	Madam President, I would like My vision and Moderates' vision in the field of electricity is that we will see a significant increase in the use of electricity in Sweden in the future in order to combine economic development with a green transition. The fact that when industry and transport shift significantly increased electricity use means that we can get new jobs and tax revenues and a green transition – or, if you want, both nuclear and renewable – if you like. A few weeks ago, State Waterfall came with what they call an UMM or market announcement. They say that the risk is that in a few years' time all nuclear power in Sweden will be shut down because the government has not made a decision on the so-called disposal. Today it works in that way that waste is moved from a nuclear power plant to an intermediate warehouse in Oskarshamn and is planned to be moved later to Forsmark in Uppland for final storage. The warehouse in Oskarshamn is about to become full, and the government cannot provide information in time. If you cannot expand, you cannot run the Swedish nuclear power plants; thus, in practice, 40% of Swedish electricity production must be closed down. That Vattenfall has now warned is in accordance with the law. They are therefore obliged to point out that the fact that Per Bolund has not taken a decision will have these effects in 2024 unless decisions come in the near future. Madam President, there is, in practice, a complete application for detention on the table of the government. Throughout the entire time that Sweden has had and used nuclear power, money has been set aside for every kilowatt hour produced. There has been research into final storage techniques for decades. There has been an extensive review under the laws, namely the Environmental Code and the Nuclear Technology Act. All parts of this trial are finished in practice. Responsible authority, Radiation Safety Authority, has agreed. The assessment between different national interests has taken place. The questions raised in the opinion of the Land and Environment Court to the government about what is called copper corrosion are therefore supplemented and removed. Oskarshamn, who hosts the intermediate warehouse, has said yes. This has been built on a promise from the government that the government will resolve the question of final custody. Östhammar municipality has said yes to a final disposal in Forsmark, what is usually called a veto decision. A few weeks ago, the Riksdag decided on an announcement to urge the Government to make a decision in the near future. Sweden as a nation has fulfilled its international obligations in what is commonly called Espoo consultation. Most recently, the governments of both Germany and Poland have notified the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that they have nothing to say about final disposals in Sweden. The only thing missing is the decision of Per Bolund and the government. I understand, Madam President, that Per Bolund is in agony about this. The environmental party was formed on the resistance to nuclear power. But I would say this: If Per Bolund now makes sure to pilot the government up to a decision on a repository, he will demonstrate leadership and personal qualities that go far beyond the narrow self-interest of his own party and person. I would say that it is now decided which politician Per Bolund is and will be for posterity. All of this, Madam President, boils down to two recurring issues. The first is: Will the government make a decision in the near future? It's really just a yes or no answer Per Bolund needs to give about this. Or more specifically, if he wants to: Will you follow the invitation from State Waterfall to do so this summer? The second relates to what is stated in the reply to divide the application. Then the question is: Will the government not only consider but choose to divide the application?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-133	Madam President, I would like I can reply directly: the government will not risk the intermediate layer becoming full in a way that will not allow the Swedish nuclear power production to continue. That would be directly irresponsible, and I hope that Lars Helmered and the Moderates will also do everything possible to avoid. Then one must also see what the reality is and have the opportunity to re-evaluate how decision-making processes need to be managed. Here I am a little worried because it seems that the Moderates do not have the capacity to re-evaluate and re-analyse. It is welcome what capacity Lars Hjälmered connects to me as a person. I have been Minister for the Environment since February, and during that time we have had processes that have run all the time to comply with the international conventions and agreements that Sweden has supported. I don't know if Lars Helmered means that I would have ignored the international conventions and just failed to comply with them in order to make a decision. I think that would have been rather irresponsible. I'm not going to comment on Lars Helmered's speculations about different motives and the like. It does not serve this debate, but we can do so in other contexts. However, I can say that it was not a completed application in the way Lars Helmered reports that came in to the government. That is also what the Land and Environment Court ruled. When the cases were handed over to the government, there were still several actions that needed to be done – the need for complements, simply – so that we could find answers to questions. It is also because a coherent system for the disposal of spent fuel is a very complex issue. It's an enormous amount of material. It is also a decision that covers completely different time dimensions from the decisions that we normally deal with in this House. It is a hundred thousand years from now that we are going to keep a very dangerous substance separate from man and the environment, so it is clear that it is a decision that deserves to be taken seriously and goes to the bottom of the issues that have been raised. We have done intensive work throughout this period in answering the questions that have not been answered since before, such as the question of copper corrosion. There came the Radiation Safety Agency with its analysis of SKB's LOT attempts as late as March, so it is quite recently that the government has had access to it. There has also been consultation with Poland and Germany throughout this period. Having said that, I would really like to emphasise that we will not risk Sweden ending up in a situation where we will not be able to produce a large part of the electricity that we are using today. We are making great efforts on the part of the government to increase electricity generation. This is particularly the case with renewable electricity production, which has increased sharply. In particular, wind power is now changing nuclear power in production capacity, and this is something that pushes electricity prices and makes it possible to make many of the electrification efforts that are now taking place – electrification of traffic to reduce emissions but also electrification of heavy industry. These have been very important initiatives. Here, too, we must be prepared to analyse the processes. We could conclude that a single application would take so long to process in later stages, after the government has decided, that we can end up in a situation where the intermediate layer will be full before we are finished with the other parts and we therefore risk ending up in a situation where Swedish nuclear power cannot be produced. That would be irresponsible of a government, and it is a situation that I will never allow us to end up in. I will do everything I can to make decisions so that we do not end up in that situation.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-142	Madam President, I would like The main issues in this debate today are, firstly, whether the government will take a decision in the near future – in practice this summer – on the Swedish final repository and, secondly, whether the government will divide the application, i.e. in practice say yes to an extension of the intermediate warehouse in Oskarshamn and postpone the final disposal decision. Both are perfectly legitimate, but these are, in fact, yes or no decisions we are waiting for and have not yet been given by the Minister for the Environment. For me, this is not about me and Per Bolund having a discussion every day about whether we should have nuclear power, wind power or anything else. I would say that this is a decision of responsibility. Neither the Minister for the Environment nor I were present when it was decided that we should have nuclear power. We can divide over the continuation, but there is a stewardship that we who have used nuclear power also have a responsibility to settle the whole question of final disposal in port. Madam President, I would like It is in practice a complete application that is on the government table right now. All parts are taken or examined. The question mark of the Land and Environment Court regarding copper corrosion has been straightened out. The Espoo consultation and consultation with other countries has been completed. The veto decision in Oskarshamn municipality has been completed. The veto decision in Östhammar municipality has been completed. The judgment between different national interests has been completed. Both the Radiation Safety Authority and the Court of Justice have said yes to the technical solution of encapsulation, whose acronym is the KBS-3 method. What is missing, Madam President, when you sum up all the papers and documents is that Per Bolund will take this to the Prime Minister and other colleagues for a decision in the near future. The question is: Will he make sure that decisions are made either on all three components this summer or cut this into two parts? If this is to be shared, Madam President, it may be a practical solution. It is quite right that this will allow for the expansion of the intermediate layer and that nuclear power can continue. The second – the final disposal decision – can be taken later. However, this would be a betrayal. In the past, the promise from the government to Oskarshamn Municipality has been that Oskarshamn will host an intermediate warehouse provided that the state ensures that the final disposal is completed in port. Ultimately, Madam President, nuclear power will not be able to run after the summer of 2024 unless the government makes a decision. Not only do the Moderates say this, but government Vattenfall has been forced to publish a so-called market announcement – a UMM – in the electricity and energy markets under current legislation. If Per Bolund and his colleagues do not understand any kind of decision about intermediate warehouses and disposals, they will simply not continue after the 2024 revision, in this case, Forsmark and Ringhals. Reasonably, it will be the same for the owners of Oskarshamn. I would say that it would be extremely unfortunate if we were to land there. This may, once again, be an inconvenient issue for an environmental party; I do understand that. But we also have the responsibility and the stewardship in this. Even if Per Bolund, or ultimately the Green Party, has a nuclear resistance, I would say that the reasonable thing now is to hook arms and solve this and not to roll this unresolved issue before us to future generations. Then, Madam President, we will come back to the main questions: will the government take a decision this summer on the repository, and will it take a decision that resolves the issue of the intermediate layer but not the question of the repository?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-151	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered continues with his speculations. I am not going to comment on them; Lars Helmered will have to do this kind of debate if he wants to. The way I see it, it's obvious. We have had nuclear power, and we have nuclear power. It has produced waste, and of course we will take care of it. I share the view that the generation that has used nuclear power should also take responsibility for the management of nuclear waste; there we do not disagree in any way. Therefore, I think Lars Hjälmered can relax with speculation and instead concentrate on the issue – that is what I, as the minister responsible, am trying to do. I think this is an incredibly important decision, and we should be able to see this together. I think it would be irresponsible to take a decision before the proceedings are completed and before we have done what is required of us as a review body, that is to say, to answer all the questions that exist and listen to all the voices that exist in this debate and discussion. We must be confident that this is a safe method and that the detention will be safe, not only in 1, 10 or 100 years' time, but also in 100 000 years' time. I was hoping that we could agree that we should comply with international conventions on the right of our neighbours to be transparent, to make comments and to ensure that all the necessary evidence is in place. It is this work that the government has devoted itself to with great vigour. With regard to the issue of increased storage capacity in the central intermediate warehouse, Clab, there is no doubt that this is urgent. There is no discussion of this, so there is no reason to paint some kind of conflict there either. As I have already said several times, the government is determined to avoid a situation in which Sweden has no storage capacity for spent nuclear fuel, with the consequences that this would have. I hope this was a clear answer to the question – if Lars Hjälmered did not understand it, I can repeat it. We are determined not to end up in a situation where the storage capacity is filled. We have intended to process the application together, in terms of both final disposal, interim storage and encapsulation facilities, because SKB has made the application in this way – as a whole. We are also aware that a continued legal process in the Land and Environment Court will take place after a decision has been taken by the government. From the government's point of view, there is a significant risk that this process will not be completed before the interim warehouse in Oskarshamn, Clab, exceeds its current condition. I think it would be irresponsible not to take this issue seriously. We also investigate the possibility of breaking out the application to expand the capacity in Clab and decide on it separately precisely in order to avoid the situation that Lars Helmered so clearly described. My question back to Lars Helmered is: Should we now receive this kind of signal that there is a significant risk that the process will not be completed yet go further on the path that has been taken and not even consider whether there is a reason to separate the application into two parts? Would that be a responsible way for a government to act? It would be very valuable to hear Lars Helmered's analysis of it. We will continue to turn all the stones around in order to avoid a situation where Sweden has no storage capacity for the spent nuclear fuel. If – I say again, because this is not a decision that has been taken – it would be appropriate to divide the decisions, the government will of course before then consult with SKB, the municipalities concerned and other interested parties.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-162	Madam President, I would like The main questions are: Will the government soon make a decision on the disposal, either on the whole or on the interim stock? I can see that Per Bolund has been asked twice but has not answered the question. He has reasoned in a perfectly reasonable way, Madam President, but this is not Parliament's decision – it is about the government having to make a decision on the final disposal issue. Third time, I now give the Minister for the Environment the chance to give a reply here in the Chamber debate today: Will the government in the near future make a decision on one solution or another? I think that the best solution would be to take this together, with all three elements. However, I fully respect the fact that the government is looking at the various options. The decent thing would be for the Minister for the Environment to say: Let's split the application. He and the others will then have to discuss with Oskarshamn municipality how to deal with the betrayal and point out a plan for how to deal with the long-term end-of-life issue. This is basically a matter of responsibility for nuclear power and its management. In addition, Madam President, there is an advantage in the Swedish system because money has been allocated for every kilowatt hour produced throughout the time we have had nuclear power in Sweden to finance the final repository and research in the future. It is quite right that the Minister for the Environment said – there have been additions in the spring. But now that we are approaching the summer, there is in practice a complete application on the table of the Minister for the Environment. The question of national interests has been clarified. The court proceedings have been completed. The veto decision in the municipality in question is ready. Per Bolund mentioned international conventions. The last time it was the governments of Germany and Poland who said that they had no objection to Sweden moving forward with a final custody decision. Then we will come back to the main issue, Madam President: what decision will the government take? Will a decision be taken this summer, in accordance with the wishes of Vattenfall and others, on interim stocks and disposals, so that we do not stop nuclear power and so that we resolve the issue of responsibility in the long term?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-169	Madam President, I would like I can repeat myself one more time, so that Lars Hjälmered has really heard my message: the government will not act in such a way that we risk ending up in a situation where the intermediate layer is full and nuclear power cannot continue to be produced. This would be an irresponsible way of acting, and the government will not contribute to that. Now I have said this once more, and perhaps even more clearly. We believe, however, that the Government Office, like all other authorities, should work according to the principle of administrative law that applies to our work, and that is that a case should be handled as easily, quickly and cost-effectively as possible without the rule of law being respected. This also applies to the case files. However, we must ensure that the procedure takes the necessary time to make a well-prepared decision. We can see that the case is an unusually complex one in many ways. It is extremely extensive in scope and material. The time horizon covered is extreme. Hundreds of thousands of years is not the time perspective that neither I nor Lars Helmered usually work with in everyday life. It is also particularly extensive because, unlike all other trials, the Land and the Environment Court did not give a clear direction. Rather, a number of questions were asked which the government must continue to prepare in order to be able to respond to, and we have done so in full force. Let's analyse the situation from the location where we are. There we have a responsibility, as I see it, to analyse whether a decision on a single application, both on disposal and on intermediate storage, will risk that Sweden will end up in a situation where such a decision will not be in legal force before the intermediate warehouse is full. We have a responsibility on the part of the government to analyse whether it is a better way to divide the application into several different parts and handle the middle layer more quickly. It is a preparation that is still ongoing. But, of course, we will deal with this issue so that we do not risk Sweden's energy supply.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-174	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I see the problem that wind power can contribute to the spread of microplastics and how I intend to act to ensure that the soil and the environment around the wind turbines are also non-toxic. I and the government take the issue of microplastic proliferation very seriously and believe that it is very important to both identify and address sources of microplastic emissions to the environment, whether intentionally added or unintentionally formed. For the intentionally added microplastics, regulation is currently under review within the framework of the REACH framework within the EU. We expect a decision soon. In order also to address the problem of unintentional microplastics, the European Commission intends to launch a roadmap in 2021, which means that both intentionally added microplastics and accidentally formed microplastics will be regulated within the EU. The government has acted and intends to continue to work towards an ambitious approach within the framework of the EU's work to regulate microplastics. The general principles of the Environmental Code mean that any person who carries out or intends to carry out an activity must acquire the knowledge necessary to take into account the nature and scope of the activity or measure in order to protect human health and the environment from harm or inconvenience. In addition, any person carrying out or intending to carry out an activity shall carry out the protective measures, comply with the restrictions and other precautions necessary to prevent, prevent or prevent any damage or inconvenience to human health or the environment from the operation or action. For the same purpose, the best possible techniques shall be used for professional activities. Wind power of the size to which Alexandra Anstrell refers in its question can only be carried out with an environmental permit. This means that the operations must be tested according to the environmental code. Given that legislation already exists to protect the environment, the government does not intend to take further action at this stage.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yeah, we're gonna talk about wind power and the spread of microplastics. For me, it is important to highlight both the advantages and disadvantages of wind power expansion. It is in a broader perspective about Sweden's future and energy supply as well as about the people who live near wind farms, or where they are planned, and about the environmental, leisure and cultural values that are affected. I think that wind power, like any other power supply, needs to be highlighted from different angles in order to ensure that we make the right choices for the future as much as possible. When it comes to microplastics, I have asked how the Minister views the problem that wind power can contribute to the spread of microplastics. The Minister has replied that he and the government take the issue of microplastic proliferation very seriously, and I appreciate that. The only question is, what happens next? What will become of it all? Minister Bolund also tells us that in order to tackle the problem of unintentional microplastics, the European Commission intends to launch a roadmap in 2021, which the government wants to be involved in regulating. The Minister also talks about the importance of everyone who carries out or intends to carry out an activity acquiring the necessary knowledge. There is, like, a gap in between, Madam President, a gap between European regulation and the acquisition of knowledge by the individual. It is a gap when it comes to taking responsibility for Sweden. It is missing here, Madam President. I think it might be good to keep a full eye on Sweden in our work together with the EU. It can also be helpful to learn from all the talented, dedicated people who have acquired the knowledge they need. Microplastics are now found in virtually all earth's ecosystems. In the research community, it is believed that it is high time for more research into the impact of plastics on people. At the same time, large-scale wind power has sailed up as a new major microplastic spreader. The more precise and long-term effects of microplastics can have an impact on human health. It is not mapped, but more and more research points to risks. But research is lagging behind, and it is high time we learned more. This is the view of both scientists and health organisations such as the WHO. Then I think it might be good to have a half-fat. How does wind power affect our land? And how does the Minister intend to act to ensure that the land and environment around the wind turbines are also non-toxic? The large-scale expansion of wind power may be a significant source of microplastic proliferation. The turbine blades of the plants, which can weigh more than 20 tonnes each, consist mostly of composite plastic. The spinning leaves erode when exposed to wind, rain, snow and ice, releasing small pieces of plastic from the surface and spreading into nature. How much plastic is spread, you don't really know. However, assuming that the leaves of a work can lose about 10 percent of the total weight over an estimated life span of 15 years, it has been calculated that it could release six tons of microplastics. Six tons is about twelve horses, four cars or the like. It is quite a lot, and then we have not come to the point of recycling such a sheet either. Are we making the right choice for the future? After all, the future is not so far away when it comes to the sustainability of a wind turbine.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-192	Madam President, I would like Microplastics are an incredibly important area, and plastic littering, not least in our seas, is a huge environmental problem. I must pay tribute to Alexandra Anstrell for an untied angle in her fight against wind power. We have debated it many times, and it seems that the spreads are broad and that there are many different ways to question and attack wind power development in Sweden. Perhaps I do not think that we should go to wind power, but that we can look more broadly at the whole problem. If Alexandra Anstrell is really involved in her work against microplastics, is it not better to look at what our experts estimate are the major sources of microplastics in the environment rather than with spinal reflex at every opportunity going on wind power? That's how the government works. We are not locking ourselves at our individual angles or at individual sources, but we are looking at the environmental problem widely. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has looked at which are the major sources of microplastics. It is said that industrial production and handling of plastics are such a source. Wearing of tyres from roadways is also a major source of microplastic as well as artificial turf plans. Textile washing is also a source of microplastics, as textiles are often made of plastics today. Boat floor paint has been lifted up as such a source and not least littering, i.e. the plastic litter that we, as citizens, unfortunately all too often release on the streets and squares and also in nature. In 2019 an update was made and it was noted that waste materials from construction can also be a source of microplastics. Riding facilities with a base of plastics or rubber may also be such a source. Even artificial grass in other than plans, for example in traffic and park environments, can be a source of microplastics. Nowhere on this list do I find wind power as an important source of microplastics, and it is also worth taking in for Alexandra Anstrell. That is not to say that we should not be involved in all sources. Our goal must nevertheless be to reduce the huge load of plastic and plastic litter to which the environment is exposed. In our seas we have a big challenge with 150 million tons of plastic floating around and also broken down into microplastics. We also know that microplastics come into the food we eat and in the water we drink and thus affect us. We know that the use of plastics leads to the risk of wear and tear of plastics, for example in wind turbines. But plastic is used in many other places where you can imagine that wear is greater. We also transport plastic for production. Last February, 13 tons of plastic pellets ended up on the shores of the west coast when the ship Trans Carrier lost its cargo outside Denmark. This is an example of the fact that plastic use itself is also a driving force for site littering and microplastic generation. We work intensively to reduce littering and the presence of microplastics. We do it widely, and let our experts decide what the great sources are. There is also intensive work going on to develop wind power. For example, carbon fibre is now being tested for wind power and other material combinations. Technology development is in progress. Research is also carried out on wind power. Here, the government does not control what is to be researched, but wind power operators and authorities can point out which areas are most important here. If they feel that microplastic dispersion is such an area, there is nothing to prevent it from being researched.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-202	Madam President, I would like It is not just microplastics that are a problem for wind power in our cold climate. It is also reported that ice on the rotor blades can be a major problem. Today, there are no reliable detection systems that remove ice when the wind turbines are in operation, but deport while the wind turbines are stationary. Did you know that wind turbines cannot generate electricity for their own display? It is therefore necessary to supply electricity from elsewhere in order to decommission wind turbines. The water formed during deflection flows straight into the ground. What happens when the rotor blades are washed, we can only be horrified over. It spreads around and flows, as I said, straight down the hill. Is that what we want? In winter ice shoes are thrown away from the rotor blades and in unfortunate cases can kill a person or hurt an animal. That's why 300 meters around every wind farm is a deadly area. It is difficult to teach reindeer and birds to read that it is a dangerous area where they should not walk or fly. We will talk more about wildlife in our next debate. However, 300 metres can be used as a yardstick for the extent to which microplastics are spread around when ice and storm are shaking on the rotor blades. One of those really dark, icy night when it blows so that you think the houses will blow away I think the weather also shakes a bit on the rotor blades. Madam President, I would like I really don't want to paint a dystopian future picture of wind turbines. As I said, I would just like to highlight both the pros and cons of wind power expansion. If you see the problems, you can also do something about them. But if you do not realize that there are problems, there will never be any improvement. What does the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action really say about a wind turbine during its lifetime being able to lose about 10 percent of its total weight, which means six tons of detached plastic? Shouldn't we take responsibility for this just because it's not on Bolund's list? Should we take greater responsibility for artificial turf plans than for the massive expansion of wind power? What advice is there for municipalities and citizens? Is this something you want on the corner? What are the different options? How do we make the right choice for the future? Madam President, I would like Where is the precautionary principle in this? The operator shall take measures or restrictions in its activities or take other precautions to prevent, prevent or prevent damage or other inconvenience to the environment or health. The precautionary principle means that precautions should already be taken if it can be assumed that an activity or action may cause harm and inconvenience to human health and the environment. It is therefore sufficient that there is a risk of injury or inconvenience. In the event of such risk, damage and inconvenience to human health and the environment shall be prevented, prevented or prevented by protective measures, restrictions and other necessary adjustments. Madam President, I would like I ask again: where is the precautionary principle in this? I wonder what the Minister has to say about the precautionary principle regarding the expansion of wind power in Sweden. I also wonder how the Minister intends to act in order to take responsibility for the precautionary principle here.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-213	Madam President, I would like My entire political career has been about environmental and climate issues. I have not least a great deal of commitment to the marine environment and am a trained biologist with a focus on aquatic and marine systems. Marine littering and other negative environmental effects of plastics and microplastics are among the major environmental challenges of our time, and that is why we take this issue seriously. We and our experts do this by looking at the wide question of where the major sources of microplastics are and then making efforts there to reduce the load. As a natural scientist and former environmental scientist, I think this is a rather healthy way of tackling a problem. We in the Government Office should not sit and guess which sources are large or small but leave it to those who have the ability to make this assessment. They will have to provide us with a basis so that we who are going to make political decisions can decide what measures are needed to reduce the problem. I get a little bit of the feeling that Alexandra Anstrell's commitment is not in the resistance to microplastics but rather in the resistance to wind power, because there is no end to the rhetoric of Alexandra Anstrell to stop wind power expansion in Sweden. If it isn't microplastic, it's ice shoes or other. Let me point out that the list I read is not mine but the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's list of the major sources of microplastics, and wind power is not on the list. Therefore, in my fight against microplastics and plastic littering and the major problems it entails, I will probably continue to engage in what our experts say are the major sources. I think that is the wisest way to put an end to this problem as soon as possible. We take this issue very seriously, and I am pleased that we have pressed for and achieved cooperation also at European level. The European Chemicals Agency has judged microplastics to be very difficult to degrade and can be stored in living creatures, which is a warning signal for all of us. It is also noted that it is difficult to estimate the effect in the long term and that it should therefore be regulated. This work is now under way, and the government very much welcomes regulation at EU level for both intentionally incorporated and unintentionally formed microplastics. The problem is cross-border. It is easy to note that plastic that is thrown away in Sweden can end up somewhere else on earth and contribute to microplastic littering there. I hope and believe that both me and Alexandra Anstrell can leave it to the experts in Sweden and within the EU to look at what the most effective ways are to reduce the burden of both intentionally added and unintentionally formed microplastics. Once they have done their analysis, we get the question back and can make the political decisions needed to reduce the burden. Alexandra Anstrell jumps to conclusions very quickly before we have the basis to decide whether wind power is also a source that contributes significantly to this problem at a global level.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-222	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister, although I felt that I did not get many answers. Taking a question seriously and doing something about it is quite a difference, regardless of CV. We do not yet have sufficient knowledge of how microplastics affect humans and animals. We need more research. But if it is clear that wind turbines' rotor blades are expected to drop six tons of microplastics in 15 years, we need to take it seriously. We need to take responsibility for that. You can't just drive on, and that's fast and wrong. In a debate on nuclear waste disposal earlier here today, the Minister said that there is a need for reconsideration. He called for the will of the Moderates to reconsider. I am calling for the Green Party's re-examinations. Can we not look at all the effects of this? How are we supposed to protect ourselves from increased microplastics? Should we just go after a certain list and not look at all the parts that could damage our nature? Are the interventions justifiable for the future, with the effects that they bring? I wonder if the Minister can answer that. Is Minister of the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund going to take responsibility for counteracting damage or other inconveniences to the environment or health, in this case microplastics? Could the Minister consider reconsidering this as well?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-227	Madam President, I would like Wind power will be tested, and it will be tested, in any case, greater exploitations where wind power is built, which is being tested by our authorities. All environmental factors must then be taken into account in the trial, and this is being done today. As Alexandra Anstrell well knows, not all wind power projects get off, but a lot of things get turned down because you think other environmental interests weigh more heavily. That is exactly how it should be, I think, and that is also the principle that we are working on. However, I do not think that we should draw very big conclusions from rather speculative analyses where one more or less guess how much wear there is and draw conclusions from it. I think it is better that we allow our experts to assess what the major sources of plastic litter and microplastics are and to suggest what we should do about them. If we were to conclude that wind power is a very large source of microplastics, we will of course take that into account too, but that is not something that I have heard from our authorities. I have clearly read out what the major sources are, according to our best experts, and I think these are the voices we should listen to. That's also what the government does.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-231	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked whether I intend to ensure that efforts to raise awareness and promote equal assessment and supervision of impregnated wood are carried out. Wood preservatives and impregnated wood are affected by several different regulations. For example, there are requirements for the wood protection products themselves and how they can be used, requirements for the plants where the wood protection treatment is carried out and requirements for handling the waste that occurs. Lawn protection with electricity is regulated by the EU Regulation on biocidal products, which applies directly in all Member States. The aim of the Regulation is to improve the free movement of biocidal products in the internal market through harmonised rules while ensuring a high level of protection both for human and animal health and for the environment. The main rule is that biocidal products must be authorised to be made available on the market and used. In Sweden, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is investigating biocidal products on application from companies. Wood that has been treated with wood preservatives is a so-called biocidal product and is also regulated in the EU Biocidal Products Regulation. A biocidal product must be labelled with clear and easy-to-read information to the consumer. The treated article shall also be labelled with the relevant instructions and precautions, if necessary for the protection of humans, animals and the environment. Installations for wood protection impregnation are environmentally hazardous activities according to the Environmental Code. Depending on the size of the volume of such an activity, authorisation is required or notification is made to the municipality. The major activities are covered by the Industrial Emissions Directive, the main objective of which is to prevent and limit pollution from the EU's largest industrial plants. Sectoral implementing decisions, known as BAT conclusions, impose binding requirements on the use of BAT. Wood protection impregnation is covered by the BAT conclusions for surface treatment with organic solvents, including treatment of wood and wood products with chemicals. These BAT conclusions will take effect in 2024. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also has national regulations concerning protection measures and precautions for wood protection treatment. The provisions apply both to the activities covered by the Industrial Emissions Directive and to the smaller activities which are notifiable in Sweden but which are not covered by the Directive. According to the Waste Regulation, waste from wood protection treatment and waste containing certain wood preservatives is classified as hazardous waste. It is the waste producer who will classify the waste. Hazardous waste shall be sorted and treated in facilities intended for this purpose. Professional handling of hazardous waste requires notification or authorisation. We also need to report on hazardous waste to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's waste register. Households shall sort out hazardous waste and leave it at the designated place at the recycling centre. There are also rules in the Planning and Construction Act and Boverket's building regulations regarding, for example, design, functional requirements and material choices that are updated when impregnated wood is used in buildings or plants. An important objective of the regulatory framework is that the same requirements and environmental protection should apply to all. Regulation at EU level aims to have common requirements across the Union. Compliance with the regulatory framework promotes sustainable development and the proper functioning of the internal market. Compliance with the rules is not only important for human health and the environment, but also for companies to operate on a level playing field. To ensure this, the supervision of our various supervisory authorities is carried out. Supervision one according to the environmental code is distributed d to several authorities. In this case, the supervisory authorities concerned are the Chemicals Inspectorate, county administrative boards and municipalities. In accordance with the Environmental Code, the regulatory authority shall verify compliance with the rules and take the necessary measures to ensure correction. It also includes facilitating for the individual operator, which includes providing information on current rules. The Swedish Chemicals Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are responsible for supervisory guidance. This guidance is important to ensure uniform supervision and application of the regulations within Sweden. The Government has decided on several measures to strengthen and streamline environmental inspections on an overall level and make it more uniform. Among other things, new provisions have been introduced to develop national targets for monitoring under the Environmental Code. In addition, some central authorities and county administrative boards have been given a three-year mandate to promote supervision. The mission includes strengthening and coordinating supervisory guidance. The Government is working with several efforts to reduce climate impact. Et increased wood construction contributes to several of the government's climate targets to reduce emissions. Wood has properties that also provide good conditions for industrial building production, high degree of prefabrication and serial production. The Government's ambition is that Swedish companies should have good competitive conditions while production should be sustainable and a high level of environmental protection is ensured.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-241	Madam President, I would like I have every respect that the Minister has many interpellation debates today, but we are going to talk about Sweden's own gold, that is, wood. Sweden is one of the countries with the greatest potential for future construction of wood, not least because of all the forest that exists within the country's borders and is taken care of exemplaryly by our forest owners. The trend to use more wood is very strong in Sweden. Not least, discussions have taken off seriously on the benefits of wood construction in urban centres and in infrastructure. There are a number of good examples that should be disseminated in order to increase knowledge in municipalities and regions. When building with wood outdoors or in vulnerable structures, the wood product used must be protected from rot. It is appropriate to use a wood preservative or chemical modification of the wood. Over the years, wood preservatives and impregnated timber have been criticized for being toxic and environmentally damaging. It has been justified criticism, but the fact is that progress has been made in recent decades. I am afraid, however, that the public, our municipalities and the rest of Europe do not see the progress that has been made and therefore, from the old habit, choose other materials, hence my interpellation today about how we ensure that we inform and educate about the new conditions that apply to impregnated wood. We want the best for the environment and do not want to make decisions on old prejudices. I think it is important to see the possibilities of using impregnated wood in city centres around the country because the alternatives are often worse and have a much greater impact on the environment. We are large users of wood and a large exporter who both creates jobs and companies in Sweden and contributes to our prosperity. The future of wood is closely linked to the future of Sweden's exports. It is very fun that impregnated wood is now increasingly used in outdoor environments. With the right information, we could do so in much more areas. The Minister seems to have the same opinion as I on the possibilities of wood. Increased wood construction contributes to several of the government's targets for reducing emissions. As the Minister said, wood has properties that also provide good conditions for industrial construction production, high degree of prefabrication and serial production. The Minister used a large part of his speech to talk about how wood preservatives are handled and what requirements there are. I have nothing against high standards as long as the requirements are equal for everyone in the EU, that is to say that Sweden is not once again the best in the class to make demands and control while the rest of Europe is doing little as they think. If the rest of Europe does not set as high standards and does not have the same information as we think it will strike back on the wood industry in Sweden. Despite this attitude from us in Sweden, we see that the EU is making more and more attempts to make wood more environmentally dangerous than it is. We must make Europe understand that wood is a renewable resource and one of the solutions for a good environment in the future. The EU wants to set aside large parts of the forest, which goes completely against our idea of using, refining and developing the forest as the renewable resource it is. This is also how the forest makes the most use of the environment. I do not think the Minister answers my question. Unfortunately, today impregnated wood is assessed differently in different parts of the country. County administrative boards, regions and municipalities do not have an equivalent assessment of impregnated wood and how it should be handled. This makes it difficult for companies operating in the industry.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-251	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for an important issue which we have also debated on other occasions. It is gratifying that the technology is moving forward, when it comes to how we can build more in wood but also how we can protect the wood so that it can be useful for as long as possible. There are very exciting activities going on both when it comes to selecting types of wood that have, so to speak, built-in preservatives and that are impregnated already when it grows and thus have a better resistance and when it comes to protecting timber from attacks by pressure impregnation with linseed oil or heat treatment, which is another way of ensuring that the protection is increased. It is also about using the right wood in the right position and designing the design so that the wood really takes advantage of the wood's advantages, so that the wood is not exposed to unnecessary moisture. So there are many ways to use wood in a good way. And when technology progresses, my view is that the regulations must also be changed. No one benefits, especially the industry, from having regulations that are based at a time when using completely different technologies. I share Larry Söder's view that it is important that we have the same conditions and good conditions for wood production in different parts of the EU and also in different parts of the country. When it comes to ensuring competition for Swedish companies, regulation takes place at EU level. It is necessary because we have a common internal market, and we want the same rules to apply to wood imported into Sweden as to what is produced in our country. There it is a fairly long process with regard to, for example, the requirements of the EU Biocidal Products Regulation. There are committees at EU level where each Member State is represented. Sweden also has a voice at the table. These committees deal specifically with implementation issues and guidance documents to ensure uniform handling of biocidal products and treated articles. This is something that we work for and strive for, and where Sweden is a strong voice for it to be equal handling in different parts of our Union. Then I think Larry Söder has a point in that there have been some ambiguities that there have been reasons to clear up. For example, there have been uncertainties as to how wood protected timber should be labelled. The fact that we have had a dialogue between authorities and industry organisations has succeeded in finding solutions to how labelling requirements are to be met in a way that I believe all parties are satisfied with. There have also been uncertainties as to how the requirement to store wood treated with wood should be carried out and, above all, how the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations should be interpreted. This Regulation is currently under review. The Authority also states that the need for clarification will be included in this work in order to ensure uniform management and equal supervision of wood-preserved timber. So there is work going on there too. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations are from 2001 and have become 20 years old, and a lot has happened since then. It has stated that these regulations need to be updated on the basis of developments in the industry and on the basis of what has happened in other legislation during these 20 years. It will continue to take account of any uncertainties and ensure consistency of rules and uniform management and supervision of wood-preserved timber.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-260	Madam President, I would like Technology is moving forward, and it is clear that we need to make decisions in time on the basis that we have today and to see what the reality is today. Then I mean that it is very important with an information effort so that you are actually assessed equally regardless of where in Sweden you have your production so that you are not pushed away or judged differently in a municipality compared to other municipalities. I usually say that you should have the right product at the right time. And it is clear that it is also the right type of wood at the right time. Being able to make the right assessment of wood impregnation is also a basis for choosing the right product. I'll give you a little bigger idea of what this is really about. Sweden's surface is covered by forest. 70 per cent of Sweden's surface is covered by forest. It is clear that all this forest is not as good, but there are different qualities. But I think it shows that we have potential that other EU countries may not have, and we must seize this potential. I said that the forest is Sweden's gold, but I mean there's something we have here – something that's free, something that we can actually refine and something that we can build our industries on. Then it is important how the Minister and the government sees that industry in Sweden so that it does not get harder to handle in the EU without it being allowed to live and thrive. In fact, 80% of forestry products are exported, and much of them go to Europe's countries. It is therefore extremely important that we are a strong voice for the forestry industry in the European Union. I hope the Minister will take this on board. 120 000 people are employed in this industry in Sweden. So few people are not. The minister was talking about labelling. If you label wood products according to NTR, it is a label that the industry knows about. Those who choose wood also know what it means. I think it's pretty good. But I did not understand if the Minister thinks that there is enough knowledge around Sweden today to enable the necessary decisions to be made so that it becomes equivalent throughout Sweden. I understood that the Minister meant looking forward and trying to create this. But I do not know if the Minister agreed with me when it comes to my view that knowledge in Sweden is unequal and that companies are treated differently. Then I did not understand if the Minister thinks it is good that we increase the use of wood in Sweden and that we increase the use of impregnated wood in Sweden. If the Minister thinks so, we should in some way have a common view of the need to raise awareness of the progress made in impregnated wood.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-267	Madam President, I would like The answer to the last question is a clear yes. We want to increase the construction of wood from the government's side. We believe that this is an important solution for reducing climate impact. It is usually said that about 20 per cent of Sweden's climate impact comes from the construction sector in a broad sense. Then it is clear that a very important way to reduce this environmental burden is to choose climate-smart materials. And wood has many good advantages. For example, wood is often what occurs in industrial production when, for example, components are built in a factory and then only assembled in place. There is thus a potential for improving the efficiency of construction and reducing building defects and also for putting pressure on construction costs so that construction can be built quickly and efficiently and at a lower cost. So there is no doubt that this is also the Government's ambition. However, it is also important to point out that there are several different environmental problems that have been linked to impregnation plants. These include emissions to soil and water and the handling of scraps and excess residues. Many wood preservatives are still toxic and can cause damage to aquatic organisms, for example. They are also often persistent and remain in the environment for a long time. This is why they are used, for example, to protect the wood from being attacked. The government has set aside a decontamination allowance to clean up contaminated areas. It can be said that we have cleaned 128 of the most polluted areas in Sweden and that most of the objects that have been granted funding have been objects in the sawmill and wood protection industry. There are 37 different areas that have been decontaminated with public funds. This is therefore a historical problem which we must be aware of. Then we will encourage technology development in many different ways and use better materials in the future, but we cannot forget that wood protection and impregnation also have environmental effects that we must take seriously. In terms of improving supervision and ensuring its consistency, work is ongoing. The Swedish Chemicals Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency participate in the work within the EU on environmental regulations and supervision. The Swedish Chemicals Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards also have a responsibility for supervisory guidance in accordance with the Environmental Code. This includes both providing support and coordinating as well as monitoring and evaluating supervision. There are several good examples of enforcement projects that have been carried out to provide better knowledge, not least among traders. This, in turn, can help consumers in their choice of materials, so that people choose what is best adapted for each occasion. This can reduce the risk of harm to human health and the environment. In connection with a monitoring project on biocidal products carried out by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the municipalities in 2019, an industry dialogue was also held with the aim of finding a solution for the labelling of wood-preserved timber sold in bulk. Swedish wood protection has now also updated its labelling system to meet the requirements of the EU Biocidal Products Regulation, and the system is currently being put into service in the marketplace. Thus, while we are talking, work is under way to improve and make supervision more general and uniform. We seem to agree that we need to create good conditions for building wood and that we have a work in progress to create well-functioning supervision and clarity that allows both professional builders and individual consumers to do the right thing.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-274	Madam President, I would like If we are in favour of a society that is growing – that we have more people, more factories and a new infrastructure – then we are faced with a choice when building it: What kind of products should we use? I believe that one cannot choose something that does not make an impact on the environment without the question being which makes the least impact on the environment. I think that impregnated wood has made such a journey that in many cases you could choose it instead of something else. That is why I believe that we must ensure that the information and knowledge about what today's impregnated wood actually means is out there. I do not mean that it does not make any impact on the environment, because it does. We are going to make high demands on it, and we are going to make sure that it is the same rules throughout the European Union. But we also have to face the truth, that is, choose the right material at the right time – and I think there are more occasions where impregnated wood is actually the right material. I'll give the minister a tip he can take with him. It is about how we can use wood in a better way and increase the production and use of wood quite a lot in Sweden. We can allow the construction of small houses to increase significantly in Sweden. For wood is used there; 90 percent of all houses are built in wood. In this way, we would use the wood within the country – there would be no long journeys for it – and we would make the renewable gold flourish again. Nevertheless, I think we have a consensus that this is something we must continue to work on. I think it is extremely important for the future.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-278	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good discussion, Larry Söder! I also thank you for the tip. It is important to remember that it is the municipalities that have planning responsibility and the planning monopoly and that it is the municipalities that decide which land is set aside for, for example, small-scale buildings or multi-detached buildings. However, it is important that we encourage the builder to choose the best environmental materials, whether in small or multi-residential buildings. There, wood has a very big advantage. I appreciate Larry Söder raising the challenges of having the same conditions and supervision both within the EU and within the country. I note that work is under way between our authorities and between the countries of the European Union to create, as far as possible, a level playing field and a level playing field for Swedish producers compared with producers in other countries.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-281	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I have taken any initiative for an overall analysis to review the effects of whether the extensive wind power industry in Sweden affects our ecosystems and our biodiversity and whether I have initiated or intend to initiate more research to study how animals react in the long term when wind turbines are built. Let me begin with the fact that, following a government proposal, the day has adopted the target of 100 % of electricity generation being renewable in 2040. In recent years there has been rapid technological development in the wind power sector, and costs have fallen. Wind power is now expanding sharply, and I expect that further expansion will help to make the climate transition possible. Through electrification of transport and industry, fossil fuels can be phased out so that we have net zero emissions in 2045. As regards the question of the analysis of impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity due to wind power establishment, this is done at local level by the County Administrative Board and the Environmental Assessment Delegation in connection with the permit assessment. Unwanted and unacceptable effects of wind power installations shall be identified and analysed in the permit process and shall form part of the decision-making basis. As regards the question of whether research is being carried out to study how animals react in the long term when wind turbines are being built, I would refer to the research programme Vindval. It has been going on for many years and covers the influence of wind crafs on people, nature and the environment. The programme is a collaboration between the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. In addition to previously implemented projects, funds have recently been granted for the Wind Power projects and unforeseen impacts on species and their habitats, as well as Wind power and bats. The wind turbines now planned and built are completely different from those built 10, 15 or 20 years ago. They make less noise and affect less. They produce more electricity, because they are constantly becoming more efficient. This means that you do not have to build as many to get equal production, which means that conflicts of interest can also be reduced. It is also well known that there will be quite a lot of rejections of projected wind turbines around Sweden, at sea and on land, precisely because they make the assessment that other interests outweigh – for example unbroken mountain ranges or untouched natural forest areas. The government has shown that we can combine more renewable energy with more protected nature. Through the work we have done, we have succeeded in both of these things. We have received investments of 100 billion in wind power only in recent years. These are fantastic investments that also push down electricity prices and make the industry competitive and can make these amazing leaps forward. Since 2015, more than 1,000 new or extended nature reserves have been established. Finally, I would like to point out that I intend to continue to follow the issue of wind power closely and to promote coexistence between wind power and other interests. I intend to exploit the potential of wind power produced electricity to make an effective contribution to Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-288	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We have had a debate earlier today, and even earlier, where I had very many questions and where we did not really have time to go into it. That is why there were several interpellations, I can also tell you who are listening. There are quite few studies that specifically measure how animals react when wind turbines are built, but just as with any other form of human impact, wind turbines risk causing damage to nature. In particular, animal life is affected. In addition to the obvious risk of collisions with flying animals, bats are also damaged by pressure changes around wind turbines, and fish are affected by underwater noise. There is therefore a clear impact on the wildlife of wind power. For animal life, a disturbance in general is dangerous, and the animals react in a similar way as when they feel threatened: prey reacts by fleeing while predators try to hide. Mooses, deer, reindeer and deer take refuge when they experience danger. Deer animals leave the immediate area while a wind farm is being built. Females are particularly sensitive during reproduction and there is a risk of reduced reproduction if the animals are disturbed. Large predators avoid areas where people live. Bears and wolves often lie and push or scare away. In the long run, a disturbance means a habitat loss, since predators have reduced surfaces to hunt and stay on. Noise from wind turbines can theoretically interfere with animal communication, and even visual impressions – reflexes, shadows, lighting and the like – can be perceived as disturbing for wild and domesticated animals. Madam President, I would like Then there's this thing with access roads. Of course, they provide increased accessibility for us humans. When wind turbines are built, one must somehow come up and be able to work with the plant. It creates roads that extend through the landscape and opens up areas that have previously been completely without traffic. Increased accessibility may result, in particular, in the disruption of reindeer or predators. New roads also mean that the landscape is divided and fragmented more. Right now there are debates and struggles about wind power around Sweden. Among other things, there is a great struggle in Jämtland about whether a large number of high wind turbines will be built both in Ragunda municipality and in Krokom municipality. The Minister was previously aware that the wind turbines have been developed. Yes, among other things, they get very much higher than they were before. In many places it is natural for people to live in harmony with nature's cycles, to house and to care for nature's resources with regard to the ecological system but above all for consideration of the next generation. I have asked the Minister whether the Minister has taken any initiatives for an overall analysis to examine the effects of whether the large-scale wind power industry in Sweden is affecting our ecosystems and our biodiversity. I understand the answer as saying that the Minister ducks for the question and refers to it being handled at local level by the County Administrative Board and the Environmental Assessment Delegation in connection with the permit review. Then the questions are: Where is the overall view? Where is the minister's responsibility for Sweden and our fantastic environment? Where is the government's responsibility for the precautionary principle?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-298	Madam President, I would like Overall view is indeed the theme in the government's environmental work and in my work as Minister for the Environment. It is important not only to raise individual issues, for example in an area where you are personally critical. One must look at where the major potential conflicts exist between, for example, climate and the environment and not just try to find reasons to criticise a particular activity or a special energy production method. It is important that we have knowledge when implementing changes in our society, for example when we are expanding an energy source such as wind power. This is also why we have ensured that there are resources not only to carry out research in Sweden but also to take in knowledge from other countries, such as those where wind power has been expanded considerably more than we have done in Sweden. It is well worth reminding us that in Germany there are about 10 times more wind turbines per square kilometre than in Sweden and that in Denmark there are 15 times more. Should it be the case that huge problems arise when wind power is being expanded, these should be well known in those countries, where wind power is so much more expanded and is located in so many more places. It is therefore important that we continue with research. However, as has previously been an environmental researcher, I do not think that we should direct the research and decide which areas the research should focus on. One example I would like to mention is the project Vindval, which is a collaboration between the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The project addresses the major questions that we need to answer and the great uncertainties that exist. That is where you should put your research resources, and that is what you have done. Wind selection has been ongoing since 2005, and around 50 different projects have been implemented to look at the effects of wind power. A long series of reports have been produced. Synthesis reports have also been produced, summarising the state of knowledge in one area, such as the effects of wind power on birds and bats or mammals on land. There is also a synthesis report on the effects of wind power on marine life. So much of what Alexandra Anstrell is asking for already exists. Then it may be better to go to those sources and try to develop knowledge through them. Over time, the call for proposals for projects within Vindval will be amended and developed. As far as I know, the themes that you focus on work well, and they meet the needs that exist. We will continue to support research. The government has set aside money in the budget to be able to invest funds in the research programme Vindval, so that you can continue to research. Even now, however, extensive knowledge has been generated about the impact of wind power on both humans and different animal species. It is a work that we think they need to continue to develop. If you now care about animals that are killed in society, it is of course important to look at the whole and not just at a single factor or niche, such as wind power. It is well known, for example, that eagles unfortunately crash with trains; they are on the tracks because there is food to access there. Unfortunately, power lines are also a cause of bird destruction. Again, I think that the interesting and important thing is the whole, that is, the impact society's activities have on, for example, animal populations. I can rather say that long-lived species are developing well in Sweden, much because we have overcome old environmental problems, such as environmental toxins such as ddt and PCBs. That is something that should be welcomed.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-305	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is only when you see the problems that you can do something about them. I have asked the Minister whether the Minister initiated, or intends to initiate, more research is being done to study how animals react in the long term when wind turbines are being built. The Minister refers to the research programme Vindval, which is great. The Minister also mentioned some countries and their research. However, he did not mention anything about what is actually in the research reports. Has the Minister not taken note of them? There are several critical reports from different countries on how microplastics are spread and how animal life is disturbed. We must also take this seriously. Wind power, like any other power supply, needs to be highlighted from different angles in order for us to be able to take responsibility for the future in the best possible way and ensure that we make the right choices for the future. Can the Minister say with certainty that we are making the right choice for the future with wind power? Madam President, I would like A Portuguese thesis on a horse breeder shows significant damage to the foals after wind turbines were set up near the farm compared to before, ceteris paribus. For example, most of the foals were born with a goat's head, which has never happened before. Of course, this is just a story and no research, but it is probably so important to think about. Should we not ensure that we get more research on the effects of wind power and learn from that research? Can't the Minister think of making a move – as he talks about in other cases – on this issue too, to do half-life to ensure that the next step will be the best for future generations?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-308	Madam President, I would like It is a bit funny that Alexandra Anstrell always comes to the same conclusion in all her interpellations, namely that we should halt wind power development. Whatever the issue or problem area we are talking about, it is always the solution to all problems. I would like to ask Alexandra Anstrell to try to focus and look more broadly at the environmental problems raised by Alexandra Anstrell herself, which I welcome. I think it is incredibly good when members of the Swedish Parliament are committed to the spread of microplastics and the problems of plastic littering. But it is even better if you look at the big sources and try to make efforts there. I eagerly await Alexandra Anstrell's next interpellation – about the major sources of microplastics. When it comes to wildlife, too, it is important that we focus on where the major challenges lie. There are many other reasons which are more likely to cause animal life to become impoverished and that we risk getting species on red lists, being threatened and, at worst, being eradicated. It's more about how we use the land – the forest and the agricultural land. Fragmentation of land is usually highlighted as such. It is also about, for example, how we use environmental toxins and chemicals and about our traffic systems. I would say that it is quite certain that wind power is not a very large source of a threat to wildlife in Sweden. However, this can be the case in individual places. This is exactly what the environmental test is about: when you get a proposal to expand wind power, it should be tested against other interests. For example, we have said no to the expansion of wind power in the areas of the Baltic Sea where porpoises are located, because we have jointly concluded that we should not take the risk that the endangered species will face further challenges from the outset. Everything that Alexandra Anstrell is asking for is already being done. It is also worth pointing out that you should put problems in context. It is usually said – it is a fairly broad estimate – that between five and ten birds clash with a wind turbine on average per year. Of course, the situation also has a bearing on how many birds are killed. There's too many. I'd love to see no birds killed by wind turbines. This would give you about 40,000 birds at risk of being killed by wind turbines. We have 350 million birds in Sweden during a late summer. In this context, it is not a major problem in general for the group of birds in Sweden and therefore perhaps not a reason to make the wind power expansion slippery. That is a rather far-reaching conclusion of that effect. If you want, you can make comparisons with other phenomena. I know Alexandra Anstrell is an animal friend. Cats are usually expected to take about twelve birds per cat per year. Since we have 1.44 million cats in Sweden, it could then be said that this problem is even greater. Now I am not any person who will want to restrict people's access to cats. If you want a cat, you should have it. But you have to be able to relate different social problems to each other. Here I can say that wind power can sometimes be challenging against individual populations. This should be taken into account in the environmental assessment and be weighed against, for example, other environmental interests. On the other hand, wind power is an incredibly important part of the solution so that we can get a 100% renewable electricity generation system and be able to replace fossil fuels with, for example, electricity. That is something that should also be welcomed by Alexandra Anstrell. Technology development is also ongoing. There are now systems for artificial intelligence and cameras to turn off wind turbines if, for example, there is a large bird nearby. Technology development in the wind energy sector is also ongoing here.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-317	Madam President, I would like If I send in an interpellation of many questions to the Minister, the Minister will be lulling over it, and I will send in an interpellation with a specific question, the Minister will be lulling about it. It is fortunate that I am not here to please the Minister but to try to improve for Sweden and try to get the Minister to take responsibility for environmental issues seriously. We use the precautionary principle in Sweden in many cases. This applies, for example, now in the case of vaccines that we should all take for covid-19. It is fortunate that not everyone was given the vaccine that is the most indicated. One wonders where the precautionary principle is here. We see that there are impacts on very many different areas. There are a lot of animals that are affected. The reindeer industry is also affected by the expansion of wind power. The reindeer avoid the area closest to the wind farm. This is demonstrated by, among other things, Vindval's research. The state has an overall responsibility for the survival of the reindeer industry. I wonder: how does the Minister intend to act to ensure that the reindeer industry and other animals, too, are not harmed and affected by the massive expansion of wind power? I don't need any more answers referring to cats or the like. Maybe they're not very common around wind power.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-321	Madam President, I would like Of course, we have an overall responsibility to ensure that we make a balance when we say yes or no to various proposals to expand society whether it is a road, a railway or a wind farm. There we have a responsibility to weigh all the different environmental and social aspects that exist, such as the reindeer industry. It is also a job that is being done. When considering proposals for wind power projects, these interests are also taken into account. I think Alexandra Anstrell knows that not all wind power projects are proposed as automatically yes. It is not the case that they are built regardless of what is said in the trial processes and what local residents think, but there are quite a few projects that are not. It is precisely because society finds that other aspects are more important in this particular case. From there, to the extreme that Alexandra Anstrell always lands in when we debate, that is to say that we should put a stop to wind turbines, make a moratorium and make a halt, I think is going far too far. That is to draw far too far-reaching conclusions from the issues raised by Alexandra Anstrell. We need to make a balance. It also includes looking at the fact that it does not only have to be negative for all species when building. For example, open land, new border zones or roadsides may also benefit some wild game species. It's not just that it affects in one direction. This can affect in several ways when, for example, an area of wind power is being expanded. My message is very clear. We should weigh different interests against each other. That is what is being done in the environmental review. This work should take into account the impact on animal life and biodiversity, but also, for example, the reindeer industry. There we devote our energies to developing research and knowledge in order to get even better guidance in those processes.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-326	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me a number of questions about road safety for hunting dogs. Creating safe wildlife passages on the high-traffic road network helps, among other things, to reduce traffic-related injuries to hunting dogs. It is the Finnish Transport Agency that assesses and decides on the choice of measure. Sweden is also the world leader in road safety with high goals and the vision that no one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic. There is a need for continued active work on these issues in order to achieve the objectives and ambitions. The infrastructure bill, recently submitted by the government to the Riksdag, provides the largest financial framework for infrastructure ever and, among other things, continued investment in road safety. Finally, I would like to remind you of the responsibility of dog drivers to be well informed about the rules applicable to hunting with dogs.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am perhaps not entirely satisfied, and I think that the Minister for Infrastructure had almost guessed already in advance. The answer describes measures with wild game passages over the high-traffic sections of the road network. It is ironic in view of the fact that, in order for a game passage to be necessary, there must be a game fence. Otherwise, no game passage is needed. If there is a game fence, there is also no need for many more measures to increase road safety for, for example, hunting dogs. I believe that, precisely from the point of view of the interpellation, the usefulness is rather limited when it comes to that particular measure. The Minister for Infrastructure then describes that a new national plan has been put forward and that it is the one with the most money ever. It is and has been true for all the national plans that have been put forward in a very long time. The reason for this is generally general cost increases, inflation and sometimes some increase in the level of ambition. The fact remains, however, that over the last six years we have slowly but surely built up an increasing maintenance debt on the state road network. There is also something about road safety issues. The Minister then concludes with a vague renunciation of the responsibility of dog drivers to keep well informed about the rules on hunting with dogs. The Minister for Infrastructure is very happy to develop what this is all about. It seems to me rather unclear what he is referring to. He'll be happy to clarify what he's referring to. It may sound like a special interest, hunting dogs and road safety for hunting dogs. But it does have to do with road safety. In a wildly dense country like Sweden, where we have constantly, at least in recent years, increased game strains and increased traffic accidents, hunters and hunting dogs have a very important role in reducing the number of traffic-killed game and the number of wildlife accidents along our roads – not just for the sake of the game, not just for the hunters and not just for the sake of hunting dogs, but for the sake of all road users. If you have been in a game accident, you know how uncomfortable it is and what the risks associated with it are. In the worst case, it can lead to death, not only for the game but also for those who are in the vehicle that clashes with the game. And then what? Well, then, a hunter comes to the scene... on a government mission through the police... who, depending on the situation, may have to release the dog to, in the case of a wild boar or an elk, set the game in order to arrive and finish. For example, in the case of a deer or other minor game, you need to be able to catch up and pull down the game in order to end and kill it in this way. Even these dogs, who do a direct community service on behalf of the state, are covered by the perspective of my interpellation. I am genuinely disappointed by the lack of interest shown by the Minister for Infrastructure with his very, very poor response to the interpellation.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-341	Madam President, I would like I am not the Minister for Infrastructure to please Erik Ottoson from the Moderates, but I am to ensure that we develop Sweden as a country, not least by ensuring road safety and investing in good infrastructure. When I then report that we are making the greatest investment in infrastructure ever – because it is indeed the greatest ever – it is interesting that the party of Member Erik Ottoson is proposing savings to Parliament. The Moderates want to reduce the resources that go to road safety, among other things. And surely it matters what resources we allocate to be able to set up wild fences or to make other trimming measures, as it is said, on the development grant that contribute to increased road safety. In that case, however, Erik Ottoson will probably vote in the Riksdag in favour of a proposal that would mean that the Swedish Transport Administration would have to reduce efforts to limit wildlife accidents, for example. The first question I ask Erik Ottoson is therefore: is it really reasonable to draw that conclusion if you are now concerned about wildlife accidents? The second is that I can, of course, appreciate the commitment to hunting dogs. I think it's important, and I have many of my acquaintances who are engaged hunters and have their own hunting dogs. What they say when I talk to them is something that I think all dog owners know: We have strict dog ownership responsibility in Sweden. If you are a dog owner, you have a pretty big responsibility to protect the dog and make sure it has good conditions to live a good life. You should also protect it in traffic accidents and from attacking other dogs or for that matter other people. So you have a very big responsibility. We will make – and we do – great efforts to improve road safety, avoid wildlife accidents and, not least, improve the conditions for searching. A fantastic volunteer work is being done among hunters and many others involved in making sure to help out when, for example, searching. But there is also a positive development. I don't know if Erik Ottoson is familiar with this, but according to Agrias's statistics, there is a clearly decreasing trend in the number of traffic victims or killed hunting dogs. For the period between 2018 and 2020, the number of injured and killed hunting dogs decreased by over 20 percent. This certainly involves a combination of efforts made by the Finnish Transport Administration, by municipalities and regions and by individual road managers. For we should remember that the hunting accidents that occur and the dogs that are injured in connection with it do not always occur on state roads, but it can also happen on individual roads, which form the main part of the Swedish road network. The second explanation could possibly be the Large Animal Detection – that we are getting better and better safety systems also in the automotive industry and in our vehicles. Volvo's Large Animal Detection is today an autobrake system that detects not only people or other vehicles in front of the car but also large animals or wild animals and therefore draws attention to this or even automatic brakes. I hope and believe that we get to the point where the system can also start identifying other things, such as larger dogs. That would be a positive development. Last year I think there were on average about 60 000 injured or traffic-killed animals on our roads. The number of hunting dogs of these is 233, and there are of course very many – too many. This is a combination of the fact that as a dog owner you have strict dog ownership responsibility and must make the necessary efforts and all the efforts we make to reduce the risks. But it costs, as I said, and it requires resources – and Erik Ottoson's party The Moderates want, according to the proposal they have put forward in the Riksdag, to reduce the funding for development and trimming measures by 30 billion.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-350	Madam President and the Minister. Let me begin with strict dog ownership. I do not think we disagree on that, but I think we might draw a little different conclusions from it. My conclusion is that when we have a problem with so much traffic-killed game and so many traffic accidents involving wild game, it can actually be – and is – a state interest to contribute to the best of our state's ability to try to help our dog drivers by ensuring that they can take this responsibility. All of us who have hunted with stray dogs know how difficult it is to get a dog to stop and cross-facing on a road when you are one or maybe two kilometres away and run for everything you have to stop a possible traffic accident. So that's how hunting happens. The government shakes its head here and whispers: So you're not even close! No, that's right; that's how hunting with loose dogs is done. It is entirely within the framework of the law, and it is entirely within the framework of what is needed for us to be able to control our game tribes. The fact that the Government expresses his concern about this by whispering in this House during my speech demonstrates and underlines the ignorance of how to limit and deal with game strains, how to reduce the number of traffic-killed game and how to reduce the number of traffic accidents involving game – not to mention the number of accidents involving dogs. I don't know what kind of dog driver the government is talking to who says you have to be near your dog when you drop it to hunt. That's not how it works. The Government is talking about road safety systems in cars that are able to detect potentially larger dogs. This probably doesn't make a large part of the hunting corps very happy. This applies, for example, to all those who hunt with a tax, which can hardly be regarded as a large dog but which constitutes an ethical hunting method because they do not rush the game very much. It is a form of hunting that holds down speed and creates safe opportunities for the game to end without there having to be any unnecessarily fast shots or other in the forest. I would like to point out that there are therefore simple measures that can be taken. The Government is aware of one of these. He could give a commission to Trafikverket to make it easier for hunting dogs and dog drivers to inform along our state roads through signs and other, perhaps even flashing lights in any color, that here there is hunting going on, and here there may be reason to lower the speed. The deer account for most or a very large proportion of the traffic-killed game in large parts of the country because they are decently stationary. They have home areas of between 10 and perhaps 40 hectares, and if they have settled near a road, they must therefore also be hunted near a road in order not to create problems with road-killed game. Finally, Madam President, it is not said that traffic searches are being carried out. It's called a traffic search. It is a legal term that the Minister of Infrastructure may need to familiarise himself with.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-360	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Ottoson – I really appreciate the commitment to hunting and hunting dogs! I appreciate less that Erik Ottoson as a Member does not give an answer to a question as to whether it is wise for the Moderates to reduce substantially, by SEK 30 billion, the resources of development funding and trimmings and environmental measures. That is what could mean more resources for, for example, wildlife fences, and I still believe that Erik Ottoson is in favour of this type of effort. I think it may be important to reduce the number of wildlife accidents. I mentioned earlier the number 60 000 animals killed by traffic on our roads, including 233 hunting dogs. It is, of course, serious but, fortunately, a proper reduction, according to Mrs Agria, a 20% reduction. There are certainly various reasons for this, both that we are now making more efforts to protect road users and, I believe, increased safety awareness and technological development of our vehicles. Then, of course, it is important to point out, although I understand that Erik Ottoson thinks it is hard work, that it is a strict dog-owner responsibility. We're not getting away from that. Whoever has a dog has a responsibility for the dog. This applies in hunting situations, and it applies in all other contexts. Then one must ensure that one can take that responsibility. Otherwise, it is: In accidents that occur, it is you as a dog owner who has a responsibility. That's what the rules say. I think it is important to recall this too. It is important that we – and this is within the framework of the zero vision work – design the infrastructure in a way that means that we get fewer injured and killed in traffic. Now the zero vision is aimed at limiting the number of injured and killed people, and we are now in a position where we have the lowest number ever due to a very successful work in Sweden – but also thanks to a successful work in the Swedish automotive industry, where we have worked to create increasingly safer vehicles that can brake and stay in good time. It is also a question of adapting speed to the current road law and that now, at an ever-increasing rate, cars are actually coming to communicate with each other and making sure to inform about things that are happening along the way. I am therefore optimistic about road safety. I think it is important that we continue to ensure that we can have wildlife fences along our roads and in other ways ensure that there is a safe traffic environment so that the vehicles arrive. But I am also, of course, concerned that hunting can work well. There, dog owners have strict dog ownership responsibilities, and we shall of course ensure that there is as good a collaboration as possible, not least with the National Viltolycksrådet, which works incredibly successfully on this.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-366	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by informing the Minister for Infrastructure that interpellations are part of the parliamentary control over the government and not vice versa. After the 2022 elections, he can interpel me or some other moderate of our politics. For the time being, it is he who has been examined by the Riksdag and not the other way around. Let us begin by concluding that the Government chooses to put a great deal of emphasis on the strict dog ownership responsibility, which none of us really think there is. On the other hand, I would like to think that the strict dog ownership responsibility in a community-friendly business needs support and help from the general community. In reply to me, he completely rejects the question of the possibility of taking the initiative for hunters and dog drivers to be given the opportunity to inform on state roads and does not even mention it later in the debate, even though I raise it and ask about it. I do not understand that you should not be allowed to put up a sign along a state road where it says, Hunting is going on, loose dog, without running the risk of a roadman passing by and picking up the sign and in the worst case, if the sign can be attached to the one who has set it up, tolled and have to pay the cost of transporting the sign away. I understand that this is a government decision, but it is actually the case that the authorities are governed by the government. The government can lay down a mission to promote increased road safety and the opportunity to inform about hunting along our state roads. It is within the authority of the government to do this to its authorities. I regret the lack of commitment. I was hoping for more. I'll have to conclude that there might be a follow-up. Maybe it's necessary, too, because this isn't really good enough.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-371	Madam President, I would like As I said, I appreciate the commitment. If Erik Ottoson, Madam President, is now committed to putting up signs, perhaps it should also be expressed a little more clearly when the questions to the government are formulated in the future. Although it is true that Members of Parliament should not have to answer to questions from the Government, I still find it interesting that Erik Ottoson does not respond with a word to the fact that the proposal that he and the Moderates will vote for in the Riksdag represents a significant reduction in the resources for this type of effort. I believe that we need more efforts both for road safety and for the development of the Swedish transport system. The development grant includes new investments in both rail and road, as well as trimming and environmental measures which thus improve road safety. There, Madam President, the Moderates want to cut by over SEK 30 billion. Of course, all Members of Parliament have the opportunity to vote in favour of various proposals and can do as they wish in this context. There is, of course, also that possibility for Mr Ottoson. As I said, I have nothing else to add but that I appreciate the work of the National Viltolycks Council. I think it's very important. I also think it is important that we can continue to increase road safety in Sweden, and we do. An important part is what Trafikverket does with setting up wild fences and designing the traffic environment in a safe way. Another is the strong voluntary commitment that exists. A third, as has been the case here, of course, is that we then make sure to protect not least dogs from coming up on roads where vehicles drive at very high speed.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-375	Madam President, I would like Charlotte Quensel has asked me whether I intend to work towards reducing or suspending the congestion tax. Charlotte Quensel has also asked me whether I believe that the congestion tax has a reducing effect on the number of people who use cars as means of transport to and from work. The congestion tax generally contributes to moving over trips to public transport and reducing queues during peak hours. The pandemic has required special consideration in order to reduce the total number of trips to and from work. Working at home at home has been central to reducing congestion. The government has also proposed that the regions be provided with funds to maintain the capacity of public transport during the pandemic. In order to facilitate, for example, health professionals, the temporary tax exemption for the benefit of free parking in connection with the workplace has been extended. The possibility of free parking is something that several regions around the country have requested around the hospitals. It also applies in 2021. In addition, the Government has introduced requirements for disease control measures in long-distance public transport, which means, among other things, that the number of passengers on the means of transport should not exceed half of the seats of the means of transport. Finally, the increased labour costs that followed in the pandemic have been of different kinds. It can be because of a changed way of travel or a need to buy technical equipment to work at home. The costs involved vary across the country, but they are costs that are normally not deductible in the declaration. Therefore, the flat-rate compensation proposed by the Government in the form of a temporary tax reduction for labour costs of up to SEK 2,250 per year is also a relevant measure in this context.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-380	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for taking the time to respond to the interpellation, despite the extremely high workload caused by the pandemic. There are other ministers who have postponed their answers until September. In his reply, the Minister of Finance provides a number of measures that have been introduced during the pandemic. It is a type of proposal that has had broad support in the Finance Committee and in the Riksdag, although the Swedish Democrats have wanted to go further than the government on some of the issues. One example is support for regional public transport in order to maintain capacity and, if necessary, expand it in order to avoid congestion. These measures have been good, but they are not the ones we are discussing today. Today it is about the congestion tax. As the Minister of Finance admits in his reply, the purpose of the congestion tax is clear: to shift car journeys to public transport, especially in rush hour, in order to reduce queues. During the pandemic, the tax has been problematic. Queues are less of a problem than congestion in public transport if the aim is to reduce the spread of infection, thereby reducing the number of severely ill people and the number of people who even die in this pandemic. The government's communication to companies and employees has been clear: Those who can work at home should work at home. This in itself should have reduced the number of cars on the roads in rush hour and thus reduced the need for a tax to limit queues. Making necessary journeys with your own car should reduce the spread of infection compared to the same trips in public transport. The Minister of Finance also raises the temporary tax reduction, and it should be pointed out in this context that it does not include, for example, pensioners who, as a result of the pandemic, have incurred increased travel costs. As I see it, the temporary tax reduction is more of a patch on the wound. This reduction does not create any incentive whatsoever for using alternative modes of transport to public transport. Last spring we received constant alarm reports of overcrowded buses and trains here in Stockholm, and on 20 May we could read that Sweden had the highest spread of infection in the EU – a first place that nobody wants to hold. Facilitating motorists to use their cars to reduce the spread of infection should be a modest price during this pandemic. As we seem to agree that the abolition of the congestion tax would reduce the pressure on public transport, I wonder why the Minister of Finance has opposed lowering or stopping it during the pandemic.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-387	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that those responsible for public transport ensure that they continue to drive buses and trains, although there are not as many passengers as they normally are. We received very worrying alarm reports about this, not least from the moderate-led Stockholm region where they started by reducing frequency in the middle of the pandemic. That was, of course, very unfortunate. Therefore, the government has also contributed large amounts of money to those responsible for public transport so that the frequency of flights can be maintained even though ticket revenues are falling. This, of course, makes transporting passengers more expensive. It is to be welcomed that we have also received support for this in Parliament. As I said, it is of course the case that individuals working during this pandemic have been able to have increased labour costs in different ways. It can be about congestion tax expenditure for people in the Stockholm and Gothenburg regions who do not have the opportunity to work from home or cannot take their bike to work, but instead choose to drive on grounds of infection, which is of course a good thing. In other parts of the country, these may be other costs that have increased. It may be that people who live in sparsely populated areas and normally travel collectively now have significantly higher costs for taking the car and then need to drive a little longer, which of course increases expenditure on petrol. One might imagine that it could also be about pulling in faster broadband to manage to work from home. It looks very different in different parts of the country. In this respect, I think that the tax reduction that we have for increased costs under the coronapendem is balanced in that it goes to the whole country and not just to our metropolitan regions, because even in sparsely populated areas there has been an increase in costs during this crisis.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-392	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by reminding the Minister of Finance that it is the congestion tax that we are discussing today and not other measures. Many of them are very good, but it is the congestion tax we are talking about today. Last week, the government presented another supplementary amending budget, including the following text: The spread of the disease covid-19 continues. Dissemination has a significant impact on society at large, both in terms of individuals and private companies. Vaccination against the disease is ongoing but is far from complete. Here the government mentions that the spread continues and that it has a significant impact on both society and individuals. In April last year, the Swedish Democrats proposed that the congestion tax be paused under the coronapdemine. It was impossible not to see and experience congestion in public transport, and we considered, and still believe, that the abolition of congestion tax is a most reasonable measure to reduce the spread of infection during the pandemic. As the Minister of Finance knows, many people were infected last autumn, and the spring wave has taken a toll on both individuals and society at large. Would the spread of infection have been lower if more people had had the opportunity to use a car? Yeah. It benefits both those who take the car and those who do not have the opportunity to travel by car. The Minister of Finance also knows that a paused congestion tax would have resulted in more people choosing a car as a means of transport. It was precisely these arguments that were used when the tax was introduced at one time, i.e. that the tax would make motorists choose public transport as a means of transport instead of a car. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: does the government's resistance to motorists outweigh the will to combat the Corona virus, which has so far claimed the lives of over 14 000 Swedes, by all means?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-398	Madam President, I would like The situation would, of course, have been completely different if there had been some expert on the spread of infection who had proposed that we should remove the congestion tax, but that is not the case. The Swedish strategy has been based on listening to those who are experts in how to reduce the spread of infection. No one seems to have considered the removal of congestion tax to be a particularly effective measure. That's why the government has also been working on other measures. Among other things, it is a matter of ensuring that there is access to public transport when the number of passengers goes down so that it is possible to travel without excessive congestion. That is also why the parking benefit was not taxed last year or taxed during this year. The government has therefore taken a wide range of measures, but not just this one.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-401	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the information, Minister of Finance. I am a little upset when the Minister of Finance says that no one has proposed that it is worth pausering the congestion tax during the pandemic. We who travel municipally in Stockholm have constantly been told that it is good if we can choose other times and that it is good if we can choose other ways to travel in Stockholm. We know that by a person taking the car, at least one person is less likely to use public transport. If it has not been explicitly said to the government that precisely the congestion tax is worthy of pause during this time, it should at least have come up on the agenda. And if the rest of us can think about it, the government should also think that it is a good way to channel people from public transport for a limited period of time. Pausing congestion tax is not a matter of increasing or reducing labour costs. It is above all a question of working to reduce Sweden's spread of infection throughout the pandemic. The congestion tax is a measure that moves people from cars to buses, trains and subways. Since the spring of 2020, we should have acted exactly the opposite by helping people to choose the car.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-406	Madam President, I would like The government has taken a wide range of measures to make it easier for people who need to travel to work. The most important thing is that everyone who can work from home also does. The second has been to ensure good frequency in public transport, despite the fact that the number of travellers has decreased during the pandemic. The third has been to ensure that you are not taxed if you get free parking, which has been requested not least for health professionals. The fourth is the corona tax reduction that compensates those working in all parts of the country for any increase in costs during this corona period. There I would like to underline what I said earlier about the fact that it is not only in Stockholm and Gothenburg that you may have received increased costs during this period. In other parts of the country, too, people have incurred increased costs, for example if you have a long way to work and choose a car over a public journey. This government protects the whole country, not just our metropolitan regions.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-410	Madam President, I would like Johnny Skalin has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that citizens have confidence in fiscal policy and that weakened income from energy and environmental taxes should not jeopardise the conditions for financing solutions to key societal problems. Confidence in fiscal policy is maintained by the responsible design of fiscal policy. Reforms must always be financed so that public debt develops in a sustainable manner. Johnny Skalin's claim in his interpellation that the National Audit estimates that tax revenues from energy and environmental taxation have been overestimated by approximately SEK 25 billion from 2024 onwards. However, this is a misconception of the Swedish National Audit Office's report. What the Swedish National Audit Office says is that tax revenues from energy and environmental taxation will gradually be overestimated unless account is taken of the fact that CO2 emissions will decrease in the short term, including as a result of their taxation. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, tax revenues are therefore not significantly overestimated in the next few years after 2024, but only in the long term when CO2 emissions are reduced to a greater extent. I can also reassure Johnny Skalin that in the analysis recently published in the Government's Spring Bill, fiscal policy is sustainable in the long term. This applies despite the very strong measures taken by the government to limit the impact of the covid-19 pandemic and despite the fact that revenues from energy and environmental taxes are assumed to decrease in the long term in the way recommended by the Swedish National Audit Office. The long-term sustainability of fiscal policy is also shared by both the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs and the European Commission. They published their own sustainability assessments in February this year. However, these positive assessments risk being undermined by unfunded and budget-weakening committee initiatives, which that opposition pushed through earlier in the spring.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-415	Madam President, I would like The detention centres are full. Criminal matters are closed and piled up. The perceived security is far from what it should be, not least for women. We also see an increasingly alarming situation in terms of the security of our country as a whole. As far as the major crimes, such as shootings, are concerned, there is no other country in Europe that has a development similar to that of Sweden. Sweden stands out. Sweden has become Europe's Chicago. Here the gangs have been allowed to thrive for many years. Rape belongs to everyday life, and the theft tours have become something that all homeowners must relate to. At the same time, more and more young people are becoming more alienated. And public resources are being spent on people who have never set foot in the labour market. They may not even want to become part of Swedish society. They may also have weak conditions for learning the Swedish language, in order to be able to enter the Swedish labour market. How can we take seriously the ability of the Minister of Finance to solve key social problems in the long term when the government is waving away reports that show a declining tax base while allowing crime to grow uncontrollably? Over time, an escalating crime, a now elusive unemployment and exclusion while weakening public funding for what is considered to be counter-productive does not make Sweden any better. Compared to the government, the Swedish Democrats prioritise almost 33 billion more over a three-year period to Category 4 Justice. We are also pursuing a policy of banning participation in criminal organisations and of striking harder even against petty crime so that the gateway to serious crime is prosecuted. We're pursuing a policy to lock up the gang criminals. We want to introduce into Swedish legislation something that we call storage judgment. This means that the prison service does not release control of real criminals and dangerous elements after serving a sentence. We are also funding our proposals for a safer country. Madam President, I would like Sweden does not have to stand out. Sweden does not have to be the worst in the class. Sweden can return to being one of the safest countries to live in. However, in order to achieve this, we must, from the political point of view, be able to give priority to what we think is important. We must be able to see what comes in order to be able to act at the right time. That is why we must also invest in strengthening employment and reducing unemployment, so that people can both shape their own lives and create a meaningful life. It is today that we are laying the foundations for the reality we will experience tomorrow. We don't have to choose crime. We don't have to choose insecurity. We don't have to choose unemployment. Yet that is what the government chooses for us. Why?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-422	Madam President, I would like If Johnny Skalin is interested in discussing penalties, criminality and punitive measures, he is welcome to contact the Minister of Justice or the Minister of the Interior, if he wants to discuss police matters. The intervention concerns the long-term sustainability of public finances. I can state, having taken into account the comments of the Swedish National Audit Office, that not only does the government make the assessment that we have sustainable public finances in the long term. The same assessment is made by both the Konjunkturinstitutet and the European Commission.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-424	Madam President, I would like According to statistics from December, the unemployment rate in the country has risen to around 8.5 per cent. It is a level that is twice as high as structural unemployment, and it very much affects the finances of the state. It can also be compared with the government's objective that Sweden should have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. So the government has missed that too. Unemployment is now at levels that create long-term and structural unemployment and lasting suffering for people. In addition to human suffering, this leads to a long-term weakening of the state's finances. Bankruptcy record and unemployment record as a result of a pandemic followed by a municipal crisis pose challenges that the government must deal with and prioritise. If the report is not taken into account, which shows a lack of tax base, while we already have major challenges in the social debate, it creates less opportunities for dealing with future problems or problems that actually exist today. These are growing all the time, because the government is unable to prioritise its policy in order for us to be able to deal with the problems that people actually experience in everyday life. Municipalities' indebtedness has doubled over the last 20 years. They face major investment needs. Overall, the total loan debt of municipalities and regions amounts to SEK 726 billion, which Kommuninvest predicts will increase to over SEK 900 billion to 2022. Then we are approaching rather quickly the level at which the public debt is today. The state finances are therefore closely linked to the country's finances, i.e. in municipalities and regions. If we do not take account of the reports that indicate that we are moving towards the deterioration of public finances if we do not pull our heads out of the sand, there will be even more challenges to be solved in the future. If you don't see the problems coming when they come, you can't solve them either. As a member of the opposition, I therefore believe that it is a matter for the Minister of Finance to keep his head high, to see the problems that will and have the courage to act when they come. When we receive a report from the Swedish National Audit Office indicating that we will reduce our revenue, even if it is in the long term, we will relate to it. We will also relate to this in relation to the challenges and problems we face here and now.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-430	Madam President, I would like Of course, you should relate to the reports that come from the Swedish National Audit Office. After all, the Government sends a letter to Parliament about this. In this particular case, we have changed calculations according to what the Swedish National Audit Office points out. But even with these changes, the government, as well as the Konjunkturinstitutet and the European Commission, make the assessment that Swedish public finances are sustainable in the long term. Of course, we take into account both what the labour market looks like and what the situation in the municipalities looks like. It is possible that Johnny Skalin has some other insight that is missing in the European Commission, at the Institute of Economic Affairs and among the Ministry of Finance officials. If so, it would be urgent for him to contact these institutions, including the Ministry of Finance. Having said that, it is of course always important to pursue a long-term sustainable policy. Not least I myself have clearly pointed out in recent years the demographic change that is taking place now that the 40th-century generation is up in its 80s and the great need for municipalities to be able to employ staff for elderly care. Regions also need to employ health care staff. At the same time, we have the ninety-thalandist generation, which is also a large group, which is now coming up with childbearing age. This means that we will have to build preschools and schools. All of this will require increased state subsidies in the coming years so that this can be done. It is therefore important to ensure that it has a good tax base and employment policy is important. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that, in the midst of the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War, we now have a higher employment rate than when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, that is, more people are working. That said, you shouldn't sit back. A policy for everyone who is able to work is central to reducing the gaps in society but also, of course, to fund our welfare commitment.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-435	Madam President, I would like There are certainly more people working today. I won't argue with that. But many more also live in our country. That is why, as the Minister for Finance says, we have to build schools, retirement homes and a lot of different things. We must also invest in infrastructure, because it is also worn out when more people are part of Swedish society. That is why the employment rate must also be increased and unemployment must be reduced. We must take the reports that come seriously. I don't know how to interpret the Minister of Finance. She says that the state finances are stable and good, as the EU also agrees, as well as the Ministry of Finance, which is under the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, we have huge challenges, which I think the Minister for Finance agrees with. These challenges will not be reduced by more people coming to our country. They do not even get the place they deserve in Swedish society by contributing to and building the Swedish welfare society. For example, you can look at the municipalities' pension debt. It is more than SEK 500 billion. If it were to be included in the municipalities' balance sheet, 20 per cent of Sweden's municipalities would already be bankrupt today. The situation may get worse if we do not see the problems that come tomorrow here today. That is what I want to raise to debate. We need to take the reports and recordings that come seriously. We also need to see what has been done and what has not been done to then take the necessary measures to curb crime, strengthen employment and create a welfare society that also lasts over time. I do not think that this government is the best option for it.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-439	Madam President, I would like I said we have a higher employment rate. Yes, more people are working because there are more of us in Sweden, but there is a higher proportion of those in Sweden who work now than when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. This is not the first time that the Swedish Democrats are trying to show that it is only because we are more Swedes who make more people work. However, we also have a higher employment rate, i.e. a higher proportion of people working. That is, of course, a good thing, but there needs to be more. All serious assessors who review the Swedish public finances make the assessment that they are sustainable in the long term. Having said that, we shall of course take account of reports that are coming, and so has the government in this case. Even when we have taken such account, the assessment is made that public finances are sustainable in the long term. This concerns not only an assessment by the Ministry of Finance but also by the European Commission and the Institute of Economic Development. However, there is an obvious threat to the Swedish public finances, and it is the very irresponsible behaviour of the Swedish parliament, including the Swedish Democrats, who have now broken all the barriers to how to act. Suddenly, it has decided to propose a committee initiative and its own supplementary amending budget completely outside the ordinary process. Acting in this way is very worrying about the future. Raising expenditure and reducing taxes through various coalitions through the hopeful majority in the Riksdag is easy, but getting plus and minus that long-term go together is difficult. The formation of the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats has not shown that they are capable.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-442	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me whether I and the government are considering some form of deferred tax payment scheme and, if not, what other measures I intend to take to avoid a wave of bankruptcies when taxes on deferred payments are due. The spread of the new coronavirus has affected Swedish companies drastically. Since the outbreak, the government, the Center Party and the Liberals have presented historically comprehensive measures to alleviate, among other things, the effects on jobs and businesses. One of these measures is the possibility for companies to have deferred payment of the provisional tax, social security contributions and VAT deducted. The grace period already entered into force on 30 March 2020. An important objective of these temporary deferrals is to mitigate temporary liquidity problems for companies in the exceptional situation. As Jan Ericson mentioned in his question, this liquidity support has been of great importance to many companies. On 24 May this year, the Swedish Tax Agency had taken a total of approximately 187 000 deferral decisions regarding more than 49 000 companies. The total deferment amount at the same time was approximately SEK 52.2 billion. Of this amount, approximately SEK 21 billion had been repaid. The outstanding deferment amount thus amounted to approximately SEK 31 billion. The scope for temporary deferral has been extended on several occasions, and the regulatory framework has been continuously adapted to the evolution of the pandemic and its effects. One example is the possibility of extending the grace period which came into force in February of this year and which means that the grace period can be no more than two years, instead of one year that has previously been in force. In this respect, it should be noted that a taxpayer may itself choose to repay all or part of the amount of the deferral during the period of grace. The period of grace can thus in itself be used as a kind of payment period. The Government continues its efforts to continuously analyse the need for measures and to monitor developments closely. The government has continuously demonstrated during the pandemic that it is prepared to make the necessary decisions.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-447	Madam President, I would like It is true that we have had quite a consensus in the Committee on Finance and the Riksdag on many of the crisis measures during the pandemic. But when the Minister of Finance in his reply boasts of all the government's actions to save entrepreneurship and jobs, it sounds a little false. During the pandemic, the Moderates, alone or together with others, have presented some 20 initiatives in which we have managed to bring together majorities in the Finance Committee and the Riksdag. On a number of occasions, the government has also presented its own proposals in line with our initiatives before taking decisions in the Committee on Finance to avoid defeats in the Committee on Finance. Of course, we Moderates are pleased that we have been able to influence the policies and the various amending budgets so much. But the reason we have had to take the initiative and speed up matters is because we have seen that the government has not taken the necessary initiatives. One of the issues where the government actually acted quickly was the proposal to defer tax payments in order to strengthen the liquidity of companies during the crisis. The reason why the government could act so quickly was that this proposal was ready in the drawer since the Alliance's handling of the financial crisis. That is when we introduced this possibility, and now that solution could be adapted and reused even during this crisis. On the other hand, we moderates reacted to the government's desire to charge excessive interest on tax deferrals. To charge much higher interest rates than the government's own borrowing cost felt like an attempt to snort heavily affected companies during the pandemic. On 25 March last year, the Moderates launched a committee motion in the Finance Committee calling for a reduction in interest costs for deferred tax payments. The Swedish Parliament's majority supported our motion, and on 17 April the government announced that it halved the interest on the deferment amount. On 12 January this year, the government proposed an extension of the possibility of a tax deferral. At the same time, an increase in the interest rate on the deferral was proposed. On 21 January, the Moderates presented a new proposal for a committee initiative calling for a reduction in interest costs. This time too, the Parliament supported our proposal. It is therefore due to the Moderates that companies do not have to pay usury interest on tax deferrals. The government, on the other hand, showed that it did not realize the absurdity of the state making big money by deferring the tax during a crisis. Madam President, I would like I and the Minister of Finance agree on one thing: the tax deferral system has been valuable – it has saved both businesses and jobs. The tax deferral model was thus derived from the Alliance's crisis policy during the financial crisis, when the moderate-led government developed this model. The use of this opportunity is what I understand far greater in this lengthy crisis than it was during the financial crisis. But there is one problem: one day these taxes will be paid. It will not be easy for companies that still have a significant decrease in revenue and turnover to start paying current taxes while paying off the tax debt as a result of previous deferrals. If everything is required into its entirety by the companies that have been rescinded, a dramatic wave of bankruptcies awaits the country, which is hitting small businesses and jobs hard. And then the suspension of tax payments has been completely in vain and has only delayed the failure of companies for a few years. The government must provide information on a reasonable repayment plan for companies that have been deferred with their taxes. Giving companies a plan over a few years to pay the taxes they have been deferred would give companies a reasonable chance to do their job properly, reduce the risk of bankruptcy and reduce the risk of redundancies. At the same time, the State would save large sums of money to avoid paying wage guarantees to those who lose their job in a business failure, and at the same time the State would collect taxes instead of losing them in the event of bankruptcy. A payment plan would save both business and jobs and be a good deal for the state. Does the Minister of Finance not see the problem? Does she not share the concern for a growing number of bankruptcies if tax deferrals are being enforced too quickly?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-456	Madam President, I would like We have repeatedly shown that we are following developments very closely and, of course, are prepared to adapt policies to the state of development. That is why, among other things, we extended the grace period from 12 to 24 months. In the same way, of course, this time too, we will follow developments very closely and come back if we see the need to extend the grace period. There is quite a lot of time until then because it is only next spring that the grace period expires. We are, of course, following developments very closely. It is quite correct that just deferment was something that was used during the financial crisis, and it was very good that we could pick that proposal out of the drawer. However, during the financial crisis, the Alliance applied the interest rates that Jan Ericson now calls usury rates. If you now think it was an usury interest, why did you use it during the financial crisis? Having said that, there are, of course, completely different possibilities for governments to remove the toolbox in the face of the next crisis because it has become much larger during this crisis.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-459	Madam President, I would like With regard to usury interest, during the financial crisis we had a completely different interest rate situation in Sweden. The cost of borrowing was completely different from that of the government today, when, in principle, it was possible to borrow at zero interest rates. It is therefore not possible to compare this at all. Today the interest rate is basically zero for the state, and then high interest rates should not be charged by companies for tax deferrals. But, Madam President, when the Minister for Finance gives me a non-answer and just talks about monitoring developments closely, I am concerned. Furthermore, when the Minister of Finance states in his reply that during the pandemic the government has continuously shown that it is prepared to take the necessary decisions, it is almost a little provocative. I pointed out in my previous speech how badly and tone-headed the government has acted with regard to the interest on tax deferrals. However, there are also other examples where the government has shown a lack of commitment or has presented poorly thought-out crisis measures. Support for individual traders is a good example. It was proposed by the Moderates in June 2020, which led to a mission from the Riksdag to the Government before summer 2020. But nothing happened throughout the summer, and we Moderates were forced to call the Finance Committee to an extraordinary meeting on August 20th to find out why nothing happened. Had the government taken a vacation in the middle of the crisis? Not until November did the Government's proposal for turnover aid to individual traders. So it took six months from the time they received the assignment from the Riksdag. There are more examples. My view and that of the Moderates is that the government has too often delayed too long with the measures required, and I am therefore not at all confident that the government will act with the necessary force on this issue. I would therefore repeat my question, but in a slightly different way: does the Minister of Finance see the problem, and does she share the concerns of a number of business and professional organisations about a growing number of bankruptcies if tax deferrals are enforced too quickly? Is the Minister of Finance open to the introduction of any kind of payment plan for tax debts and deferrals? How else does she intend to deal with this situation? One day these taxes will be repaid. Extending the grace period by another year does not allow the toughest firms to start paying back. They need a period of grace for another year, which means that the tax debt will be even larger and then one day repaid. When can companies expect a clear response on the issue of payment plans? It is not, as the Minister for Finance says, ample time. For a company, long planning is required if you are to cope with such a serious situation. When companies are now considering whether to hold out until the pandemic is over, get companies back on track and save jobs or after all, unfortunately, have to go bankrupt, this plays a role. It matters a great deal that you know how the government thinks they will have the opportunity to pay back tax deferrals. Should it happen quickly or over a certain period of time, so that they have a chance to keep up? There is therefore not enough time, but a decision is needed relatively soon to create clarity and clear conditions for these crisis-stricken companies.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-468	Madam President, I would like It is rarely as difficult to make economic forecasts as it is during a crisis, especially now that the crisis is due to a virus whose characteristics we still do not fully know. In addition, it is difficult to make forecasts of the potential recoil. It is a bit unusual to have a crisis of this kind, where it is not really about fundamental structural problems in the economy but about a new virus. I believe that there may be a very strong recoil back in the Swedish economy, and that naturally affects how to look at an extension of the period of grace. It would not be a bad idea to know what is happening now that a larger proportion of the population is vaccinated before finally setting down its foot on possible further extensions of tax deferrals. We in the government have shown that we are prepared to act on this issue. Otherwise, we would not have doubled the grace period in the way we did now in the second wave. It is about being fast-footed and making decisions when you have enough information.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-471	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister for Finance. It is difficult to make economic forecasts when you do not know how a pandemic develops, what happens after the pandemic and how quickly the economy can recover again. But if this is difficult for the Minister for Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the state, it is nothing compared to how difficult it is for the small individual trader who has now lived with the pandemic for a year and a half. Many in some industries have seen their life's work completely destroyed. We know that many sectors have done surprisingly well, but we also know that there are a number of sectors where today it is extremely tough. It is those sectors that have the large tax debts today, and that is where they have been deferred. It is precisely in these sectors that there is the greatest concern about the repayment of the huge tax debt. Nevertheless, the Minister for Finance has to agree with me that if there is now an opportunity for tax deferral to save entrepreneurship and jobs and stop unnecessary bankruptcies in companies that are fundamentally viable well, it is foolish to knock away the bones of this excellent measure, which I think we both think is great. If people then pay back their taxes, it does not really cost the state anything, but it is a great liquidity boost. Then it is foolish to throw away the good effects by collecting taxes too quickly when the grace period is over. The extension of the grace period is one thing, but here we are talking about the repayment schedule for the grace periods that have been granted, and that is not quite the same thing. I have full respect for the fact that the Minister of Finance wants to wait a little while, but how long does the Minister of Finance intend to wait before she gives a reply? It is extremely important for companies to be able to plan. Otherwise, we risk unnecessary bankruptcies. It's a fact.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-476	Madam President, I would like I share Jan Ericson's view that one should not, of course, wait too long for a reply. We do not want any company to choose to go bankrupt instead of trying to fight a little more because you feel that you cannot handle the tax payment next spring. I fully share the view that there needs to be a timely response. From the beginning, it was only 12 months that could be postponed, but we have now extended it so that you can have 24 months' delay. We in the government have also shown that we are able to act on new information. I also share Jan Ericson's view that this is a good measure. It was very good that we could remove it from the drawer of the alliance government's crisis management. Secondly, I can see that crisis management in this crisis is very different from that of the alliance government in dealing with the financial crisis. The support we have provided to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies is of a completely different nature than during the financial crisis. Not least with regard to short-term lay-off, which has meant that more than half a million Swedes have been able to be on short-term leave instead of risking unemployment. This, of course, means that we also have quite different opportunities to get out of this quickly when the worst crisis is over. So there is a big difference in crisis management compared to the alliance years, even though this was something that we could remove from the drawer. That's very good.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-480	Madam President, I would like David Lång has asked me about the government and I believe that we are doing enough to resist the problems of smuggling goods from Sweden and whether we intend to extend the Customs' mission so that controls can increase and stolen goods can be stopped from leaving Sweden and, if not, what the government intends to do instead. Organized theft leagues are a serious social problem, and the issue of stopping theft leagues is very important. The most important action the government takes against the theft gangs is to strengthen the Police Authority. The police authority has the general responsibility and the general powers of law enforcement, and that is a good order. The government has therefore launched a historic initiative at the Police Authority. During the term of office, the number admitted to police training has more than doubled, and we are about halfway towards the target of 10,000 more police workers. In the future, many police officers are employed around the country. That means all the time high for the number of employees in the Police Authority. The Government has also appointed a Special Envoy against Organised Crime to coordinate the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' work against organised crime and to support Swedish law enforcement authorities. In addition, an investigation is currently reviewing the powers of the Political Authority in border areas. Of course, this with theft leagues is an important part of that investigation. In addition, we work actively and structured in various international collaborations. An example of a successful international effort is when the Police Authority detained 22 people in an EU operation that was carried out synchronised in several police regions in April this year. The action took place within the framework of the work of the EMPacts and focused on cross-border organised crime of theft. A total of 220 people were detained in various places in Europe. They are suspected, among other things, of various types of theft, such as theft of car parts and boat engines and burglary. The police authority collaborated in this effort with the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Kronofogde Authority, the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Work Environment Agency. That's how the work should be done. The main task of the Customs Department in law enforcement is to stop weapons, drugs and explosives from entering the country, and that is precisely what customs officials are experts in. The Swedish Customs Agency works risk-based based on its mission and is in place where the needs based on the Swedish Customs Agency's mission are greatest. There the agency also makes record seizures after record seizures. On the other hand, the fact that the Customs Agency and the Police Authority are to exchange tasks with each other does not seem very effective. However, each authority shall contribute its share. We have therefore submitted a proposal to the Riksdag to extend the Swedish Customs Agency's possibilities to intervene against crimes that are not covered by the Swedish Customs Agency's so-called criminal catalogue. It is important that the Swedish Customs Agency can act when the authority detects crimes in connection with customs controls, but it is only a piece of the puzzle in the work against theft leagues. Our authorities will work on the basis of their individual strengths and expertise, and together they will be able to achieve very good results. This has been demonstrated by the so-called joint government work against theft gangs, which will continue. This too is a piece of the puzzle in the work against theft leagues. Finally, I would like to comment on what David Lång describes as a slightly increased grant to the Swedish Customs Agency. In fact, it is the biggest strengthening of the Customs Agency in a decade. Since 2017, the funding has increased by 30 per cent, from SEK 1.7 to SEK 2.3 billion. During that period, the Swedish Customs Agency has been able to increase its workforce by 265 years of work, and another 100 years of work are expected in 2021. In addition, the spring amendment budget for 2021 proposes a supplement for the purchase of technical equipment for the Swedish Customs Administration's administrative appropriation.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-487	Madam President, I would like According to the Progress Report on Organised Crime 2020 of October 2020, the free movement of goods and services within the EU and for persons within the Schengen area is a weak point in terms of Customs' ability to monitor and control traffic to Sweden. The whole system is based on the naive notion that everyone wants to do the right thing and that everyone has an honest purpose. Unfortunately, the intention to facilitate legal trade across borders, on which I believe most parties agree and to which the Swedish Democrats are also in favour, can be exploited by criminal networks by, for example, transporting goods without pre-notifying them. As far as Customs is concerned, Customs' staffing is a vulnerability. That's what's a little bit of the stake's core in this interpellation. At certain times, places and flows there is a lack of staffing, which means that there are unmanned border crossings. In addition, there is cooperation, which entails an increased risk. Officials may then be subjected to threats or bribery or may even be deceived, which may result in them not wanting, daring or being able to take official decisions. There are also opportunities for criminal networks, when planning their criminal activities, to map the Finnish Customs' working hours and presence. The Finnish Customs is expected to handle all cases quickly, which makes controls more difficult and increases the risk of errors being committed. On top of everything, the Customs Service lacks important powers, such as investigating money laundering. Although there are indications of money laundering in almost all cases investigated by the Swedish Customs, there is therefore no possibility of investigating the money laundering suspicion itself. For many years, far too many years, Customs has been deeply underfunded. I am aware that it is not just the present government's fault. The former bourgeois government bears a heavy responsibility, as did the Social Democratic government before that. But between 2014 and 2019 the current government continued in the same style. Great immigration has also led to increased smuggling and the use of violence in order to protect one's criminal interests and territory. It is one of the reasons for the increased number of shootings, blasts and other things that we have now become accustomed to reading about in newspapers and watching in newscasts. In the latest budget proposal and the spring amending budget, the government has finally begun to raise funds. That is SEK 20 million in the spring change budget. It is rather small, but at least it is a small step in the right direction. At the same time, there have been proposals for increased powers for the Customs Agency. In both cases – in terms of financial conditions and legal powers – it appears that the proposals are too weak to be close to solving the problems. My first question to the Minister for Finance must then be: will we see a sufficient increase in the appropriations for the Customs Agency? Then I don't mean just a list of wage levels. Does the government intend to increase the funding for a gradual increase in staffing and equipment annually – if the Social Democrats were to remain in power – for the rest of this decade? That's what I mean would be needed.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-495	Madam President, I would like I still have to turn against what David Lång says. He claims that it was in connection with this spring budget that we finally increased the appropriations for the Customs Agency. The government has increased funding since 2017, and we have made the largest increase in funding in a decade. It is therefore an increase of 30% overall. It is, of course, more than the usual price and salary recalculation, which takes place annually. The fact that we have increased the appropriations considerably more than this shows the fact that the Customs Agency has been able to increase its staff in the way it has done. 265 new workers have been hired, and another 100 are coming in this year. We have had a long-term perspective on the Swedish Customs Agency's work so that they can expand their authority. In addition, we have given special funding for the purchase of technical equipment, such as scanners. We will, of course, be able to come back in connection with the budget proposal this autumn when it comes to our assessment of the development of appropriations for the coming years.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-499	Madam President, I would like The lack of staffing and insufficient powers and therefore the hopeless circumstances under which the Customs Agency operates have also had consequences for the control of outgoing traffic. Foreign theft leagues rob Sweden of billions each year. The international gangs are estimated to be responsible for as much as 90 percent of all the thefts of agricultural machinery, boat engines and car parts and about half of all residential break-ins. The goods are then shipped out of Sweden and sold to a large extent within the former Eastern bloc outside the EU. At the border stand uniformed customs officers waving past these cars with stolen goods. There they stand and can't do otherwise, simply because they lack powers, equipment and sufficient staffing. It may be enough for the leagues to pass through customs just before the ferry leaves. Then customs simply has no time to wait for the police, and then customs officials can do nothing. This is something the government has promised to remedy in the past. For example, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson presented a comprehensive package of measures on 7 February 2018, as the government called it, to address the problem of theft leagues. And when Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson now finally presents a bill that will give Tullverket increased powers, it seems to be cosmetics again. In its opinion to the Ministry of Finance, the Finnish Customs themselves writes: ..................................................... The Customs Agency will only be given the right to act when they happen to find stolen goods in connection with checks carried out for other reasons. So you still can't actively look for stolen goods. So there will be no change at all in this area. Despite the fact that the government beats its chest in terms of increased appropriations and increased powers, it certainly looks like cosmetics, as I said earlier. In her reply to my interpellation, the Minister of Finance says that she does not think that the police and the Swedish Customs should exchange tasks with each other. But it's not about changing jobs. This is about the Customs Agency being given the opportunity to do their job. The Minister of Finance also points out that a recent strike has taken place in which 22 people have been detained through EU cooperation. The government likes to highlight such examples, but when this happens, it is usually because the police in other countries have the power to produce intelligence that they share with the Swedish authorities. Our Swedish protective authorities are still behind and will need to be prioritised. My next question to the Minister for Finance may then be: why does the government not want to extend the Customs Agency's mission so that they can actually control the export of stolen goods? Please note that it is not a question of exchanging tasks with the police! It's about giving Tullverket the opportunity to do their job. Why won't the government do what it takes to stop the theft gangs?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-506	Madam President, I would like The Customs Authority is therefore not the authority responsible for stopping thefts and theft leagues, but the Police Authority. It is their job to prevent theft and, of course, to take stolen goods, catch thieves and prosecute them. So these are the police's duties. Now it seems that David Lång believes that customs would do police work. I'm not sure that's the most effective. If I thought it would be an effective way to stop the gangs of theft – that customs took over the police's duties – I would of course have proposed it a long time ago. However, customs can of course assist the police. I would like to continue to expand the Police Authority, but I would prefer to see to it that the thefts are prevented so that they do not happen at all. Then, of course, the thieves should be caught and the stolen goods seized. David Lång also seems to assume that customs does not work intelligence-based. Customs has modernised its working methods considerably in recent years and developed its working methods. This means that intelligence-based work is now being carried out to a very large extent. It's not that you just randomly bring in people for control, but you work with the intelligence that you have. This, of course, makes it more efficient. We're getting more for our tax money. My assessment is that it is important that customs continue to work in this way, because this approach has really produced results. David Lång says that they have hopeless opportunities to do their job, but the truth is that customs make record seizures after record seizures. They have been extremely successful in their tasks, namely stopping weapons, drugs, explosives and other things from crossing the country's borders. The police also need to do more to stop our theft leagues. There is no doubt about that, and here the government also has a wide range of measures under way.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-511	Madam President, I would like Although the Swedish Customs Service has been successful in absolute terms, there is a great deal to suggest that they are nevertheless not very effective. There is still a great deal that comes in and that is transported out in the case of stolen goods. When it comes to the policy of the Swedish Democrats in this area, during the ten years we have been in Parliament, we have been the party that has invested most in the Customs Agency in every shadow budget. We believe that the Customs Agency's most important task in the next few years is to be able to participate forcefully in the fight against organised crime both independently and in cooperation with other law enforcement authorities in Sweden and in other countries. This is why we have invested in increased border protection for both entry and exit, control activities and law enforcement, as well as staff, equipment and premises. In order to strengthen the Swedish Customs' ability to improve their work effectively on all these points, we have provided more funds in our budget movements compared to the Government's budget proposals. Customs staff must be able to carry out random checks on outgoing traffic. It must be possible to investigate money laundering. Customs officials will need to carry arms to a greater extent than they do today, and it will have to be easier to search vehicles and more. In Finland, customs officials have the power to stop the exit of stolen goods themselves. Magdalena Andersson just pointed out that it is the police who have these tasks, but this can also be done in Sweden by classifying the export of stolen goods as a smuggling crime. In Finland, there is also a more developed cooperation between customs, police and border guards to prevent international theft gangs from moving across borders. My final question, therefore, is: Does the government intend to draw lessons from the handling of other countries, perhaps the Finnish example, of classifying the export of stolen goods as smuggling offences?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-517	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not want a situation in which the Customs Administration has less resources to spend on stopping the introduction of weapons, narcotics and explosives into Sweden. I certainly do not want to contribute to this situation. It is extremely important to stop organised crime but also to stop the influx of drugs and alcohol which are then resold in Sweden. I think that is extremely important to say. If you want customs to spend more time and effort on stopping theft leagues and taking over those tasks, you have to provide resources. If you now want to increase the resources to stop theft leagues, should you spend that money on police officers, who are trained and who are experts in fighting crime, stopping thieves and seizing stolen goods, or should you put that money at the Tullverket, who are experts in stopping the introduction of weapons, narcotics, explosives and other things to Sweden? The Swedish Democrats seem to suggest that work should be exchanged with each other and thus become much more effective in combating crime. That's not my assessment. If I had thought so, I would have done this a long time ago. We will ensure that we have a well-developed police department that has good tools to fight these theft leagues. Of course, the Finnish Customs will help where it fits, but it is still the Police Authority that must work even more intensively to stop theft leagues, for these are a major problem for the country.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-521	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I believe that the Swedish school is to some extent left-wing and whether I intend to take any steps to ensure an objective schooling for Sweden's students. The free formation of opinion is fundamental to Swedish democracy and is therefore laid down precisely as a basis for government in the first rule of government. Freedom of opinion essentially includes what is commonly referred to as political rights and freedoms and means a guaranteed right for the individual citizen to hold any opinions, to disseminate them and to try to convince others of their correctness. It is also clear from the form of government that all those who perform public administration functions in their activities must respect objectivity and impartiality. The demands for objectivity and impartiality can be summed up under the common concept of objectivity – a principle that applies, of course, to all teachers and principals at all schools, both municipal and independent. The requirements in the curricula for teaching to be objective and comprehensive can also be seen as an expression of the principle of constitutional objectivity. All parents should be able to send their children to school assured that children are not unilaterally influenced in favor of one or the other view. The school has a democratic mission. The training shall be designed in accordance with fundamental democratic values and human rights such as the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality and solidarity between people. All those who work in school should assert the basic values and clearly distance themselves from what is contrary to them. They mean that those who, as an example, oppose the ideas of democracy should not be allowed to develop their thoughts in their professional practice. As the Ombudsman pointed out in a decision, the scope of the constitutional freedom of communication and expression for civil servants is not unlimited(1997- 1867). Tasks and other obligations arising from the employment contract mean that the employee cannot always invoke his or her freedom of expression if he or she thereby fails to comply with his or her obligations. As stated by the Ombudsman in his decision, a teacher cannot take class time to present his private view of a political issue to the class. Madam President, I would like I have great confidence in teachers' ability to meet high demands for objectivity and impartiality and for them to be able to take good responsibility for the school's democratic mission.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-528	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the reply from the Minister for Education. As early as 2014, the School World in an article entitled Figures from Orvesto Enterprise pointed out that the teaching staff had a total of 53.1 per cent of respondents who said that they would vote definitively or perhaps vote for the Green Party and 34.5 per cent who would vote definitively or perhaps for the Left Party. There was a radical difference between the actual election result, in which the Green Party and the Left Party received more than 7 and more than 6 per cent respectively. In addition to this over-representation of left-wing sympathies within the faculty, only 5.2 per cent of the teachers were definitely or perhaps would vote for the Swedish Democrats, while the Swedish Democrats received 12.86 per cent in the elections. The school's left turn has also been repeatedly highlighted in other contexts. Perhaps the most rewritten is how Richard Jomshof, the current party secretary for the Swedish Democrats, was treated as a teacher during his time. Despite praise from the students, he was fired twice as a direct consequence of his party membership. Other examples of the theme include how schools in desperation have tried to lecture students after SD has received high support in the school elections. A principal has produced his own propaganda material to distribute to the school's students during school hours. Schools have welcomed left-wing speakers to lecture on, not least, the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like In my interpellation, I asked the Minister for Education, among other things, if she considers that the Swedish school is to some extent left-wing. Anna Ekström gives an extremely formal answer without actually answering the question about the Minister's own assessment of the obvious list to the left in Swedish education system. Anna Ekström replied that, according to the Ombudsman for Justice's decision, a teacher cannot use class time to present his private view of a political issue to the class. That is, of course, wise, Madam President, but it is quite clear from what I have explained and much more that teachers, principals and schools are persistently lacking in this. The latest example of the theme, which prompted this interpellation, was how the Kungshögaskolan in Mjölby tried to teach the students that SD voters do not believe in the value of human value / everyone's equal value. One teacher used an example in his teaching which said that if you believe in the value of human dignity you probably do not vote for the Swedish Democrats. How can the Minister for Education, in the light of his reply, in which the Minister himself highlights the fact that the form of government states that everyone who performs public administration tasks in his activities must be fair and impartial, yet, as the Minister for Education says, have great confidence in teachers' ability to meet high demands for objectivity and impartiality, despite obvious examples of this failing in Sweden's schools today?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-535	Madam President, I would like We have introduced new regulations on political information in schools during the last parliamentary term. The school's mission is characterised by objectivity and comprehensiveness, and it is extremely important that we pay tribute to this. The school's teaching should be free from the influence of a religious and political nature. The content and design of the teaching shall be owned by the school's professionals, teachers and principals. This does not mean that political opinions are not welcome in school, but that means that, in so far as they exist, they should be a conscious element of teaching. This makes it extremely important that we, as politicians, are extremely careful about and respect the fact that it is the teachers who decide on the content of teaching. Tobias Andersson's party colleagues obviously have difficulty with this. Both what took place earlier this spring in Lund and the interpellation that we are going to debate right after this are clear examples of that difficulty. What happened in Lund? In an e-mail to a teacher at Polhemskolan, Tobias Andersson's party colleague Johan Ohlin, who is the chairman of the municipal council in Hörby, wrote that he felt distressed by the teacher's unshaketed left-hand side. He compared the form of education to the old East Germany. The Swedish Democrat then continued to send an email containing the content that he will document future teaching and return if necessary. It cannot be understood as anything but a threat of action if the teacher in question teaches the facts and historical events that do not fall on the lip of the Swedish Democrat in question. This is the height of political interference in the comprehensiveness and objectivity of teaching. So my cautious appeal to Tobias Andersson is that he should think carefully before he throws stones in glass houses. Tobias Andersson has done a bitter compilation of statistics on teachers' party sympathies. It is an interesting question that Mr Andersson raises, namely whether the Minister considers the school to be left-wing and whether she wants to do something about it. On the question of the school's possible left turn, I think it is worth pointing out that the last three curricula have been developed by bourgeois governments. But it is interesting to think about what measures Andersson can bear in mind. Could it be a registration of opinions he's thinking? Perhaps he wants to see a register of teachers' party sympathies and regulate the Vice-Chancellor's responsibility for ensuring that the representation at each school is consistent with the latest election results. Can he want to remove objectivity and comprehensiveness from the curriculum? Perhaps he wants to see a new wording instead or that right-wing messages and the value of cultural and ethnic homogeneity must not be under-represented in teaching. That's what it could say in a portal sentence. Can he want opinionaries in the classroom, that is to say, people who intervene on behalf of the government if a teacher propagates a political opinion? Probably he himself realizes the absurdity of all these ideas. That leaves the question of what he has in mind. Does Tobias Andersson think that teachers should register opinions, and does he think that politicians should interfere in what individual teachers do and say when they exercise their mission to conduct objective and comprehensive teaching? I think that the knowledge that teachers have about the regulation that exists about objectivity, objectivity and comprehensiveness is closely linked to teachers' competence. Since I reject all the possible efforts that I have listed here, I think that there is a strong link between teacher training and competence and the possibility of objective teaching. To the Minister, it might be appropriate to ask: How do we get more qualified teachers to live up to the requirement of objectivity in teaching?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-542	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson seems to suggest that I have not answered the question in the interpellation. I will be happy to answer the question put by Tobias Andersson, that is, whether I consider the Swedish school to any extent to be left-wing. The answer to that question is no. I do not think that the Swedish school is to any extent left-wing. I therefore believe that the alleged problem is not something to be done about. I could refer to what Linus Sköld mentioned in his speech, namely that since 1980 we have had bourgeois-designed and decided curricula. Lgr 80 was decided by Minister of Education Britt Mogård, Lpo 94 was decided by Minister of Education Beatrice Ask and Lgr 11 was, as you know, decided by Minister of Education Jan Björklund. The claim that the Swedish school would be left-wing supports Tobias Andersson with a number of arbitrary examples. That is not good enough, Tobias Andersson, with a number of arbitrary examples. It is not good enough, Tobias Andersson, to pick out a number of examples from their own experience or some newspaper articles found and based on it build a claim that it would be a statistical truth. Furthermore, in answer to Linus Sköld's implicit questions, I say that I do not want to see any voice registration of teachers, and I do not want to see any records of which teachers have what opinions. I do not want to see any kind of control in the admission to teacher training either. I maintain that the wordings contained in the Swedish school curriculum, which deals with comprehensiveness, objectivity and impartiality and the wordings contained in our government form, are good writings. It's writing that we're going to live up to. Then the most important thing is the trust we should have in our teaching staff. The Swedish teacher who stands up in a Swedish classroom for the curriculum and the curriculum's wordings about objectivity, impartiality, comprehensiveness and free opinion formation should have the support of the whole society in the back.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-545	Madam President, I would like I am directly and indirectly ascribed to a number of views and opinions which have not been expressed by any other Swedish democrat, as I am aware. It is distressing, not least on the part of Linus Sköld, who wonders what we think about education policy. He's on the Education Committee himself, unlike me. It must be a touch on professional errors not to have a deeper understanding of it. It must also be interpreted as meaning that Linus Sköld has little confidence in his own Minister of Education, given that he himself needs to interfere in the debate. But enough about that. When I wrote this interpellation, I shared on social media an article about the event at the school in Mjölby. For the next 24 hours, I was overrun with examples from students and parents who have experienced exactly the same thing, in other words that their or their children's teachers, principals or schools have failed to maintain objectivity and objectivity. They spoke about how teachers regularly took up class time to present to the class their private view of a political issue, as the Minister for Education himself stated that the Ombudsman for Justice has said is wrong. The examples that were received often claimed that teachers failed to be objective and objective, not infrequently in connection with the teaching or the pupils involving the Swedish Democrats as a party. I have been given descriptions of and also pictures of school assignments and teaching materials as well as videos from recorded lectures, and I thought I'd give you a sample of them. I have evidence that the Minister of Education would be interested. A high school student shared a clip in which a teacher in class expresses the following about the Swedish Democrats: There is a party in the Swedish parliament that threatens democracy and goes against the values on which the school is based, namely everyone's equal value and equal rights. A student told me that his SO teacher had shown the Social Democrats election film and then argued for the party in connection with an election. Another student told me that his teacher had called his parents and accused him of being a fascist for expressing support for the Swedish Democrats in school. The latest example was given to me today by a student at Södertörn University who heard the following from his lecturer: If you are right-wing populist and vote for SD, you have problems having relations with women and do not see immigrants as people. Several young people have also described how teachers in school elections distanced themselves from SD and accused students who voted or intended to vote for SD for being racist. Even more have described that they have not dared to engage politically or speak politically because they fear that their teachers will then not judge them objectively and that they risk reduced grades due to their party sympathies. Some say that they have already been affected by this. Their concern is reinforced by actions like those on Gotland, where a principal sent a letter to guardians after students had worn SD's logo in connection with a square activity. The Vice-Chancellor has been criticized by the Ombudsman for Justice, but remains behind his statement and continues to be the headmaster of the school. Does the Minister of Education understand that conservative students feel compelled to remain silent in school or fear reprisals for their views in today's school, whether the Minister of Education personally perceives it as left-wing or not?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-557	Madam President, I would like I am well acquainted with the education policy of the Swedish Democrats. As mentioned, I am on the Education Committee. I also have a deep and blunt trust in Anna Ekström. That's what I want on the record. Anna Ekström talks about trust in the teaching staff as the basis here, and since I am so familiar with the education policy of the Swedish Democrats as I am, I know that the Swedish Democrats want to dismantle trust in the teaching staff in several ways. Firstly, the Swedish Democrats are acting to protect the current system, where students have become customers in a market. There is no better way to reduce the status of teachers and to reduce confidence in the teaching staff than to say that the teacher can change supplier at the very least. Then we move the power from the teacher in the classroom to the pupil and the pupil's parents. This is how the Swedish Democrats want to first dismantle teachers' status and confidence in the corps. To this you can add the examples that I gave that representatives of the Swedish Democrats, politicians, act to control the content of the education, what teaching materials are used and how to describe historical events, to change teachers' minds and to regulate the content of teaching in detail. There is no better way to dismantle trust in the teaching staff than to do these things. If I am wrong, Tobias Andersson, then tell me for God's sake what action it is you have in mind if it is not those that I suggest it may be!
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-564	Madam President, I would like I note that Tobias Andersson continues his catalogue with statements. It is a series of anecdotal descriptions of reality, surely experienced and safely known – deeply known – by those who describe them but collected through Tobias Andersson's social media accounts. It is not a statistical proof that Swedish school is left-wing. I also note that Tobias Andersson has obviously listened to my interpellation response, in which I carefully explained what the legislation looks like and what opportunities people in Sweden have to turn to law enforcement agencies of various kinds. We have supervisory authorities, the Ombudsman for Justice, principals and principals to turn to. We have a well-functioning system, in which we have stated in our Swedish rule of law how to behave as a parent or student if it is so that you feel ill-treated in school. Nevertheless, Tobias Andersson continues to demand some kind of information about what will happen to various different teachers and principals who have not behaved in a way that Tobias Andersson thinks is right. Madam President, I would like In Sweden it is politicians who make laws. But we politicians – whether in parliament, government, municipal council or municipal board – do not go in and tell officials how these laws are to be applied. Officials, in this case teachers and principals, do so on their own responsibility – their professional responsibilities. If we are then dissatisfied with the way in which the rules are applied, there are the principles of the rule of law to be applied. I am opposed to the attempts to constantly get me and others to speak about the actions of individual teachers and principals in the field of professional practice. I maintain, Tobias Andersson, that I have great respect for the Swedish teachers' ability to meet high demands for objectivity and impartiality. I can only hope that anyone who does not think that a teacher has done what the teacher should do with the rule of law that we have made available to the citizens. I also note that Tobias Andersson suggests that it would be some form of mistrust that Members of Parliament take part in the debate. In the same way as Linus Sköld, I would like to put on record that I think it is an advantage for Swedish MPs to take part in the debate. I welcome the debate that is taking place here in Parliament and would never dream of interpreting it as some form of distrust of anyone. Madam President, I would like Our Swedish school is important. Its mission is defined in a curriculum that is carefully developed. The curriculum we have now was developed under the leadership of Jan Björklund. The former is signed by Beatrice Ask, and the former is signed by Britt Mogård. Our curricula should not reflect any form of political opinion, party politics, but our curricula should reflect what Swedish children and young people need to be able to come out into society as individuals who can take the responsibility required in our society. I expect the Swedish teachers to respect that curriculum, and I expect the Swedish MPs to have it too.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-572	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Government for its answer. In fact, I can only say that I have reproduced the media information and decisions of the Ombudsman for Justice. I have certainly also devoted myself to anecdotal evidence, both on the basis of information that has come to me and on the basis of my own schooling – I am probably one of the few in this House that still has this relatively close in time. I myself remember how my SO teacher stood at the front and turned my back when I spoke and welcomed Jimmie Åkesson to Skövde Square in the election campaign ahead of the European Parliament elections in 2014. I have also campaigned at hundreds of schools where I have been met by principals and teachers who, one more loudly than the other, came forward and distanced from us, wanted us to leave school and described to their students, who had been listening to our book table, that they should not stand there, that we are racists and so on. If you have lived through this and in the near future experienced the situation in Swedish schools and if you also have regular contact with students at Swedish schools, I think it is very difficult to close your eyes to the fact that some teachers, some principals and some schools have failed in their objectivity and objectivity. I have full respect for whether it is the case that this type of record does not dim down at the Ministry of Education regularly, but when you write this off and say that it is completely unthinkable that there should be some kind of left-wing twist in school, there are a lot of students – conservative students – who experience this in their everyday lives that absolutely do not share the Minister of Education's view on it. If you want to get to the bottom of the problem and be able to completely dismiss the claim from me, the government should take the initiative to examine what it looks like in Swedish schools and not least to review whether decisions of the Ombudsman for Justice are actually being complied with in practice.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-578	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the Swedish curriculum, with its wording, is clear and clear. The Swedish form of government is also clear and clear. I can also note that the citizen who is dissatisfied with the way in which the school carries out his important democratic mission has both supervisory authorities and principals to turn to. I assume that the Swedish teachers live up to the high level of trust that they have gained with our government form and our constitutions. This is a trust based on the Swedish government's demands for objectivity and impartiality. That is to say, Madam President, I would like to thank you for this interpellation debate.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-582	Madam President, I would like Michael Rubbestad has asked me whether I think it is appropriate for a brochure such as Sex and Transit to be made available to children between the ages of 10 and 12 and what action I intend to take if that is not the case. Michael Rubbestad has also asked me whether I believe that the language used in the brochure is in line with the Swedish National Agency for Education's expectation that in sex and cohabitation the school will prevent the presence of inappropriate language and vulgar gender words in society and what action I intend to take if that is not the case. I would like to begin by stating that I and the government believe that sexuality, consent and relations are an important area of knowledge in teaching. In order to improve quality and strengthen equivalence in teaching, the Government decided in February 2021 on curriculum changes related to the field of knowledge in sexuality, consent and relations. The area is affected in several course and subject plans both in comprehensive school with corresponding school forms as well as in upper secondary and upper secondary schools. The aim of the area of knowledge is to promote the health and well-being of students and to strengthen their ability to make conscious and independent choices. The teaching in the field of knowledge will also contribute to understanding the rights of one's own and others, convey the importance of consent and include knowledge of power structures linked to gender and honour-related violence and repression. In addition, teaching in this area will contribute to developing students' critical approach to representation of relationships and sexuality, for example in different types of media. Madam President, I would like I can also say that the school has a great responsibility to contribute to the students' language development. The curriculum for comprehensive school states that education and education in a deeper sense is a question of transferring and developing a cultural heritage – values, traditions, languages and knowledge – from one generation to the next. The school should support the families in their responsibility for the children's upbringing and development. It is the vice-chancellor who is ultimately responsible for leading and coordinating the educational work at school and thus has the overall responsibility for focusing the activities as a whole on the national objectives. Decisions on the teaching materials and other materials to be used in teaching are made by the individual teacher or the headmaster. Today, therefore, a great responsibility rests on teachers and principals to choose adapted teaching materials that serve their purpose and are not in conflict with school teams and curricula. Madam President, I would like I have great confidence in the ability of the professions to take on this responsibility and to adapt teaching to age as well as to other conditions and needs that may exist with the pupils who take part in the teaching. The teaching materials and materials used in teaching and included in the education must of course be adapted to the age of the pupils. I note that RFSU has clearly informed in a press release on 19 April 2021 that the brochure Sex and Trans, to which Michael Rubbestad refers, is not addressed to middle school pupils. On the basis of the information I have learned, the brochure was not used in teaching, but was in the present case in a waiting room for student health at an intermediate and secondary school. According to the municipality, it has been available in a few copies in a brochure rack together with other information about, for example, occupational choices, mental illness, Bris and more. It is important that all pupils are given access to high-quality teaching materials adapted to their age. On 28 November 2019, the Government commissioned a special investigator to propose, among other things, what the role of the state should be as regards teaching material in Swedish schools. The assignment also includes proposing ways to facilitate the selection of suitable and accessible high-quality teaching materials. The report will be published in August 2021. Thus, work is under way to ensure access to high-quality teaching materials that can make it easier for teachers and principals to choose teaching materials. Madam President, I would like The State's school inspection is responsible for the supervision of schools and for compliance with the School Act. In cases where shortcomings are noted, the School Inspectorate has the opportunity to act so that all pupils can be guaranteed the right to a good education in accordance with the school's policy documents.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-591	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. I would like to start with something of a warning and mention that this interpellation is not suitable for individuals under the age of 18, if anyone is listening. My oldest daughter has recently turned ten. After the summer, she's going to middle school, fourth grade. Even though she has the greatest yearning for summer holidays right now, she looks forward very much to starting middle school and meeting all her friends again. Although we are still in May, she has already begun to think about what clothes she should wear on the first day and what summer memory she actually hasn't even experienced yet that she will tell us about when she comes back. But there is also some concern about the summer. Will we be able to go to Gothenburg and visit our friends who live there? Will we be able to visit Gröna Lund? Maybe, with a little luck, Skara Summerland? And is this perhaps the summer when little sister will finally learn how to ride a bike? It is actually that sometimes it is also possible to talk guy talk to me as a father, although she likes to describe me as a bit embarrassing. She usually comes back to the fact that I've been a guy once, so maybe I understand how killers think and think. Should you ask a chance, or how do you really know if you're together? Will that guy know he's special if she invites him to her birthday party, or how is she supposed to do it? It is precisely this type of thinking and very worldly problems that ten-year-olds and prospective middle school students should think about, but unfortunately it is quite other things that the middle school students in a school in Umeå have had to think about. Madam President, I would like I would actually like to read a few quotes from the folder we are talking about to show its inadequacy, but I do not think that the President would allow me to express these expressions here in Parliament. The concepts used in this folder are extremely rough gender words. It calls for anal sex as a good option because it is more gender neutral. The limit may be completely reached when you reach an entire section of the folder that tells you how a sexual intercourse is carried out with the help of a fist. Madam President, I would like I am immediately uncomfortable and uncomfortable just by mentioning these parts, so I really want to apologize for doing it from here in the speaker's chair. Those of us who are in this room today are adults, but yet this is very uncomfortable. How do we think it feels for a ten - year - old girl or a 11 - year - old boy to read about this? If my daughter had come home after the first day of middle school and told me about what she had read in this fold, I would have been extremely upset as a parent. And that's exactly what happened in another family. The parents were, rightly, angry, upset, and desperate. The fact that it received media attention and was also spread in social forums is not surprising. Swedish school should be a place where our children should be able to feel safe and secure, take advantage of the knowledge and get the language they need to do well later in life. And this folder works in the direct opposite with knowledge that is not at all suitable for this particular target group and a language that is probably never suitable, no matter how old you are. In her reply, Minister of Education Anna Ekström refers to the fact that it is the Vice-Chancellor who is ultimately responsible in the event that the Vice-Chancellor or the school lacks responsibility. She also refers to the School Inspectorate's ability to act. But it is we who stand here, neither the school principal nor the Swedish National Agency for Education, so my question remains: How does Minister for Education Anna Ekström intend to act?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-603	Madam President, I would like According to the organization Porn free childhood, the average age when children actively start to consume porn is twelve years. This means that many children start to look even earlier than that, i.e. in middle school. Unless adults talk to children about sex and things they are curious about, linked to their own body and sexuality, their only source of information will be porn. The adult world is not allowed to leave walk-over to porn. This is a fundamental reason why we have developed new regulations for teaching in the field of sexuality, consent and relations and that the field of knowledge is included as a mandatory part of all teachers' education. Children must be able to get information about what they are curious about, the right information, i.e. information that is both factually correct and relevant to the children's and young people's world view, and a guide to safe adults. We have chosen the way that the field of knowledge should be considered multidisciplinary and come again throughout the school period, from the youngest children's understanding that their body is theirs and no one else's to the slightly older children's understanding of puberty and sexuality and to the young people's opportunities to get a healthy picture of what sex is and how it is done. The opportunity to ask curious questions to adults who are safe and competent is crucial. Sweden's democratic moral panic rhymes badly with these ambitions. Banning only leads to kids being referred to porn, which gives an incredibly distorted image of sex, consent, gender roles and love. I would therefore like to say that it is of the utmost importance that Swedish democratic MPs respect teachers' right to choose teaching materials. Teachers have a much better idea of the need of the group and the competence to determine which tasks are right. Maybe students have asked questions about something specific t, maybe something has happened, maybe the conversational climate and understanding in a particular group in a certain way. Anyone who works to teach the children well should assess which materials are to be used, not Michael Rubbestad. I live with a school nurse, a specialist nurse with a focus on children and young people. She and her colleagues in student health care, both school nurses and curators, participate very actively in teaching in this area of knowledge, as they consider it to be an integral part of their health promotion and prevention mission. It is a careful balance of what the teaching should contain. It must anticipate other sources of student life. At the same time, it must be open, avoid being judgmental and encourage a healthy relationship with one's own sexuality and with other people. The data must be correct, and knowledgeable adults must dare to answer questions without judging or moralizing. In this, just as in the previous interpellation debate, I think it is interesting to think about what it is the Swedish Democrats think that the Minister should take action. Could it be a black list of words that must not be used in teaching that the Swedish Democrats want to see? Can they want moral policemen in every classroom, so that no one expresses something that the Swedish Democrats perceive as inappropriate or vulgar? Or could it be a new regulation in the School Act that says that all teaching material must be submitted to the Swedish Democratic Parliamentary Group for approval before it can be used? No, even here the Swedish Democrats understand the absurdity. But I still think that Michael Rubbestad should give some kind of answer to what it is that gives him the skills, experience and mandate to have views on which materials are used in school.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-613	Madam President, I would like I want to repeat to Michael Rubbestad something I said in my interpellation response. The material that Michael lifts in his interpellation, and with some detail, is not aimed at middle school students. It is a material that has been developed by RFSU, and RFSU itself has been very clear that it is not a material aimed at middle school pupils. Like Linus Sköld, I am very determined that what is used as teaching material in the important area of knowledge is sexuality, relations and consent, although in other words, it is actually the teacher who should decide. The teacher can take support, the teacher can invite external lecturers and the teacher can, for example, take support from student health. The teacher can also use different forms of teaching material that come from outside. But it's up to the teacher. And the current case referred to is not designed to be used in teaching to middle school students. Michael Rubbestad also asks me what I intend to do about it, that this material has been available. Madam President, I would like As far as I'm aware, this material is no longer available. For some time there were a number of booklets in a brochure rack in a waiting room where there were also high school students who might have had this kind of thought and enjoyed this kind of information – what do I know? This relationship has now led us to have an interpellation debate on the matter in the Swedish Parliament. Michael Rubbestad also pointed out that parents at the school were unhappy. I, too, Madam President, have had contact with parents at school. And the parents I've talked to have been very pleased with the headmaster's swift and clear actions and the clear message that this is not a material intended for or to be used in teaching to middle school students. I have to say that, like Linus Sköld, I wonder what Michael Rubbestad thinks I should do about it, in addition to having noted that the person who is responsible today, namely the headmaster, has long since removed the current brochures from the brochure in question. Finally, Madam President, I would also like to add that I believe that teaching in sexuality, consent and relations is a very important thing. It is a cornerstone of the Swedish school, and it is something that we have not received for free. It is something that generations before us have fought for, and their opponents have always been the conservative forces, who have constantly turned against Elise Ottesen-Ottesen-Jensen, RFSU and the other pioneers who at one time made sure that the Swedish school was one of the very first in the world to have teaching in this important field of knowledge. As Minister of Education, I will fight hard to ensure that we continue to have this teaching in Swedish school with good teaching material and where the teacher has responsibility for what material is used in the classroom.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-621	Madam President, I would like Yes, that is a very important question. There we are in complete agreement, my party and the Minister for Education's party. The Government claims that the Folder has not been used in sex and cohabitation education, but that it has been made available in a waiting room for student health. I am not entirely convinced that it makes the situation much better, because if a teacher had chosen to use this fold in teaching it would of course have been very problematic. But then an adult and educated teacher could have nuanced the content and answered the questions likely to come from the students. If a child takes part of this folder in a waiting room, for example, there is no adult to ask, no adult to explain and clarify. Somewhere, one or more adult individuals have failed to select suitable material for the target group that we are talking about. Unfortunately, this type of situation is not news, although perhaps this particular fold is a bit of an extreme example. The Swedish Democrats have for a long time been pushing the issue of establishing a so-called educational council in Swedish schools with the aim of ensuring accessibility to high-quality, neutral and fact-based school learning tools. Today there is a great deal of choice, and that is of course a good thing. On the other hand, many teachers testify to the sprawlingness of quality, neutrality and the level of facts. Teachers are absolutely competent to choose the teaching materials they will use in their teaching, and that should of course be the usual approach. Here I, the Minister and probably also Linus Sköld are in complete agreement. It is not, as Mr Linus proposed, that I and the parliamentary group of the Swedish Democrats should decide on it. However, many teachers testify that it is difficult to assess which evidence is of sufficient quality. Therefore, we need a teaching council, but it should not be set up by the Swedish Democrats or the Social Democrats, but established and consist of the profession, researchers and school authorities who review and label teaching materials. Then the teachers can choose based on the certified selection of the teaching material council has developed. In this way, we solve the problem of low quality, factual errors, lack of educational structure or political angle – or other inappropriate and substandard material. This proposal has been consistently opposed and voted against by the Minister for Education, the Social Democrats. Now, however, it does not seem impossible that the inquiry that the Minister for Education himself mentions will land in a similar proposal to that of the Swedish Democrats. How will the Government react to the proposal if it turns out that the Swedish democrats have once again been one step ahead and have not been naive?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-629	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats and Rubbestad want to sort children based on background factors such as foreign background and functional variations. They want to introduce school uniforms in primary school and, contrary to all science, abolish mother tongue teaching. They also want to introduce a literary cannon. This is known from before. Now we add that Rubbestad and SD also want to censor information. I think that Mr Rubbestad should instead be involved in the matters that should be governed politically, namely how the system works. For me, it is much more important that we talk about the major problems in the Swedish school system, namely what we can do about the galloping inequality and the gleaming segregation. Today, the best way to predict how a student will perform in school is to look at the level of education of the student's parents. This does not befit a system such as the Swedish system, which is designed to compensate for differences in pupils' growing-up conditions, lead to equality and meet every kid's needs. Rubbestad wants to protect market players at all costs. His party takes unheeded profit withdrawals in defense, defends independent principals' right to engage in religious indoctrination at school and wants there to continue to be no transparency in the free school companies and what they do with our common money. The Swedish Democrats want to retain a segregated school system that creates inequality and leaks money to owners that no one knows who they are. They want to protect a private sector's right to make money from lower teacher density, lower qualifications and joy certificates. Mr Rubbestad knows, however, that these positions are not popular with the electorate, so he desperately wants to talk about something else. Thus we continue to debate Rubbetstad's moral panic and the teachers' party sympathies. I think that Rubbestad should use his last speech in the debate to tell us what he wants to do to increase the equivalence and compensatory capacity of the school system. But he will not do so because he knows that in this respect the Swedish Democrats lack credible ideas.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-636	Madam President, I would like Once again, and perhaps for the third time, I would like to reiterate that the brochure in question is not intended as a teaching material for children in middle school or for children at all. I would also like to repeat once again that, as far as I know, the principal of the school in question has ensured that this brochure is no longer in a brochure. How Michael Rubbestad can get this to have somehow sanctioned the brochure, its contents or its presence in the school in question is a mystery to me. For me, it is obvious that we should have an education in sexuality, relationships and consent that meets the children's needs, is adapted to the child's maturity and, just as Linus Sköld pointed out in his first post, is adapted to the issues children and students have. I'm glad I live in a country where we have a long and fine history of sex and cohabitation education. I am also pleased that we have principals who take responsibility for their schools and, for example, remove a brochure that does not belong there. This happened a few months ago in Umeå, and I am happy and pleased to be Minister of Education in a country where principals act when something happens at their schools. I am also proud to be Minister of Education in a country where teachers decide which teaching materials are to be used in the classrooms. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, I can inform Michael Rubbestad that I have appointed the study on teaching materials and quality of teaching materials. I am the one who wants the current investigator to review the availability of high-quality teaching materials. I am doing this because I know that there is new and interesting research that shows how important the teaching means are, not least at a time when, unfortunately, we have a difficult and persistent lack of qualified and trained teachers on all subjects throughout the country. Madam President, I would like I look forward with anticipation to the proposals in the investigation, but I will take the right to wait until the investigation has made its proposals before I have any comments on what they look like in detail. I also take the opportunity to agree with Linus Sköld that we have very big and serious problems in Swedish school: the large teacher shortage, the lack of competence development for teachers and the galloping inequality. We must tackle these problems together. Of course, I welcome a debate on every nook in Swedish school, but the really big and important issues are about students' knowledge and inequality.
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-647	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for a good answer. In his speech, Linus Sköld raised I do not know how many errors about the policy of the Swedish Democrats. It would take considerably more than two minutes to discuss them, but there will certainly be more occasions. RFSU and RFSL are the organisations that have developed the folder we are talking about. Obviously, they consider the language in it appropriate. Every day these organisations are hired by Swedish schools, and in 2007 RFSL was also appointed as this year's Swedish lobby organisation. With great power comes also a great responsibility, it is said. If you are an organisation that Swedish schools turn to in these matters, it is important that you take this responsibility seriously and set an example. On RFSU's website there is a navigation menu, and there you can read the facts What it actually says, rather than gross gender words, is not something I intend to say in Parliament's Chamber, but I think that everyone understands what it says anyway. The vocabulary is consistently recurring and without alternatives. In 2016, a teacher was denied a lesson that RFSL visited so that the students would dare to talk freely. A 13-year-old boy later told me that several of the children felt bad after the disgusting sex talk. With him he had a link to the dating site Qruiser, which was then recently in windstorm for publishing erotic images of minors. The developments we see are very worrying, and the Government has a great responsibility here. In a few months, a full year's age will begin middle school, and I really hope that these children won't have to experience lessons with RFSL that drive out the teacher and share links to web pages with erotic material. I also hope they won't have to find the Folder Sex and Transplant in the waiting room of their school sister. It's gone in Umeå, but is it gone in all other places? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that?
i-e0cce420c1318d5e-654	Madam President, I would like The history of the Swedish school is also a story where sex and cohabitation education have had an important and important place. It is about the liberation of women and about the great work that our predecessors and predecessors have done in ensuring that generations of children and students have received a sex and cohabitation education that has given them the opportunity to be who they are and to take a great responsibility for their own actions but also in ensuring that you can live life in the way you want to. There, our sex and cohabitation education has served us well in our country. It didn't happen by chance. It came about after a long and hard struggle, and those who carried out this struggle were the pioneers of the RFSU and, above all, Elise Ottesen-Ottesen-Jensen, who took very great personal battles and endured a great personal discomfort in order to carry out the important reforms that have given us the sex and cohabitation education that we now have. Does this mean that it is free to do anything, as suggested in the closing statement? Does this mean that teachers in Swedish schools have abdicated in favour of various special interests? The answer to that question, Madam President, is no. It is the teacher who is responsible for teaching. It is the teacher who is responsible for what takes place during teaching in the classroom. If the teacher considers it an advantage to have an invited lecturer or similar, it is up to the teacher to invite, but it is always the teacher who is responsible for teaching. This, Madam President, also applies to the subject of sexuality, consent and relations. I would also like to stress for the fourth or fifth time that the brochure from which Michael Rubbestad quotes over and over again and the words to which he refers are not, as far as I know, intended for middle school pupils and, above all, not as teaching material for middle school pupils.
