i-7b8c88e0551a239e-5	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to restore the reliability of Swedish civil records. Since this government took office, we have made a change of course to create order and order in the population records. It requires urgent work and the right conditions for the responsible authorities. Part of creating the right conditions is about clear signals to the population that everyone should be registered where it lives. It has therefore been particularly important to reintroduce the civil record crime that the moderate-led government abolished. In addition, the Government has implemented a number of other measures aimed at improving the quality of population records. The Swedish Tax Agency has received increased funding and more tools to detect, investigate and correct more errors in public records. The authority now has the possibility to de-register false identities from the population register and to make visits to check a person's residence. The Government has also strengthened the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to combat crimes related to the use of false or manipulated acts. We have done this by, among other things, extending the Swedish Tax Agency's law enforcement activities to include investigations into illegal use of identity, forgery of records and false certification in cases where the act relates to data or documents in the case of the Swedish Tax Agency. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency has improved the conditions for an effective and effective exchange of information between, among other things, civil and law enforcement activities. During the previous year, the government decided on two missions to counter misreporting. The Ministry of Finance also referred a memorandum proposing, among other things, an obligation for all authorities to inform the Swedish Tax Agency if it can be assumed that an information in the population register is incorrect or incomplete. In addition, the Government has previously appointed a government inquiry that will report measures to reduce errors in population accounts by 1 April 2021 at the latest.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-10	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister says that since this government took office, it has made a change of course in order to get order in the population records. Change of course and order are strong words that will do you well when you make a speech in this House or on May Day. But there is also a reality, and the government must relate to it. Sweden is plagued by serious crime, an enormous alienation and elaborate attacks on our welfare systems. These attacks mean that taxpayers' money does not go to the most needy, but ends up in the pockets of criminals and fraudsters. The lack of reliable population records is one of the reasons. The population register is one of the most strategic activities in the welfare systems by the others extracting data from it and taking it for granted. If information in the population register is incorrect, the door to fraud is opened wide open. Some of the most famous scams outperform the most bizarre fantasies. One example is that of Iraq's Minister of Defence, who, while he was a minister in his home country, could receive child benefit, housing allowance and sickness benefit from Sweden. In addition, he could not be prosecuted or convicted of these frauds. Look also at all those IS terrorists who financed their vile crimes in Syria with Swedish taxpayers' money in the form of child benefit, subsistence support, housing allowance and so on. We also have all the lesser known cases where people registered in Sweden receive guarantee pensions and housing allowances but in reality have moved to their home countries. There are also cases where the beneficiary of the guarantee pension has died, but the pension continues to be set off by relatives. This money could have gone to Swedish pensioners who have worked and worked their whole lives. Fraud involving child benefit, child support, child support and parental allowance are also very extensive. People move abroad without writing out and continue to sign out grants of several hundreds of thousands of dollars. This is money that is virtually unrecoverable. This money is stolen from taxpayers. In Malmö, the Social Democratic government has paid grants to a childcare company to take care of children who have lived abroad but have been registered in the business. To sum up, I would like to quote the Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency, who wrote that the scale of the offence and abuse of welfare systems has become so extensive that it can now be considered to be a threat to the system. Mr President, I would like to This is the financial statement of the government's six years of change of course. The Moderates feel that more and more powerful measures are needed, such as a national census.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-20	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Boriana Åberg's problem description. It is a problem that people are wrong to accept subsidies. A prerequisite for doing so is that you are registered in an incorrect way. I believe, however, that Boriana Åberg underestimates the problem. All the examples mentioned by Boriana Åberg are about people who live in Sweden but who have a foreign background. I believe that Boriana Åberg thereby reduces the problem. It is clear that people who were born in Sweden and whose family has lived in Sweden for many generations are also part of this problem. I am afraid that the approach taken by Boriana Åberg – I do not know if it applies to the rest of the Moderates – makes you miss a large part of the problem when you so clearly focus on the problems that exist with people who may be born in another country and then move back there after their retirement. The government has taken a wide range of measures to address the problems. It was unfortunate that during their reign the Moderates abolished the civil record crime. It is good that we have now reintroduced it. It is also important that we have given the Swedish Tax Agency additional tools to work with this and that we have added additional resources to the Swedish Tax Agency. The Moderates demand that we do a census. I would not mind if I thought it was an effective way of using our resources to tackle this problem. But my assessment is that this is not the most effective way to do it. It would cost a great deal of money, but I do not think it would have as much effect as the other things that we have implemented and the additional measures that we intend to implement in this area. The assessment from the Swedish Tax Agency is that about 2 per cent of the registered persons in Sweden are wrongly registered. My opinion and that of the authority is that it is better to try to focus on the 2% that are wrongly registered rather than spending a great deal of taxpayers' money on controlling and chasing the 98% that are properly registered.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-25	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to agree with the Minister that fraud is abominable, regardless of who commits it and where that person is born or residing. If the Minister wants to hear about other cases and misses them, I can say that many couples differ. The husband moves the paper elsewhere, and the wife receives maintenance support and housing allowance as a single person. It is a crime committed even by those who were born in Sweden and whose family has lived here for generations. I say this for the sake of order. I do not agree with the Minister that a national census would be an ineffective measure. What the authorities have done so far is good, but more is needed. You need to know which people are in Sweden and where they live. A national census is an important start for establishing a safer Sweden. Last autumn we had allocated 500 million in our budget to the Swedish Tax Agency, but also the municipalities, to carry out such a census. Our thoughts were as follows – I do not think I can convince the Minister for Finance, but I will do my best: those who are not verified by the census would miss out on the contributions that accompany the census. You should not go knocking on everyone's door, but it is the risk principle that should determine whether the authorities and municipalities should make physical visits. It is known which areas stand out. The vast majority of citizens could verify their population records digitally. A national census is also about preventing, for example, trade in address details and black rental contracts. An accurate census also has a bearing on the access to criminal gangs. Carousels where people who have left the country with retained benefits rent out their apartments to people who are not entitled to stay in Sweden must be stopped. Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson's party colleague Boel Godner, Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Södertälje, thinks that a census of people and housing is needed. Here's what she says, "We need to know where people live for the safety of Sweden and our citizens." Many people are not allowed to register where they live but are forced to buy an address where they can sign up. The opportunity to make money from people's desire for housing instead of residential housing is widely used in combination with tax evasion. Thus, population statistics are not correct and municipalities are finding it difficult to plan, among other things, welfare activities. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Södertälje has had major problems with criminal networks, extensive fraud with assistance compensation and more. That's where you should know. My question to the Minister for Finance is: why is she failing Södertälje's expertise and rejecting the idea of a national census?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-30	Mr President, I would like to Södertälje sits on very important experience and has of course many important input to come with. But the last census we had in Sweden was based on register data. If the records are incorrect at first, such a census would have little effect. If you want a proper census, it's about knocking on the door. It sounds to me at Boriana Åberg that she thinks that if so, it would be done in areas where it is thought that there is a particularly high risk and where it is believed that the 2% is rather than the 98. I can welcome Boriana Åberg to tell you that on 17 December 2020 the Government decided to commission the Swedish Tax Agency, in cooperation with voluntary municipalities, to set up pilot projects to investigate the extent of incorrect population records and to develop methods and working methods to correct errors. It is not unlikely that Södertälje can be one of the municipalities in which this will happen. This is being done precisely to make good use of resources, so that we are really effective in our operations. The projects must be conducted in areas where the Swedish Tax Agency and municipalities consider that there are problems in terms of overcrowding or illegal trade in rental contracts or where incorrect registrations can be assumed to be particularly common. Residence investigations should be conducted but also unannounced physical verification visits. In accordance with regular assignments, the Swedish Tax Agency must also carry out random checks on registered residents and take the other necessary measures to determine the correct residence. So what Boriana Åberg is asking for is something that is going on right now. We will have a report on this in June 2022. It will, of course, be extremely exciting to follow the development of these projects. I think it's important that we concentrate our resources where we think they're doing the most good. That is precisely why I have doubts about the 98% that are properly registered.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-34	Mr President, I would like to I continue to maintain that a national census is much needed. I welcome the initiative of the IRS. But the last census in Sweden was carried out 30 years ago, and a lot has happened in the country since that time. Of course, all the measures taken by the authorities to clarify who lives in Sweden and where they live are good, but they are not enough. Our welfare systems are under attack from all sorts of criminal activities. According to the delegation tasked with counteracting undue payments from welfare systems, SEK 300 billion has been wrongly paid since 2005. The costs the Minister is afraid of are negligible compared to this huge waste of tax money, which we must put an end to. It's sad that our tax money goes to fraudsters. It undermines trust in the state and erodes the social contract. Magdalena Andersson now has the opportunity to restore confidence in the state and protect citizens' interests. What is needed is to clear the systems from false data and replace it with accurate data on who you are, where you live and what obligations and rights you have.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-37	Mr President, I would like to I still don't really hear the strong arguments for a census. If it were the case that a census would save 300 billion tax dollars directly, I would immediately implement one. But I have not really heard any argument that this should be the case. In order for a census to be really effective, the Swedish people would have to be in their homes where they are registered for a long time. Then we will make sure that the Tax Agency officials go around knocking on and checking that the people who are registered are there but no others. Then you must also go and look in the closets and control the winds and cellars. In order to achieve what Boriana Åberg thinks you would achieve with a census, it is the kind of methods you would then use. I am not sure that the 98% who are correctly registered would appreciate it. I am also not sure that this is the most effective way of using our common resources. My assessment is that we should focus on finding the 2% that are misbooked. That's what we're working hard to do. We've re-introduced the civil record crime. We have secured additional resources for the Swedish Tax Agency and given it new opportunities and methods to use for this. In addition, the work has been given a special assignment for it to cooperate in particular with municipalities where it is estimated that there is a problem with, among other things, overcrowding and the sale of black contracts. We are trying to work effectively and to use taxpayers' money properly. We have the target together. It should be correct civil records, and our contributions and insurance policies should be paid out correctly. That's good.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-41	Mr President, I would like to David Josefsson has asked me whether I intend to take any measures in the direction of environmental governance as a result of the fact that the difference in benefit value between conventional cars and certain environmental cars is expected to decrease due to future changes in the regulatory framework for car benefit. Under the current regulatory framework, the benefit value of most cars is underestimated in relation to the actual cost of a car's ownership. The Government has therefore referred a proposal for an adjusted calculation of car benefit. The aim of the proposal is to allow the benefit value to better reflect the cost of holding a privately owned car, thereby achieving neutrality between income in the form of cash pay and car benefit in accordance with the intentions of the legislation. The proposal therefore seeks to remedy the wrong assessment of car benefits, which means, among other things, that the tax system favours fossil-powered cars in relation to other goods and services. Today, eco-friendly cars are rewarded by the so-called permanent reduction. The reduction means that the new car price of the environmental car when calculating the benefit value is reduced to the new car price of the most comparable conventional car. The proposal referred to does not imply any change in this environmental management. Until the end of the year, there was also a temporary further reduction in the benefit value of a maximum of SEK 10 000 for certain specially adapted cars. This reduction was since it was introduced for a limited period and ended as a result of the existing regulatory framework. For the vast majority of environmental cars, the permanent reduction has a greater effect on the benefit value than the time-limited reduction had. For example, for electric cars, the permanent reduction means that the preferential price on average is reduced by about 45 per cent. In order for the climate policy objectives adopted by the Parliament to be achieved within the required time, the agreement to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet needs to be accelerated. The Bonu's Malus system is an instrument aimed at new car buyers and aims to make it more attractive to buy a car with low emissions than a car with high emissions. In addition, green cars are also rewarded by the permanent reduction of the benefit value.
i-ELSnXueTMxgMKgxXxDcYdE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You can have different opinions if politics is to make it easier or harder for an infant parent, for example, to have a car to make the everyday puzzle go together. The car is today a clear political conflict in Sweden. In Gothenburg, from which I come, the former red-green rule, led by Magdalena Andersson, decided on a traffic strategy for the city. There the stated goal was to reduce car traffic by 25%. The means was to make it as difficult as possible for ordinary people to choose the car through everything from increased parking fees to fewer parking spaces and closed streets. Here in Parliament, the red-green government, with the same party at its head, chooses to pursue a tax policy that will make it more expensive for ordinary people to afford a new car. The consequence is that in the end only one who has money can drive a car. The official from Torslanda may give up the car, while the director from Östermalm can continue to drive his suv. I have full respect for the fact that one can have different views and different perspectives in a democracy, Mr President. That is why voters can vote for me or for Magdalena Andersson in general elections. However, I am still surprised when the government's reform of the preferential car system does not make driving a climate-friendly car cheaper and more expensive to drive a car that runs on fossil fuels cheaper. It's the other way around. At the same time as the government is now making it more expensive to drive a charging hybrid from Volkswagen or Volvo, for example, it is cheaper to drive fuel-consuming luxury cars from BMW or Porsche. Let me take a few calculation examples. According to estimates presented in SVT on January 12th, the benefit value per month for a Volkswagen Passat charging hybrid will increase by SEK 2 253. At the same time, a BMW X5 that goes on diesel receives a decrease in the benefit value of SEK 468 per month. Perhaps the most remarkable thing of all is that the government wants to shock up the benefit value of small electric cars. As an example, the benefit value of a Renault Zoe Zoe from SEK 2,058 to SEK 3,810. That's an 85 percent increase. Looking at the full cost of driving a preferential car, costs are even higher for a climate-friendly vehicle. It is a consequence of the government also changing the so-called bonus – the Malus system. These are changes that, by the way, with closest surgical precision hits many of the charging hybrids that have been developed and designed in my hometown of Gothenburg. According to figures from Volvo Cars, the total cost of a Volvo V60 charging hybrid increases by nearly SEK 1,000 per month in a regular leasing arrangement. Mr President, I would like to Is it really the Minister's intention that it will be more expensive to drive a climate-friendly vehicle like an electric car or a charging hybrid but cheaper to drive a SUV? Is the Minister of Finance satisfied that d e t will be more expensive for the official in Torslanda to drive a modern charging hybrid but cheaper for the director of Östermalm to pick out a new diesel suv?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-55	Mr President, the Minister for Finance. Sweden is an elongated and large country. If you live outside the inner city of Stockholm, you are extremely dependent on the car to get to work, drive your children to training and sports activities etc. My question to the Minister for Finance is this: does the Minister of Finance think it reasonable to increase the tax on new cars while it is cheap for old cars? Is it good for the environment? If you really want the cars and the emissions from the cars, it should be the opposite. There should be low taxes on new vehicles and high taxes on old ones. Yesterday I visited a car dealer in my constituency. I asked, how's it going? Well, it went decently well, despite the pandemic. However, we sell very little new cars, he said. There are very few, and it is still most companies that buy. There is now great uncertainty about preferential taxation. That's what they asked me. I couldn't explain the details of it, but they were concerned. But the used market went like the train. They also sell old cars to the other side of the Baltic Sea. The ones that aren't stolen are sold there. Mr President, I would like to I would like to put the question once again to the Minister for Finance. Does the Minister of Finance think it is correct to have high taxes on new cars that emit less and lower taxes on old cars?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-60	Mr President, I would like to The big change that the government has made is to redo the benefit car system. It is against the background of evaluations. To have a preferential car should not look any different from taking it out as a salary. There's supposed to be a balance. We do not want an incentive in the tax system to charge wages as a car rather than as a regular income. When you have looked, it has turned out that if you are to have a neutrality are the preferential car values that they were previously underestimated for the car park as a whole. This means that ordinary employees who are unable to have a preferential car at all are involved in subsidising those who have a preferential car. This applies both to the officials of Torslanda and to the directors of Torslanda. So they get a subsidy from the shop assistant who works at Focus across the street from Liseberg. That's how it's worked in the last few years. I find this difficult to justify, and nor was it the intention of legislation to have an inherent subsidy from those who are unable to have a preferential car for those who have a preferential car – and it is mainly people who have a little higher income and who are living in our big cities. That's why we changed the system. As we looked at the system, we saw that on average many cars were undervalued, so we needed to adjust it. In fact, however, there were also some cars that had too much benefit value, and they were above all expensive cars. Then we said: We can not only adjust those who have had too low a benefit value, but we must also adjust those who have had too high a benefit value. That is why some of the really expensive cars are now getting a lower benefit value. This is because they had previously had too high a benefit value. This is the big shift. This shift does not change the balance and relationship between environmental cars and non-environmental cars. What affects, however, is the temporary reduction that ended now at the turn of the year. It has been around for a number of years to bring more environmental cars into the market, but it has also been clear all the way that it will be phased out. As we read the Moderates' proposal here in Parliament, the Moderates also do not want to prolong this reduction. Against that background, I'm a little surprised by the interpellation.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-66	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. In several interviews and games, the Minister of Finance has raised the climate issue as one of our biggest challenges and described how fiscal policy can be used to steer towards a more climate-friendly society. That is also the reason, if you ask the government, for introducing bonuses – the Malus system. A press release from the staff of the Minister for Finance on 24 March 2017 described the purpose of the bonus – malus as..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is only one large but here, Mr President. The Swedish National Audit Office has found that the system does not achieve this purpose and that the climate benefit of bonus – malus is negligible. That is also why we Moderates are critical of that system. Mr President, I would like to So if you are going to take the Minister of Finance's word and pursue a fiscal policy that moves towards a more climate-friendly society, you should not pursue her own policy. A more effective way would have been to make it easier for Swedes to drive more climate-friendly cars, for example by investing heavily in charging infrastructure. One could look at different regulations on, for example, congestion taxes and parking fees, but also on traffic rules, which have been successfully applied in our neighbouring country, Norway. But the government chooses not to apply these solutions. It is clear to me that this government chooses placard politics over effective policies that work. Otherwise, Mr President, my question will again be: why does the government not take the climate issue more seriously and listen to the criticism of bonuses – the Malus system of lack of climate benefits? And why does the government make it more expensive for ordinary Swedes to drive a car with minimal carbon footprint but cheaper to drive a fossil suv?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-73	Mr President, I would like to However, the question to David Josefsson must then be: Does David Josefsson mean that we should change the system of preferential cars and only correct the benefits that were too low and not those that were too high? Or does David Josefsson think that it is correct that those who are shop assistants should be involved in subsidising the preferential cars of the officials and directors of Torslanda? When it comes to bonus – malus I see great opportunities to develop the system. I'm sure it can be both more effective and more accurate, and that's something we're working on. But the big advantage of the bonus – the Malus system is that it is a so-called closed system. Thus, those who buy a petrol - consuming car pay for the purchase of a climate - smart car, such as an electric car. That's a big point. Those who cannot afford to buy new cars do not have to contribute to the electric cars at all, and that is a big point compared to the environmental car bonus that existed during the time of the alliance government. Then ordinary employees were allowed to contribute to those who could afford to buy new cars. Now it is those who can afford to buy petrol - leaking cars that pay for those who buy climate - smart new cars. I think that's a big point with bonus – malus.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-77	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance asks me what I really mean by the question. My point is that you must have a system and an environmental management system that steers towards more climate-friendly vehicles. I was born in Torslanda, where Volvo Cars head office is. When I grew up there was a Volvo on almost every garage driveway in the Trollrunan townhouse area. There was a pride in the fact that the world's safest cars were built in Gothenburg. That pride remains in Gothenburg to this day. Today, however, pride is also about the company building some of the world's best electric cars and hybrids. We Gothenburgers are proud that we have a automotive industry that is at the forefront of the transition to a more climate-friendly vehicle fleet, in Sweden and in the world. The company's goal is that half of all sold cars should be electric cars and the other half hybrids. But, Mr President, as a moderate, I do not believe that companies should be given either positive or – for that matter – negative discrimination. Volvo does not need government subsidies to be the world leader in converting the vehicle fleet to fossil-free. But Volvo does not need regulations that seem almost designed to hit their car models extra hard. That is what is happening now with the changes in bonuses – malus and in the benefit values. The Minister of Finance is now introducing changes that make it more expensive for ordinary Swedes to drive a hybrid car from Volvo but cheaper for the director of Östermalm to drive a BMW-suv. The Minister of Finance maintains a tax system that is demonstrably lacking in climate benefits, although the world cannot wait for a transition to renewables. The Minister of Finance introduces tax changes that strike the Gothenburg automotive industry with surgical precision. I just wonder, Mr President, why?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-83	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to David Josefsson you can easily get the impression that the Moderates have suggestions for increasing environmental management. But that is not the case. The Moderates generally say that they want a more effective bonus – the Malus system. But they have no concrete proposal. It is easy to wish, but there is no concrete proposal from the Moderates. The Moderates are opposed to the rescheduling of the benefit car system, which means that ordinary wage earners will no longer subsidise the benefit cars where the average income among those who have these cars is SEK 50 000 per month. It should be subsidised by ordinary wage earners; the Moderates think so. It's a reverse Robin Hood policy. I am very proud that we are doing this shift, because I do not think that ordinary employees throughout Sweden should subsidise the preferential cars that we know are mainly used in our big cities and by people with an average income of SEK 50 000 – something that ordinary people can only dream of. You recognize the old Moderates.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-86	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to satisfy a parliamentary announcement that companies affected by loss of revenue as a result of the Pandemic Act should receive financial compensation. Since the outbreak of the new Corona virus, the government for 2020 and 2021 has presented historically large measures of over 250 billion in clean expenditure to limit the spread of infection and to mitigate the impact on jobs and businesses. Regulations granted under the Pandemic Act may have significant negative financial consequences for those affected. The Government therefore informed the Riksdag in the Bill on the Pandemic Act that the Government intended to return to the Riksdag with proposals for compensation. Just over a week ago, on 18 January, the government presented a proposal for special support when deciding to close down operations, a shutdown aid. The closure aid is designed in a similar way to the conversion aid but is more generous. The aid means that companies that have lost all their turnover over a period of time due to closure will be able to receive 100 per cent of their fixed costs reimbursed, up to a ceiling of SEK 75 million per company per month. The aid is related to the turnover step – the larger the turnover step, the larger the aid, up to 100 %. The Government has also proposed an extension and strengthening of conversion aid and proposals to extend and strengthen aid to individual traders and to introduce new aid to partnerships. In addition, the Government has proposed that there should be State aid for rental costs during the period January – March 2021. N the suspension aid, as well as the extension and reinforcement of the conversion aid and the rental aid, require the approval of the European Commission, which may entail adjustments in the design of the aid. The Government has already announced that the rules for short-term support will be amended so that employers can receive support until 30 June 2021. The Government has now also made proposals to strengthen support for short-term lay-off with a new level of working time reduction of 80 per cent during the period January – March 2021. In addition, the Government has proposed to bring forward the temporary reduction in employers' contributions for 19 to 23-year-olds as from 1 January of this year. The Government has also proposed extending the grace period for the payment of tax as well as the extension of the SME credit guarantee scheme. In addition, the State will continue to pay the companies' medical expenses beyond the normal level. Sweden is in an extraordinary situation with great uncertainty about the further development of the pandemic. The Government continues to analyse the need for measures and compensation on an ongoing basis and returns to the Riksdag as soon as necessary.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-92	Mr President, I would like to Me and the Minister of Finance will primarily dwell on the temporary covid-19 law and its potential consequences for Swedish traders. Before I touch on it, however, I think it is important to put the Pandemic Act in its context. After a few months in the spring, the government decided to rush a law before the summer, through which it gained increased powers. Then the government seemed to find the law absolutely necessary to crush the pandemic. The government was in such a need that rapid handling seemed to surprise referral bodies and meant that the parliament was in no way given reasonable room to handle the matter given its nature. However, the Parliament dealt with the matter, and the law became a reality – not least as a consequence of the government's seeming belief that the law was directly decisive. What happened next, Mr President? Yes, absolutely nothing. The law that was so important that practice was broken to implement it was never used. Then the time passed until the government, just before Christmas, over nine months into the pandemic, realized that it was really necessary to quickly manage a bill that would again give increased powers to the government. How long the government had been working on the bill I dare not answer, but that it had over nine months is beyond doubt. The fact that, unlike the government, the referral bodies and the Riksdag had to deal with the matter more quickly than lightning was the government's firm opinion, and so was it. The temporary covid-19 law passed by the Riksdag gives the government increased power to shut down operations, and unlike the law before the summer, this has already been used. The Swedish Democrats believe that the temporary covid-19 law is too far-reaching. Everyone should see the risks that the government or its authorities can decide on their own to restrict freedom of assembly or to target measures that significantly restrict the ability of companies to carry out their activities. Unfortunately, however, we were the only ones who wanted to increase the parliamentary power of control in order to ensure that there is a popular foundation in the decisions. On the other hand, together with the former Alliance, we managed to run over the government on the issue of financial compensation. Please note that the government parties reserved for that decision, Mr President. Instead, the government's position was that the issue of financial compensation in connection with regulations made pursuant to the law should be dealt with in connection with the drafting of such regulations. This is far from enough, which is why I am glad that the Parliament has abstained. However, in his response to this interpellation, the Minister of Finance is very proud of the shutdown support that the government had to provide to order from the Riksdag. My question in this first speech is therefore why the government was against financial compensation from the outset for those traders who are at risk of being affected or who have already been affected by the temporary covid-19 law.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-100	Mr President, I would like to Oh, well, Tobias Andersson has completely misunderstood the government's policy. He couldn't have listened to what I've been saying at all. The government has always made it clear that companies affected by closure will of course receive support. The discussion has focused on where and how best to obtain such support. There, the government's view is that it would not be very effective to include such support in the pandemic law. It would risk leading to long legal proceedings and that the issue would be decided in court in a way that we believe would be difficult and uncertain for business. We have felt that this issue is better dealt with as we usually prepare budget issues in Parliament, namely via an additional amending budget. That's also how we've done it. It was good that I could clear up this unfortunate misunderstanding for Tobias Andersson.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-103	Mr President, I would like to If I had been a government representative, I would have been rather careful to accuse others of making proposals with inefficiency, not least in view of the fact that most traders have been waiting today for payments of aid to which they are entitled for almost six months. Having said that, Mr President, I and the Swedish Democrats welcome the closure aid. I want to be clear about that. However, when my interpellation was submitted, this had not yet been announced. What I therefore choose to focus on in this debate is the fact that the individual traders who have already been affected by the government's use of the temporary covid-19 law have not yet been replaced by any compensation. In turn, after the law had been clubd in the Riksdag, measures were taken by the government, so shops, shopping centres, gyms etc. today may only have a limited number of visitors, namely one per ten square metres. I do not intend to say now whether it is right or wrong, but I can see that, despite the fact that the law has already entered into force and that the government today has great powers to severely restrict our rights and freedoms, both for individuals and for traders, there is no possibility of being given financial compensation for those affected. As has been said, the government has certainly put forward a proposal for special support when deciding on the closure of activities, which is referred to in this debate as the closure aid. That, of course, is good. However, just as the Minister of Finance explained in his response to the interpellation, the closure aid requires the approval of the European Commission. This does not only mean that there may be a need for adjustments to the aid; it also means that the aid, which can take effect at the earliest in April of this year, can take effect. I would have liked to have been more optimistic than I am, but in view of the fact that traders are already being forced to spend money on behalf of the government for up to six months in order to avoid paying out the support measures, I am not very optimistic that the closure aid would miraculously be in place in April. The Minister of Finance will be happy to convince me otherwise. The government has already limited the freedom to conduct a business for certain companies. They are already suffering financially as a result, and the only consolation is that the government may manage to get in place a form of financial compensation for the restriction of freedom to conduct a business three months after it began. Even if it were supposed to be in place in April, the empirical evidence suggests that actual payments of the aid are likely to delay considerably longer than that, so we may again have a situation in which traders are forced to spend money for the government. Now, the Minister of Finance will certainly tell me that I have to understand well that the aid needs state aid approval by the European Commission, which is why I have this criticism and I see that I understand it. What I also understand is that this process would have gone much faster if the government had not delayed the entire nine months of the bill and then opposed this form of financial compensation in the report. If the government had handled the matter differently and initially wanted to see closure aid, it would of course have gone considerably faster to get it in place as well. Does the Minister of Finance feel responsible for the vulnerable situation that companies have ended up in as a consequence of this?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-113	Mr President, I would like to My assessment is not that companies would get money more quickly if they had a write-up on compensation directly in the Pandemic Act. I'm afraid it would be the other way around. Tobias Andersson says that there is no support for the companies that are now affected by, for example, the regulation of many people who can be in a store. But there is support for the companies affected by this, and that is the conversion aid. There you can get compensation for up to 90% of the fixed costs that you have when you lose turnover either because we have this regulation or for another reason, for example that people do not come to business because they are afraid of infection. There is therefore such support. That support cannot be more than 90% in accordance with the rules that exist in the European Union. We would not get 100% support there. In addition, staff can be given short-term leave. That can be done up to 80%, so there is another subsidy. In addition, we are now moving forward with the rental subsidy. If you have not had enough turnover to be able to take part in the conversion aid, you have the opportunity to negotiate with the property owner and get a reduction in the rent, and then the state can go in and pay for 50 % of the reduction. In addition, we have also made special investments in smaller companies. For those who run a single firm, we have increased turnover aid, and this also applies to the operation of a trading company. Since we know that these subsidies are being approved in the EU and that many companies have a liquidity problem here and now, we have also provided new opportunities for deferral of the tax. If you have liquidity problems now, you can get three months of tax payments paid back to the tax account. That money will be able to enter the accounts right now at the beginning of February. This will, of course, be a great relief for many companies that are having an extremely tough time right now. There are shops that have a tough time as they are affected by how many you can be there, but not least the restaurant industry and the cultural event industry are having a very tough time now. Then it is clear that this refund on the tax will come in handy when it comes. It's just a couple of weeks until then.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-121	Mr President, I would like to It will be some or a few weeks until these subsidies can be applied for. Then there is a processing period, and the empirical analysis of the duration of other aid measures indicates that there is a risk that the aid will be paid in weeks and months thereafter. I am therefore not as optimistic about this as the Minister for Finance. I would like to highlight another aspect of the problem I have raised in the past. Today, traders are bleeding money as a consequence of the measures taken on the basis of the temporary covid-19 law, and they are completely without any hope of being able to take part in the announced shutdown aid that the government did not even want from the outset. At the same time, the government this week presented a proposal to target almost 175 million to the county administrative boards for increased supervision work to ensure that the Pandemic Act will have the desired effects, as the government expresses it. In addition, it is proposed that an additional SEK 82 million be allocated to municipalities, regions and county boards for, among other things, congestion control at catering sites. I do not rule out the need for these resources, but I would like to ask the Finance Minister how she thinks it is perceived by those who have been most affected. Mr President, I would like to Imagine yourself having your business freedom restricted as a hardworking entrepreneur. Then you are told that in several months you may be able to get compensation for it, and then you are told that the government will quickly allocate millions to those who will review that your business freedom has actually been limited. Does the Minister of Finance think that the traders concerned are satisfied with the government's handling of the issue?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-127	Mr President, I would like to In his first speech, Tobias Andersson said that the government did not want us to have any shutdown support. Then I explained to Tobias Andersson that there has never been any doubt on the part of the government that you need and of course should have a shutdown support. On the other hand, we have had different views as to whether such closure aid should be included in the Pandemic Act or whether it should come as an additional amending budget. I am a little surprised that Tobias Andersson repeats in his final line that the government did not want closure aid. Does Tobias Andersson have trouble hearing or having trouble understanding what I am saying – or is Tobias Andersson lying in this Chamber? It will be a little pointless to have interpellation debates if you refuse to take in what the opponent says. Then I can also inform Tobias Andersson that when it comes to getting the tax refunded, it will not be several weeks from applying, but the assessment is that the money will be able to start being paid out in the accounts during the second week of February.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-130	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to give Boverket a mission to guide how wind power expansion can take place without any negative impact on noise, psychosocial living conditions or other factors that have a negative impact on local residents. Lars Beckman has also asked me if I believe that a mission to Boverket is not required and if I then intend to change more parts of Boverket's mission that have similar issues. Finally, he has asked me whether I and the government intend to take measures to improve local democracy so that the influence and influence of municipalities on wind power expansion in Sweden is strengthened. In my answer to a similar question from Lars Beckman recently, I have informed that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has published a guide on noise emissions from wind turbines in December 2020. This includes a review of the general knowledge about noise from wind turbines and current guidelines, but also a guide for measures aimed at reducing noise from wind turbines. At present, I consider that further guidance is not required. When it comes to the question of whether I intend to change more parts of Boverket's assignment that have similar issues, Boverket is responsible, according to its instructions, for guiding municipalities and others in how noise and other health issues should be taken into account when planning and building housing according to planning and construction legislation. With regard to what I intend to do to strengthen local democracy in the field of wind power expansion in Sweden, the government has set up a study on increased predictability in the environmental testing of wind power. The investigation concerns the municipal power of wind power according to the Environmental Code. I don't want to pre-empt the investigation's conclusions.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-135	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. Mr President, I would like to There is a massive expansion of wind power in Sweden, which affects a lot of people living in the affected areas. These include both the psychosocial environment and noise. Of course, the person who has chosen to live beautifully and close to the coast has done so because it is where you want to live. Imagine that you have moved to Söderhamn and bought a red house with white knots because you want to enjoy the sound of the sea and the beautiful view of the sea. Suddenly you find out that wind turbines will be built after the whole beautiful coast. Mr President, I would like to The environment is affected very negatively. One might think – that's why I've put this interpellation – that a housing minister who belongs to a party whose name starts with the environment and ends the party would take into account how people are affected by a strong wind power expansion. I can only regret that the Minister for Housing does not share my view: that we should study and take more account of how people are affected. Last week in Hälsingland you could read about a man who lives in Hälsingland and who described the very difficult consequences for his habitat it has meant having a wind farm next to him. It's a very big noise impact. In the newspaper article, he describes how life has changed. He lives in the woods, close to nature, and wants to hear the chirping from the birds. But all of a sudden, his habitat has changed completely. Yesterday we could read in Gefle Dagblad about residents in Sandviken who have the closest panic that their habitat will be affected. One of the women interviewed in the newspaper says that it will be like living next to a carnival. We have previously seen, also at home in Gävleborg, that propeller blades from wind turbines have loosened and flown hundreds of meters away. Mr President, I would like to A humility would have been desired from the Minister of Housing. If you want to be a housing minister for the whole of Sweden, for all residents, even in the localities and regions affected by wind power expansion, you have to take into account how people are affected. The Minister of Housing also has an expert authority. It is Boverket, which in many contexts are municipalities and the market helpful about various things related to construction, actually most of it. I am therefore surprised that the Minister for Housing believes that Boverket should not have views or guide the municipalities as to how the psychosocial environment is affected for those affected by wind power. It would be reasonable for those affected by wind power expansion to have the support of us elected representatives, to have support so as not to have their habitat destroyed. The person who lives in the beautiful, nice red cottage with white knots and who has chosen to stay there to see the beautiful sea view does not want to see their habitat destroyed.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-144	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman, for setting a relevant interpellation! I want to tell you about such a situation in my hometown of Gothenburg. I want to tell you about one of Sweden's most beautiful cultural landscapes: the southern archipelago of Gothenburg. There is a unique nature and small archipelago communities, all of which have their unique character. 5 000 permanent residents live there, and there is a dynamic business sector in both shipping and tourism. A few years ago there was a 15-year struggle between a municipal energy company and the inhabitants to build a gigantic wind farm in Hakefjord. The political leadership of Gothenburg Energi, otherwise party comrades to the Government, wanted to build 14 - 16 works with a height of between 144 and 182 metres. It is for comparison almost the same height as Sweden's highest building, Turning Torso. The inhabitants of the southern archipelago joined forces with a number of nature friends to try to stop the plans with reference to their living environment and the natural and cultural values that were at risk of being damaged. Although thousands of people were involved and the matter was finally brought to justice, the municipal energy company did not fail. Only after the Land and Environment Court had said no and the Land and Environment Court had not granted leave to appeal could the southern archipelago population push out. However, the wind power in Hakefjord was never stopped by reference to the opinion of the population or by concern for their living environment. It was not even stopped on the grounds that natural and cultural values would be damaged. The reason why the park was not granted permission was that it wanted to build the works on contaminated dredging masses. A construction there, like onion on the salmon, could have caused an environmental disaster for fish- and bottom life in the sea outside Gothenburg. Mr President, I would like to I have nothing in principle against wind power, quite the contrary. Building wind turbines where they have minimal environmental impact can, together with solar power, be a complement to an energy mix consisting mainly of nuclear and hydropower. But it surprises me that the Government is showing so little interest in introducing protection mechanisms for nature, culture, recreational values and living environments, such as those in the southern archipelago of Gothenburg. The living environment of the 5 000 inhabitants cannot be waved aside as a special interest. It is incomprehensible to me that there are no national guidelines that guide municipalities in how to deal with the expansion of wind turbines in sensitive areas. Mr President, I would like to I therefore agree with Lars Beckman's question. Why is the Government not prepared to give Boverket such an assignment? Why is the Government not interested in protecting the living environment in our coastal areas so that it is not destroyed when wind power is being expanded?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-151	Mr President, I would like to Government of Bolund! Electricity is a prerequisite for society to function today. There is what I understand an ambition that 30% should come from nuclear power for the time being, 30% from hydro power and 30% from wind power in principle. It's a brutal extension going on. Just as Lars Beckman has mentioned in the interpellation, it shares communities. It's getting messy. A lot of people get pissed off at this and get into trouble with their neighbors, depending on whether you're for or against. It splits communities. The wind power plants also damage the environment. They're not very beautiful. Speaking of the Green Party, one should be a little more concerned about the natural values. At least as a moderate, I am concerned about the values of nature and property rights. Does Minister Bolund think it reasonable to place these works in the periphery, far from the core networks? Wind power is very inefficient compared to nuclear power and hydropower. Now the cold strikes in Sweden. What happens then? When it's cold it rarely blows; then wind turbines stand still. Instead, you buy lignite from Poland. Is it environmentally friendly? Does Minister Bolund think it is environmentally friendly to buy lignite from Poland instead of having nuclear power? Does the Government think it's good to close Ringhals and buy brown coal? Why doesn't the government want to start Ringhals and build a new nuclear power plant? Two more nuclear power plants are needed in Sweden for us to have proper power supply. I can only refer to my constituency. In Täby, Arninge, Ica wants to build a new Maxi store. Then Vattenfall answers: We cannot guarantee the supply of electricity to you. In Täby in Stockholm County in 2021 you cannot guarantee that there is power to an Ica store! Then energy policy has fallen, I would argue. The most environmentally friendly is nuclear power, with total zero emissions. There are also big plans. Already a lot of electric cars are being built, charging stations are to be set up and people talk about electrifying roads. I want to ask the Government how to get energy for all that. How can you handle it when it's not even possible to build an Ica store in Arninge? The Government is guilty of the answer in this Chamber. It feels like the Green Party is running placard politics instead of rational politics. Of course you can have some wind power as a complement, but you can't build Sweden's electricity supply on something that stands still and doesn't give anything when it doesn't blow.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-158	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to see how an interpellation develops into more of a moderate campaign against wind power. It seems that there is something of a strategy from the Moderates to counteract, question, throw gravel into the machinery and stop the development of an energy type that is renewable and which leads to the fact that we can also reach the parliament's and the government's target of 100 percent renewable electricity generation. That's surprising. You usually hear from the Moderates' side that you do not oppose any types of energy that do not increase the climate impact, but now we all hear what is in the cards. Should the Moderates lead the next government, we will have a development that throws in trouble, stops, stops and reverses development. That is very worrying, I have to say, and I think everyone who heard the last three speakers could hear that there is now a campaign of false arguments and questioning. We all know, and the statistics show very clearly, that we have a historical electricity surplus, a surplus that has not been seen for many, many years and which corresponds not only to one but to a number of Ringhal reactors. The fact that there would be a shortage of electricity is therefore a completely incorrect description. On the contrary, we see how wind power is now increasing very much in Sweden. Sweden is at the forefront internationally when it comes to using our own flowing energy source wind and thus also become more self-sufficient on electricity. Unlike nuclear energy, for example, which is still dependent on imports of uranium from Russia, for example, we are getting an energy type that is actually dependent on and uses our own indigenous energy sources. In recent years, SEK 100 billion has been invested in Swedish wind power. It is, of course, a fantastic investment development that naturally also leads to many new businesses and jobs across the country as we are now expanding a green and sustainable energy source. I must say that I am concerned about the attitude of the Moderates on this issue. It is clear, as I also said in my interpellation response, that we have authorities who have a responsibility for the living environment and health of Swedish citizens. When it comes to noise, it is clearly the Environmental Protection Agency that is the responsible authority. They also constantly make recommendations and underpin them with science, research and knowledge, which may not be the strong arm of Moderates if you listen to previous debaters. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also produced guidelines and new analyses as late as December, where you have guidelines of 40 decibels equivalent level. A review has also been carried out of the research situation regarding interference from wind energy noise, and it is also based on the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considers 40 decibels to be a well-balanced benchmark. Clarifications have also just been made as to where the benchmark should be applied and under which operating conditions it should apply. The Moderates usually say that you don't want unnecessary administration and too much regulatory hassle. Then you wonder if the Moderates seriously mean that we should have two different government agencies to do the same. Should two government agencies analyse the state of research? Should two government agencies analyse how the noise from wind turbines affects people and residents in the environment? Or can one perhaps also understand from moderate quarters that the authorities in Sweden actually communicate with each other and that the results produced by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also benefit, among other things, Boverket?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-166	Mr President, I would like to We can all note the total lack of empathy shown by the Minister for Housing with all the tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of people affected by the massive wind power expansion in Sweden, which takes place exclusively with Chinese companies, among other things. It is clear that I share Kjell Jansson's concern that Sweden's energy policy will rest on a Chinese dictatorship that will then govern Swedish energy policy. I am sorry about this. Mr President, I would like to This interpellation is therefore not about the Chinese dictatorship's investments in wind power in Sweden, but about how people are affected – people of flesh and blood. It is about the man in Hälsingland who very touchingly describes the consequences of the large wind farm built next to him. He describes how he began measuring the sound levels at his house, first with an app in his phone and then with more advanced equipment that he borrowed from the municipality. The measurements showed 48 decibels, i.e. 8 decibels higher than the allowed 40, and since the scale is logarithmic, this means that the sound intensity doubles every time the decibel value increases by 3. Imagine, Mr President, that you had a house where you could sit on the terrace and enjoy the chirps of the birds and hear the buzz in the trees! This man describes that what he is hearing now is a noisy wind farm. It is also about the family who lives in the Söderhamn archipelago. They have chosen to live there because they want to live beautiful and close to nature. They want to see the beautiful coast. So they don't want to live at a carnival. I share the view of the Government: there is a massive expansion of wind power, but we must also respect the people involved. That is what this interpellation is about, and that is why I believe that the Boverket and the responsible authorities must take into account the psychosocial environment. There are representatives of a party who have mentioned climate dictatorship and that they should run over the population. It was even some leading environmental party who said that if he gained power, he would abolish democracy. I do not share that view. I believe that the people affected by wind power expansion must have a great deal of influence. That is why I am concerned, Mr President, about the answer given by the Minister for Housing and the Government when, for example, Gävle City Council uses its veto. In a true democratic spirit, councillors from all parties in Gävle have used the municipal veto, and what was the answer from the Minister for Housing and the Government? Well, you want to make it difficult for and prevent the municipal veto. That is why I have asked the question: how does the Minister want to increase the municipal influence that allows the people affected by this issue to make their voices heard locally in the municipality and area concerned? The intervention is not about being for or against wind power, as Mr Josefsson said, but about how we should strengthen local influence so that the psychosocial environment is not destroyed for those affected by wind power expansion. The problem now is that where the need for electricity is greatest, very little wind power is built, while the habitat is destroyed for all the people living in rural areas. That is why I ask the Minister for Housing: how does the Minister want to strengthen local influence?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-176	Mr President, I would like to The story of the wind farm in Hakefjord had a happy ending. The Land and Environment Court recognized the absurdity of building a wind farm in contaminated dredging masses. Today, Gothenburg Energi is also not governed by environmental parties. However, the issue of the establishment of wind farms is still being discussed around our country. As I pointed out in my previous speech, I have nothing in principle against wind power. I know many landowners who have brought wind turbines onto their land, thereby creating value, jobs and energy in their home country. As is usually the case with individual landowners, this has been done with great care for the local environment and neighbours' living environment. What I am calling for are tools and guidelines for municipalities to also take into account living environments and natural and cultural values when wind farms are to be established, especially when it comes to publicly owned energy giants or multinational companies with no connection to, or care for, the district. Wind power should be a realistic complement to an otherwise well-functioning energy mix, not an ideological bat in placard politics. Therefore, it should also be a matter of course with clarity on how to protect the living environment in the case of wind power expansion. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the question for the Government seems to be more about political prestige than about the conviction about the positive properties of wind power, which makes one completely blind to its negative environmental impact. It is sad, and it shows once again that environmental policy is far too important to be left to the Green Party.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-181	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by assuring Minister Bolund that the Moderates are always in favour of new technologies. There is no discussion on this issue. We always have. The whole party is tech friendly. Is it a power shortage or not? There is a shortage of electricity when you cannot supply electricity to an Ica shop in Täby. Then there can definitely be excess electricity in summer time. It depends on the hydropower when it has rained a lot and so on. That could be the case. But there are many times also electricity shortages in Skåne. There is the alternative of buying electricity produced from lignite from Poland. Does Minister Bolund think it is environmentally friendly? In my world, it's definitely not like that. In my world, you will start Ringhals and build another nuclear power plant in Forsmark and ensure that there is electricity. I have a few questions for Minister Bolund. Does the Government intend to abolish local self-government in the establishment of wind power? The Government has previously indicated this in the press. Will the Government make this a reality? Will the Government abolish municipal self-government? This is an extremely important and principled issue, especially for me who have been municipal councillors for many years and know what a municipality can have with the state. I know what a mess it can be with county boards when you're going to build or when it comes to beach protection. As always, politics drives the state authorities, and they cannot strike the balance that local politics can achieve.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-186	Mr President, I would like to It was a complete explosion of misinterpretations, overinterpretations and misinterpretations, as well as directly misleading information from three bourgeois moderate debaters. The truth is that in principle every day, every hour, our electricity surplus replaces coal power in Poland, Germany and Central Europe. It is something that we are proud and happy about and should continue to be. The pretend play that the Moderates are engaged in when it comes to Swedish electricity production is surprising, if I say so nicely. Anyone who reads Swedish electricity statistics can see what it looks like, i.e. that Sweden has a surplus of electricity over the year. Most times of the year, for example, Swedish electricity is delivered to Poland and Germany, replacing coal power. It is also completely wrong to say that the government would somehow ignore the natural environment or the like. It falls on its own absurdity. What I am saying, and which I hope we can agree on, is that it is good that the authorities are responsible for exactly what the interpellier asked about, that is, how we deal with noise issues in Swedish legislation and supervision, how we deal with building permits issues and the legislation that applies when new properties are to be built linked to noise. There are already structures in place. There are already principles on how we are responsible for the issues. To argue in interpellations or vague statements that we do not take the issues seriously makes me wonder if you want another authority to do the same. Is that the purpose? The government does not support that. We believe that it is a good thing that an authority is responsible for every issue, rather than doubling the governance of the state. I thought the Moderates were behind such a principle, but I obviously have to reconsider. I am, of course, provoked – as is the point – on the issues of democracy. I have also been a local councillor, and it is of course completely ridiculous to even suggest or claim that we want to restrict local self-government in some way. Nothing is more foreign, and it is a completely incorrect and provocative description. On the other hand, the Government has set up an investigation to review how the municipalities can affect wind power expansion. That is because there are major problems with the model that exists today. Often the municipal veto comes into the process late, which of course creates uncertainty for the builder. This also applies to residents in the municipality, who do not know which decision will apply until perhaps at the last second. Many times the municipalities have made a decision and at a later date made a different decision. Here the Moderates can say that decisions always go against the citizens of the municipalities, but I can also remind you that it can be exactly the opposite. Municipal citizens may expect and believe that there will be a municipal veto against the wind power plant when the municipality decides at the last second to say yes and build the wind power plant. That is why we think it is time to review the regulatory framework and think about how the voices of municipalities and municipal citizens should be heard, how we can ensure that they come in earlier so that they can participate and influence more clearly. We will not remove the municipal veto without replacing it with another. It is clear from the directives for the investigation. Generally speaking, the Moderates want to forget the influence of municipalities. It is important to point out, since the Moderates seem to want to mislead on this issue, that it is the municipalities that are responsible for planning in terms of location and design. It is the municipalities that have a master plan and identify suitable or unsuitable areas for wind power. When the municipality develops a master plan, it must be coordinated with the neighbouring municipality. Then, of course, municipal citizens will also have the opportunity to influence. It is clear that the Moderates are campaigning against wind power development in our country. It's worrying. There are many jobs now at risk if the wind power set-up that has taken off is not going to continue or if a progressive green-red government is running the policy at risk.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-194	Mr President, I would like to I'll give you what was in Gefle Dagblad yesterday. This applies to residents who will be affected by a possible wind farm in Sandviken: a risk that it will be like a disco in the sky. Then Jenny Lundberg describes in detail and comprehensively how her habitat is at risk of being destroyed. I note in the debate that the Minister for Housing's empathy with those affected by the strong wind power expansion in Sweden is very limited. It is the natives who have their habitat severely affected. One might wonder why the Minister of Housing does not want to commission his own authority Boverket to support municipalities and others with precisely planning how to take into account people who are affected. How should you take into account that those who have chosen to live along the coast in Gävleborg should not have their habitat affected? I find it provocative, Mr President. I cannot understand how one can represent a party that has an environment in its name if one does not want to consider how the habitat is affected. It's troubling. When the Director-General of Boverket visited the Civil Affairs Committee, I asked questions. Does Boverket have a mission? Are you working on questions about how the habitat and psychosocial living environment are affected by wind power expansion? The short answer was that the work has not received such a commission from the government, that the work is not working on that issue at all. I'm surprised Boverket didn't get that assignment from the government. But it may be that it is so ideologically important for some parties that one simply ignores all the hundreds of thousands of people who have their habitat affected because one thinks the issue is so important. I can only regret that. I can assure you that after the elections, the new moderate-led government will take into account people's habitats.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-199	Mr President, I would like to I think that everyone who has seen the debate has noticed that on several occasions I have said that the environment is, of course, at the heart of the commitment of the Green Party. This applies, of course, to both global climate issues, where we know that wind power is a renewable energy type, and local conditions. I have also made it clear that this is not an issue that is not on the state agenda. On the contrary, there are authorities that already have a designated responsibility to assess the impact of noise on human living and health. In this situation, the Moderates, apparently for purely populist reasons, want the government to double the responsibility and ensure that more authorities, perhaps the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency or the Finnish Transport Agency, take responsibility for noise issues related to the living environment. I think it is good that we are renouncing so that different authorities have different responsibilities. I am concerned by the frivolity of the Moderates when it comes to those questions. But it may be the case for the Moderates that frivolousness may apply to wind power, but not to other issues. We note that there is a moderate campaign against renewable energy in general and wind power expansion in our country in particular. As I said, it is so far SEK 100 billion that has been invested in wind power in recent years. Normally we do not say no to 100 billion in investment or question or try to stop this development. It is of course a great opportunity for Sweden that we now have huge investments that provide opportunities for energy production, for new investments and for new companies and new jobs throughout our country. I have to say that I am concerned about this, and I think that the Swedish people have reason to ask themselves what will happen if the Moderates get the government power after a change of power. Then these investments will in various ways be prevented, stopped and not able to move forward any further. I think that was made clear in this debate. I find it sad that this is the way it is. But it can be trusted that the Green Party will continue to work for a sustainable environment, both globally and locally.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-205	Mr President, I would like to David Josefsson has asked me what consideration I took of the objections from the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB) and the Swedish Public Health Agency when it was decided to instruct the said authorities to send a mass text message. Furthermore, he has asked what instructions I gave as to what information would be communicated to the public through the mass mailing. After the summer we could see that the spread of the virus causing the disease covid-19 increased and that the situation was and had been very serious for a long time. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government and the relevant authorities have taken several decisions on new councils, restrictions and other measures to reduce the spread of infection. Nevertheless, the situation remained serious in December, and it was still of the utmost importance to endure and follow current advice, recommendations and restrictions. The Government therefore assessed in December 2020 that there was a need to reach the widest possible extent of the population in order to draw attention to the fact that the Swedish Public Health Agency's strengthened national regulations would take effect on 14 December 2020. This is particularly true in the run-up to Christmas holidays. After dialogue with MSB and the Swedish Public Health Agency, the government assessed that the benefits of a text message reflect on the objections raised earlier by authorities. The purpose of the text message was to inform and encourage the public to follow the advice available to reduce the spread of the virus that causes covid-19 for upcoming holidays and holidays. Through a text message, the information was assessed to be able to reach a large part of the population effectively. The four largest telecommunications operators – Telia, Tele2, Telenor and Tre – participated on a voluntary basis in the practicality of the mailing without claiming compensation and have thus made a significant contribution to Sweden's efforts to reduce the spread of infection. The Swedish Public Health Authority and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency were commissioned by the Government to produce and coordinate the text message to the public and collaborated with relevant stakeholders in the preparation of the message. The authorities were responsible for the content of the message, and in order not to contribute to the misuse of the text message for fraud purposes, the authorities chose not to include a clickable link to Krisinformation.se. The mailing is the first mass sending of text messages to the public made in Sweden. The number of visits to both Krisinformation.se and msb.se increased significantly in connection with the mailing. Krisinformation.se had on Monday 14 December 3.5 million visits, which is 65 times more visitors than on Monday 7 December 2020.
i-7pAt4npER68VERriExMmH9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are in the midst of one of the worst crises in modern times, in a pandemic of over 2 million deaths globally and over 11 000 deaths in Sweden. In my county of Västra Götaland, nearly 1,800 people have died in the pandemic so far. With this interpellation, I would like to try to clarify with the Minister for the Interior what led up to the text message sent to the public made on 14 December last year. The text message, which was sent from the somewhat cryptic sender Read more on the website Crisis information. ..................................................... Criticism did not wait in the media and social media. Several communication experts pointed out that the text message lacked concrete information about what the reinforced advice meant, a link to further information and information in English. The fact that the text message was considered to be an important and essential part of the government's and government's information efforts was made clear on 11 December. At that time, Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg and Minister for Digitalization Anders Ygeman, together with representatives of both the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, held a press conference to announce that a text message was to be sent. In a press release that was sent out in connection with the press conference, Minister Damberg says: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to After the text message had expired, it turned out that the Swedish Civil Protection Authority had refused to use mass text messages as it could block other emergency information. It was also warned that it could lead to high pressure on social media that would require working time to be taken from other important activities. Despite this advice, the government carried out the decision to carry out a mass mailing. The question is, therefore, how the government took these objections into account when deciding on a mass mailing. The content also raises questions. That the text message did not contain any link directly to the reinforced advice referred to – or any link at all – was first explained with technical limitations. It was later modified to not want to send links because it would bring to mind fraud-sms, something that the Government returned to now. That the text did not contain information in English has also been attributed to technical reasons, including in a box of facts in the press release from which I have just quoted. The Government has stated in its reply that the authorities were responsible for the content, but what instructions did the government give the authorities regarding what information was to be communicated to the public through the mass mailing? Or perhaps the government just decided that the text message would go out without giving the authorities any instructions on the content? And, Mr President, what technical reasons mean that a text can only be written in Swedish and not in English? Is the Government satisfied that the text was written only in Swedish, especially as he himself justified the purpose of reaching the entire population with relevant information? I'm sorry, Mr. President, but this whole story feels like a hasty mess. My final question will therefore be how long a dialogue was held with the relevant authorities before the now famous press conference was called.
i-FWwUiAFsrHY6xP7P9N2Lgq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, David Josefsson, for an important interpellation about information about the pandemic! Yes, those of us who followed the media during those days noted that the government and the authorities seemed almost ridiculous. Not least in social media, this text message was compared with those who had gone out in neighbouring countries and in the United States and who went out very much earlier in those countries. That question has not been asked by David Josefsson, but the Government may still know why it did not use extensive information campaigns via text messages earlier, for example. I think Denmark did so quite early, in the spring, and with much better information than the Swedish government gave. Then one can regret that the text message did not reach everyone in the population. Not least the minister might have had to be reached by the text message. Are similar measures planned in 2021? Are there situations in which technology will be used in this way, and what experience has been gained? With today's technology, it is quite easy to direct information towards different areas. It may be that in parts of Stockholm, for example, it should be in other languages. It is perhaps the case that you regionally, for example in Skåne, have a situation where it is really required that you go out with information while in other parts of Sweden you do not have the same need. What conclusions has the government drawn from the text message and are similar activities planned? And why did they wait so long? Is what David Josefsson suggests, that there was an almost panicous situation? Then it's clear that there wasn't much time for planning – it was important to hold a press conference and try to show action, but the content of the text message might not have been as good as it could have been.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-227	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellant's questions about the text message! I interpret the questions as interested and serious. Otherwise you can interpret it as wanting to argue about whether a text message is good. I think SMS services are good. I think we will see much more of it in the future. I want to start by being very serious. At the beginning we discussed whether we should send out important messages to the public, which is the legal form of information to the public. However, the authorities make their own assessments of what the legislation allows and do not, and several authorities believe that a much more acute event – gas emissions, fire or explosion risk in the area – is needed in order for Important Communication to the public to work in that form. We talked about this issue for a long time with the Authority. It wasn't a hazelnut. The previous discussion on this was, therefore, quite much about Important Communication to the public – when is it judged to be useful, and when is it appropriate? There we in the government received quite clear signals that it was not thought that this would fit in there. After all, it was about more long-term information, albeit introducing new, tougher restrictions that would apply from a certain date, and that is what we wanted to draw attention to. It was not about the emergency phase of an accident, for which important communication to the public is actually intended. That's why we started looking at other solutions. It turned out then that the four largest telecommunications operators were willing to contribute to a mass-sms mailing, and we were very happy about that. But it also meant certain technical limitations, such as restrictions on the number of characters. There may be other cases where you can write much longer messages, but in this case it was the shorter form of mailing that we got access to. The government had looked at MSB's objections, but since we did not use Important Notice to the public, some of the objections fell. After all, the concern the authority had was primarily linked to Important Communication to the public. There were also discussions about what the system could do – if there was a risk of overload, if there were disturbances of 1177, 113 13, and if people were to start calling 112 and so on. We didn't see any of this. We saw a very large traffic to Krisinformation.se. There was much more traffic than ever before during the pandemic– I think we were up to 3 1⁄2 million visitors this day, and that shows that there were many who went on there. We have not affected the content of the mailing except that we wanted the authorities to work with the new, tightened restrictions that would apply and that this was the purpose, so that people would have knowledge of what would apply for Christmas and New Year holidays. But it is the authorities that have designed it. Krisinformation.se contains information in 20 different languages, I think. There are a lot of restrictions and balances, and not all existing restrictions can be included in a text message. It is therefore necessary to refer to a place where there is more comprehensive information and, for example, several languages. That was the balance that the authorities made. We haven't received the evaluation yet. MSB will return with an overall assessment of the experience gained. My conclusion is that Sweden will use more text messages in the future and in more forms. We are not planning for that right now, but there may be a situation where you need to use that kind of communication again. I think it is good that we have done this and that we have learned in the process.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-236	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for everything! The Minister says that there has been a dialogue with the authorities about a VMA. That's interesting in itself. Nevertheless, I would like to dwell on that point. In a TT telegram published on the evening of December 7th, MSB claims that Sweden is planning some mass text messages. It was because Sweden had contacted Finland, which had recently sent out information via SMS – a text that was written in Swedish, Finnish and English. Then I'll be a little perplexed. If the government planned a mass mailing earlier than three days before the press conference, why didn't MSB tell us about it? Or had the government not told MSB that such a mailing was planned? I also think you can think a little about the statistics about how many people visited Krisinformation.se when the text went out. As the Government says, traffic increased to 31⁄2 million visitors. Had it been a regular marketing effort, it would have been a fantastic result. However, it should be remembered that Sweden was in a catastrophic situation where the spread of the disease ran and intensive care poured on to hit the capacity ceiling. Is one third of the target group you want to achieve a good enough result? I don't know. I think it's worth thinking about. I have nothing against the government making a decision on a mass mailing. Perhaps it, as Lars Beckman was into, should have gone out much earlier. Our neighbour Denmark sent a text message to the population already in March. In addition to concrete information, it also contained four links. I can buy that it was justified to send a text message in December. The Corona strategy had more or less broken down, the spread of infection increased sharply and the health care system was in danger of being faced with a literal system collapse. What is actually the government's objection regarding VMA or mass mailings is that in a national crisis situation you should not only launch a text message but have some dialogue with the authorities about what information it should be. This text did not contain any concrete information about what the advice meant or about how the population should behave. It did not contain any link where such information was available, nor did it contain any information in English – this despite the fact that, according to the Government, the purpose was to reach out widely with relevant information. My question is quite simple: What really was behind the text message? Was it a well-considered part of a well-thought-out strategy to clarify and inform about the new advice to groups that had not previously been reached by the message, or was it a hasty incident in a situation where the government felt the need to show action?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-243	Mr President, I would like to I believe that in 2021 v i will be in a situation where there is certainly a need for both rapid and relevant information to citizens, especially those citizens who are unable to follow the extensive live press conferences that have been and those citizens who are not in the habit of going into the websites of Dagens Nyheter or the evening newspapers. How do we reach those who have great language difficulties? There, texting has a function, because then you reach everyone. Then, as David Josefsson says, it is very important for them to be able to take in the information that comes, for example by having it available in several languages. We have been able to see neighbouring countries that have sent out much more extensive information like text messages. Not least, the sender is important. Anyone who is not very good at Swedish and gets a text message in Swedish with a link may think: What is this? The efforts made by the government must reasonably be in order to reach those who do not have the same opportunities to absorb information as those who are more able to follow the news flow. There I share the view of David Josefsson and the Government that text messages can be a good thing. Then it is also important that it must be part of a strategy and that it should be done in the right language. I would therefore like to ask the Government again: Is there any thought of sending out in other languages, for example, so that even those who are not good at Swedish can take in the information? I think that's very important. Is there any thought or strategy with what and how and why you do it?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-247	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has received a broad information mission. It is about informing about the efforts that need to be made and about the advice and recommendations that exist and about coordinating messages from authorities. Krisinformation.se has been built up, which is the place where authorities provide comprehensive information on what applies from each authority. There you work in 20 different languages. But you don't just work with these more formal channels. You work through associations. They work through county boards and regional and local authorities to reach out to groups and areas that do not otherwise receive information. They work with films in different languages and with people who enjoy great trust. They work through churches and parishes. There have been artists involved. Thus, people are working widely to reach out to groups that may not usually receive government announcements or news information. It is an important work that continues. This time it was not about reaching a certain group; we wanted to reach out widely in society. That's the point of a mass mailing. You can have different views on the link issue. We chose not to decide how the authorities would act on whether to have a link or not, but the authorities themselves could act and present the information in a good way. They chose to refer to Krisinformation.se without a link. MSB struck a balance. A concern about mass dispatches concerned the issue of fraud. There are quite a few internet frauds in Sweden, also internationally, and this can be exploited in different ways. The police advised against a link, for example. There were a number of concerns that caused the authorities to make their decisions, but they did so on their own advice. I think it should be interesting to see the evaluation and also to learn lessons. It was the first time we had done this. I'm sure it'll be better. It was a limit to 140 characters. Had you not had that limitation, there would have been a completely different opportunity to work with different languages, even clearer senders and so on. I think we've learned quite a bit from this. But it can also be said that it was good that we did this, so that 3 1⁄2 million people went into Krisinformation.se. It's better that they did it than if they hadn't. I think we have shown that it was right that the government took the decision and told the authorities to do so. Then we will have to consider whether the authorities could have done differently, and the authorities will have to draw their conclusions. I think, as I said, we'll see more text messages. There are also opportunities via the VMA system to use text messages. It can be done in different geographical areas, in case of an accident or so. Technology and regulation have developed very well, so that we actually have an opportunity today that did not exist before. But I can reveal that I will take the initiative for a slightly broader review of the VMA system. It is not only about how we use VMA in peacetime, but also about how we use, for example, important communication to the public during increased preparedness and war. There, the systems and regulations are not sufficiently clear and thorough. I see that I can come back to Parliament with a review of the VMA system that we can discuss in the future. I believe that text messages will be an important part of the future system for communicating to the public. In the event of accidents, pandemics or danger of war, it may be important to be able to reach out with this technology.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-255	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I initiated this debate because I wanted to sort out what really happened before the decision on a mass mailing was taken by the government. I'll pay tribute to the Prime Minister. I think he has given sincere and good answers to some of the questions in this debate. He deserves credit for that. What I think we may not have had much response to is: how worked out was this decision? Was it part of an elaborate strategy, or was it more of a whim? I can only draw my own conclusions, Mr President. It seems that the government wanted to demonstrate its ability to act. It also called for a press conference with two ministers and representatives of two authorities to tell about the news of sending a text message. Unfortunately, the ability to act did not mean that the text message was designed so that it could actually give maximum effect and reach out wide or to new groups. Much I think is due to the fact that responsibility for the content was entirely transferred to the authorities, which were only given – at least to believe the press data provided by MSB – a few days of preparation time and which, moreover, had fundamentally opposed the sending of a text message. If the purpose was to get all Swedes to go into Krisinformation.se and assimilate the information, I still think it may be said that it failed. Only one in three Swedes entered the website that day, despite a national crisis situation that we have not experienced in the post-war period. My conclusion is that what has worked in other countries as an effective part of the public information campaign is unfortunately more like a pr-jippo here, with a text message without any concrete advice, links or information in other languages. That, Mr President, cannot be described as anything but a failure.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-260	Mr President, I would like to Then it became a bit polemic and political at the end anyway. Perhaps we should wait for the evaluation and see how the authorities assess the dispatch and what effect it has had. The fact that one third of the population went into Krisinformation.se without a link well shows what interest there was in sending out and in seeking information. I do not think it should be described as a failure when you get so many people to introduce stricter restrictions actually go in and read about the new advice and recommendations in a format where everything is gathered. It must still be better than they hadn't. It is true that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency had a number of objections and concerns, especially for the use of Important Communication to the public. But we grazed it in a dialogue that was going on for quite a long time. Then we came to the conclusion that this should be done. It was then done by mutual agreement between several authorities when they were given that task. I think we have learned from this and we will continue to learn from it. But it is not possible to criticise the government for both things. The government is criticised for not listening to MSB's concerns and criticisms – they talked about why they should not be able to implement this. Then the government made the decision anyway. At the time, the government is criticized for making the decision and thus carrying out a text message that made 3 1⁄2 million people actually go into Krisinformation.se I guess somewhere you have to decide if the government was right or wrong. I am of the opinion that the government did the right thing. We took the concerns of the authorities seriously. They were given responsibility for designing the text message, and they will have learned a lot from this. However, I am absolutely sure that in the future we will be using SMS to a greater extent than we are today, and I believe that this mailing was part of learning more and also reaching out to more people with restrictions. I note that the Swedish people seem to have taken the advice and recommendations seriously, because the spread of infection decreased after the Christmas and New Year holidays. We hope that they can endure and continue to endure when the infection decreases in Sweden.
i-WRNRi1of9NrHzQN2TLsLZr	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Åsa Lindhagen. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-266	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has hit companies and jobs very hard in Sweden. Thousands of companies are now struggling for survival. Thousands of entrepreneurs are waiting for information as to whether or not they will receive emergency state aid, because the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Center Party and the Liberals have handled crisis aid rather badly. The government has been slow, and it has often taken months to return with concrete rescue packages and before the money comes out. In the meantime, companies and jobs risk disappearing unnecessarily. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: What will he do now in concrete terms to bring forward the payment of emergency aid to affected Swedish companies and thus avoid the mistakes he and the government have made in the past?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-268	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for an important question! We are in a deep crisis and a global pandemic that is hitting human lives hard. Millions of people are infected, thus increasing their suffering. It also hits jobs and entrepreneurship. The government's strategy from the very beginning has been to save human lives and curb infection, but also to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is against this background, Madam President, that the government has so far proposed or implemented decisions on the equivalent of SEK 374 billion of taxpayers' money in efforts to both manage the infection and mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. You can look at how entrepreneurs have received this. Almi Företagspartner recently conducted a survey of companies showing that three quarters are satisfied with the efforts. But we are still in the midst of the pandemic, and that is why we will have to continue working to help each other through this tough situation.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-271	Madam President, I would like In the middle of autumn, the Minister for Economic Affairs announced that those entrepreneurs who lost a lot of their turnover last summer would receive special crisis support. The other day, a concrete proposal came to Parliament. Entrepreneurs are not yet able to apply for this money. At best, they can apply for and get money in March or April. It's eight nine months later we're talking about, and there's a chance they're going to get really hard on this. I wonder: Why has the Minister of Economic Affairs acted so slow, and how does he estimate the risk of jobs being lost in the meantime?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-273	Madam President, I would like We are in a very difficult situation. Then it is important that we stand together and do our best to overwinter in this tough situation. Then it's a little bad that the Moderates are just trying to score party political points. We work faster than any other government has ever done. I know that many entrepreneurs are in a desperate situation, and we will continue to work with them and preferably also with the Riksdag to overwinter in this situation and take Sweden out of both the pandemic and the deep crisis that has hit many of our companies and employees.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-276	Madam President, I would like The government recently published an action plan against segregation. The most provocative of this action plan is that it presents the causes of segregation as a mystery. Something has happened in the last two decades, it says, but you don't really know what. I would therefore take this opportunity to tell the Minister what has happened. The reason why segregation is worse than ever and much worse than in our neighbouring countries is that we have a kind of migration policy anarchy in Sweden, that is, over the last few decades almost anyone has been able to move here for any reason, without demands for their own livelihood or law enforcement.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-279	Madam President, I would like It is very clear and has been the case in the past that the Swedish Democrats and my party are working in different realities. There we have something that we agree on; you don't have to like everything differently. The single most important factor that drives segregation is economic divides, and this is something that I think we would need to talk much more about in Swedish politics. There are many of us who unite across party boundaries in that segregation is a major problem in Sweden that hits hard on not least children's growing-up conditions. This is something that many of us want to do something about. Then, of course, there are links to integration. When we welcome people from other countries to Sweden in the best possible way, of course, segregation can be a major obstacle in the way for people to establish themselves. This is something I could develop for longer if I had more time. We definitely need to talk about the causes of segregation and do something about them.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-283	Madam President, I would like I would like the Government to take that analysis one more step. If we now have a very large immigration of people who have little or no education and who come to Sweden and get caught up in unemployment, it in turn leads to economic divides, which in turn leads to segregation, according to the Government's own logic. Is there not, then, a fairly direct link between very large immigration which is poorly planned and a segregated society?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-284	Madam President, I would like It is very clear when it comes to Sweden's social problems that the Swedish Democrats have a clear agenda that everything depends on migration. But no, not all economic gaps are due to the fact that we have received people from other countries. It depends on a variety of things. We could, among other things, discuss tax policy and how to tackle the gaps and create good opportunities both for those born here in Sweden and for those who have come here, so that they can create a good life here. There's a lot of work to do.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-285	Madam President, I would like Sweden is often mentioned as one of the world's most equal countries, but when the Commission for Equal Living Income this week produced its report, it became a rather cold awakening. They note that nothing has happened to women's income since 1995. They call it an accident. The interim report shows how public support measures are distributed between women and men, and the result is rather disappointing. For example, women generally take out benefits such as parental insurance and health insurance, which compensates for a loss of income due to higher absenteeism, while men more often receive business support to a different extent, giving them more favourable taxation and bringing them closer to the labour market. The authorities lack gender breakdown of their individual statistics, although this is a requirement, and gender analysis is lacking.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-289	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Vilhelmsson, who highlights these extremely important issues. The Commission set up by the government recently produced its report, which is part of the process. It shall present its final proposals in December. The work done by the Commission is extremely important. The basic reason why we appointed this Commission is that we see that we have a lack of economic equality. We see that these gaps between women and men do not narrow in the way they should. I therefore fully agree with the problem picture. There are many things we need to do. However, an important element is the proposals that the Commission is going to make in December of this year on how we can take steps forward to ensure that women and men have the same economic power. As I have said in many contexts, money is power, and power is to be distributed equally. I therefore very much look forward to the proposals that the Commission will make in the next step. But this information and knowledge that we received was also very valuable.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-293	Madam President, I would like Then we agree on long-term measures. In the short term, we have a year behind us with corona support. We know, for example, that the vab-reimbursement is something that consolidates inequality economically through life. Has the government made any evaluation of the aid awarded during the year? I might as well address this question to Ibrahim Baylan. It is serious if state aid consolidates an already unequal structure. Has there been any evaluation of the Corona subsidies? Have these glasses been worn?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-295	Madam President, I would like This is a very important question. A very important part of the Corona Commission's work is to look at gender equality. It's a special mission that it has. What you are highlighting, Helena Vilhelmsson, is very important. What are the results of the support we have received? It is clear that gender equality is at the heart of the government's work. We want to create greater equality. However, it is also important now to have an evaluation and constantly to have a learning experience on the work that has been done in this crisis. What can we do even better in the future? There, gender equality is a very important part that the Corona Commission is going to look at.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-297	Madam President, I would like Many of the sectors most affected during the pandemic are also industries where fixed-term contracts are common. At the same time, it is people who work on temporary contracts who are the most vulnerable in the labour market. Today, temporary workers are required to be laid off before a company can benefit from the lay-off aid. This puts both employers and employees in a very difficult situation. We Christian Democrats do not think that is reasonable.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-299	Madam President, I would like We're in a very difficult position. The very rapid introduction of support for short-term work, what is called short-term lay-off, has been necessary to save Swedish jobs. Last summer, the Institute of Economics estimated that around 200 000 jobs could have been saved so far with this support. One of the requirements for us to be able to take part of it – I think we basically share an opinion about it – is that we should have financial problems. So you should have taken a number of measures yourself to adapt the suit in the crisis before we go in with taxpayers' money. One of the interpretations that has been made is precisely the one that Camilla Brodin points out. I am, of course, prepared to discuss all the measures relating to screwing these systems so that they become even more accurate. Basically, it is about helping Swedish companies and making sure to save Swedish jobs.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-303	Madam President, I would like It sounds promising that we can continue to discuss this but also move from words to action. Many companies, as you know, have waited an unreasonably long time to be told whether aid will be paid and when. It is no news for the government that this is the case. It's been like that since the summer. We know that attempts at action have been made. But the effect has not paid the dividends that we all thought it would pay. For a long time, is it reasonable for companies in crisis due to restrictions imposed to have to wait?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-306	Madam President, I would like The situation is difficult and even desperate for certain sectors. Then it is particularly important that we, as representatives of the public, do not carry out false tasks. For example, in the case of short-term work, which is the most important effort, the average time last year was eight days for a response to the first application. When to go in and check it takes a little longer. And if the application is not complete, it takes time, because you have to check that it is the right company that really needs this to have the money.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-309	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anders Ygeman about how his department prepares for a situation where the interlayer Clab becomes full, because the Ministry of the Environment continues to be tough on the ball by moving on with that issue. Are there preparations for dealing with such a situation? Will some reactors have to be stopped in advance so that they can work longer overall? Or do you plan some kind of compensation to owners if you do not have an intermediate warehouse where there is room for more nuclear fuel and so on? Does the Government's own ministry have any plans to deal with the situation that will arise with regard to our supply if the question of Clab is not resolved?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-311	Madam President, I would like I thank Joar Forssell for the question. Of course, we are following this issue closely, even if it falls under the Ministry of the Environment, which is responsible for the final disposal issue. The question raised by Joar Forssell may arise even if the question is resolved, because the question is at what time it will be resolved. Ultimately, of course, it is those who run nuclear power and produce waste who are responsible for ensuring that they can also take care of the waste that is created.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-314	Madam President, I would like Ultimately, it goes without saying that the producer of nuclear waste is also responsible for its proper management. But it is clear that it is Anders Ygeman who in his role as Minister will be responsible for and ensure that we have energy and electricity supply. It risks being threatened if the Ministry of the Environment does not get started properly and present this now, so that we resolve the issue of the interlayer Clab. What does the Ministry's preparations look like for the situation that is at risk?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-316	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned, we are, of course, looking at this issue. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that it is the actors themselves who bear the ultimate responsibility. It is true that I am responsible for the energy supply in the country. Then I can rejoice Joar Forssell that we have the largest surpluses of electricity ever in Sweden.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-319	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Never before has so much been done so quickly for so many. During the Coronandem, the Riksdag has decided on 13 extra budgets, and now even more people are taking on saving lives, businesses and jobs. Through these subsidies, thousands of Swedish workers have been able to keep their jobs instead of losing them. At the same time, companies have been given the breathing space they need. The broad and large support that the Government and the Riksdag have decided on is unprecedented in modern times of peace. I therefore wonder whether the Government has data on the number of jobs and businesses that have been included and that are covered by the forthcoming broad and major support efforts.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-324	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Bayibsa for the question. It is correct that we are in an extraordinary situation. On the other hand, we have never experienced a pandemic in modern times. Therefore, from the very beginning, from March and in the spring, summer and autumn, the government has presented proposals covering, more precisely, SEK 374 billion of taxpayers' money. This money has been used to strengthen health care and care for the elderly – our response to the pandemic – but also to mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like So far, more than 600 000 Swedish employees are covered by one of these programmes. The assessment is that about 40% of active companies in our country, namely 200,000 companies, have benefited from some of these subsidies to ensure that both companies and jobs in Sweden are saved during this pandemic.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-327	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Baylan for his answer. I don't have any follow-up questions.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-328	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ibrahim Baylan. It is about Sveaskog, which is perhaps not so surprising given the loud criticism that has been directed against Sveaskog during both autumn and spring. Among other things, 29 Sami villages have merged in an article and demanded a cut-off for hanging forests. Sametinget has also issued a joint opinion calling for Sveaskog and Sweden's forestry to adapt to and respect the rights of the Sami constitutionally protected. We also know that Ibrahim Baylan has received 45 000 signatures, which have been submitted together with a demand to give Sveaskog a new ownership directive.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-331	Madam President, I would like We have quite a lot of demands on state-owned companies. They should act as examples, they should act sustainably and they should act in accordance with the directives they have from the Riksdag. In the case of Sveaskog, double applies: one should act in a competitive market, of course, but one should also act as an example in terms of sustainability. It is correct that there have been a lot of criticisms and views. It makes sense when we talk about our common forest, which is managed by Sveaskog. It is also the case, as Rebecka Le Moine knows, that, in the framework of the cooperation we have both in the government and with the Liberals and the Center Party in the so-called January agreement, we have agreed to review and make a new Sveaskog programme. It is about ensuring that the company can be run in the best way and to make a new Sveaskog programme, where you can also protect more of valuable forest.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-333	Madam President, I would like Yes, I am well aware of what is stated in the January agreement. I am also well aware of the bids made by various parties in the run-up to the elections, and it said that the Social Democrats were open to giving a new ownership directive. Now you've changed your mind. My question is: Is Ibrahim Baylan ready and prepared to give a new ownership directive to Sveaskog?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-335	Madam President, I would like I think you should always have humility, especially at a time when we need to make quite major changes in our society and how it works because the old way of doing things doesn't really work in the future, not least from a climate perspective. When it comes to Sveaskog, we conduct a continuous discussion with the management, and of course also within the government, about how we can ensure that the company works well both in terms of the competitive part and when it comes to developing sustainability work.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-336	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi. Madam President, I would like It has soon been a whole year since the pandemic started. There are very many employees out there who are at risk, and one of the tools to reduce the spread of infection is preventive sickness benefit. With preventive sickness benefit, employees do not have to put life and health at risk. On this issue, however, the government has been very slow. Every time we have dealt with this in committee, it has come at the last minute, and it has been done on the committee's initiative. We're in 2021. It's almost a month. There are thousands of people out there in society – in our society – who are entitled to compensation but have not received it. When will our taxpayers who are entitled to preventive sickness benefit receive their rightful money?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this important question, Mr Arin. I would like to say that we have worked very closely with the Social Affairs Committee and the Social Security Committee in Parliament on the development of this benefit, which was developed specifically to provide financial protection for the groups belonging to the risk group defined by our authorities. This privilege has been introduced in record time. Thus, in record time, we have developed a completely new social security benefit, in cooperation with the Riksdag. The benefit is now extended, due to the situation we have in society. The Parliament will take the necessary decision in accordance with the budgetary rules, and as soon as that decision is made, the government will of course take the decisions required in the regulation for payments to be made. This is how cooperation between Parliament and the government looks at a very difficult situation. Just pay tribute to this cooperation. It is about putting aside all prestige and working together to put citizens' needs in focus.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-342	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of cooperation, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, but I do not see it as cooperation when it dims down a press release an hour or two hours before the committee is going to consider an initiative. But now we are where we are, and I am in favour of cooperation. We are at the end of January, and people have not received their money. My question is: when are you going to fast-track the matter in the Committee on Finance so that people get their rightful money? Their bills must be paid.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-344	Madam President, I would like As far as the handling of proposals by Parliament and the Committee on Finance is concerned, it is a question that should be put to Parliament; it is not something that is governed by the government. But as soon as the Riksdag has made its decision, the government will act as quickly as possible, so that people will receive their payment. It is extremely important that the groups affected by the pandemic and unable to work receive financial compensation and receive the financial security they deserve.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-345	Madam President, I would like The number of young people with disabilities who have lost their activity compensation tripled between 2016 and 2018. A review by the Social Security Inspection shows that neither case law nor the law have changed, but that the government's signals of tougher governance have affected developments. Recently, it was also noted that, despite extensive medical certificates of reduced work capacity, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency interprets the law more strictly than is necessary. This puts too many of the most vulnerable in Sweden in a totally unreasonable economic situation that is psychologically stressful.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this important question, Monika Lövgren! The report that came from the Social Security Inspection before the Christmas holidays was shattering, and it was a report that really confirmed the image that we have had of an increasingly restrictive assessment of the examination of the right to sickness benefit and activity benefit. We can't have it like this in our country. We need to have financial security for people who are sick and unable to work and for people who have a disability and because of it have lost working capacity or have limited working capacity. We have an investigation that will present proposals for changes to the rules on sickness and activity benefits. These proposals will come in June. My hope is that all parliamentary parties will then be able to put aside the prestige and cooperate so that we can remedy this. It is people of flesh and blood who are affected by the very restrictive legislation. There are also criticisms about governance issues, as this report shows. We take that criticism very seriously. We have a new Board of Directors in Försäkringskassan and a new Chairman of the Board, and we will do what we can to develop the governance and dialogue with the Treasury so that people's needs are put in focus.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-351	Madam President, I would like Investigations in all honour, and the proposals will, I understand, be presented in June. But the Swedish Democrats believe that the most important thing today is that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is given the opportunity to have a legal interpretation that helps the vulnerable groups and not the other way round, as the situation is today. So it is rather urgent to do something.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-353	Madam President, I would like The Government has taken several measures regarding the governance of Försäkringskassan. We have also given assignments regarding health insurance related issues that are about strengthening security. When it comes to legal enforcement issues, the government is, in accordance with the Constitution, limited in its ability to govern the authority, and therefore a further amendment of the law must be made. The law in force in Sweden since 2008 is extremely restrictive. We must therefore change the law in order to adapt to the needs of people, and that calls for cooperation between the government and the parliament.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-354	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are partly in favour of the government making a temporary freeze on the assessment of work capacity at sickday 180. However, we call for a special freeze for those who are long-term ill in covid-19. My question therefore goes to Minister of Social Security Shekarabi. Knowledge of this virus is still severely limited, affecting rehabilitation opportunities. This is clearly stated on the website of the National Board of Health and Welfare. It states that: a knowledge of covid-19 is still limited and the assessment of work capacity and the need for sick leave needs to be based on the individual's unique conditions and employment. ..................................................... On 15 March, the freeze will end and the long-term covid-19 ills will again be put at risk of being covered. The new provision which then comes into force does not help this group. My question is therefore: does the Minister not see the need for a temporary freezing only for long-term ills in covid-19 so that there is a sufficient period of rehabilitation?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ingemar Kihlström, for this important question! We do not need a temporary change in health insurance, but we need to fix health insurance. It has broken down and makes people who are ill and who have lost their working capacity not entitled to the benefits to which they have paid in the form of social insurance. It was very good that we took a few steps before the Christmas holidays. We changed the highly criticised regulation for day 180. We stopped the insurance day 180 until the new law comes into force in March, but it is only a first step. We need to change the rules for day 365 so that Swedish citizens get financial security when they are waiting for rehabilitation or are in the middle of rehabilitation. We need to change the concept of normal work, so that people are not judged against non-existent fictitious jobs. This requires cooperation between the Riksdag and the Government. We are prepared to act to strengthen health insurance. I welcome the fact that parties are rethinking, rethinking and are prepared to contribute to improved health insurance.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. But the fact remains: Although the disease is new, it can already be seen that the government has handled long-term illness in covid-19 slowly and rigidly. Last autumn a number of long-term ills with covid-19 fell between the chairs. Where are the initiatives for research and knowledge on rehabilitation for this group? If you take information from the National Board of Health and Welfare, there is a need to freeze the assessment for this group. Can't the minister see this need?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-363	Madam President, I would like Let me remind the honourable Member Ingemar Kihlström that until November the Christian Democrats and the Moderates fought for health insurance to be even more restrictive. It's good to reconsider. We are prepared to work together to improve health insurance. We must welcome any party that takes a step in the direction of strengthening health insurance. We must be prepared to cooperate. The proposals are on the table with the government, and we are prepared to present them as soon as there is support for these proposals.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-366	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman. We in Sweden and our surrounding world are facing a tough and necessary climate change. The whole of society and all sectors must make their energy consumption more efficient and switch to fossil-free fuels, biofuels and electricity. We need to switch our energy system to a higher share of renewable energy while achieving our climate targets by reducing emissions from industries and from the transport sector.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-369	Madam President, I would like The whole world is facing this climate challenge. Sweden is one of the countries that is absolutely the best. We have among the lowest emissions from energy production, and we are ranked as the country in the world that has the best climate policy. In recent years, we have also contributed through electricity exports to help other countries meet their climate challenge. Last Thursday I received Fossil free Sweden's hydrogen strategy together with Per Bolund. The Government's ambition is, of course, that we move forward with it and ensure that we have a national hydrogen strategy in Sweden that is in harmony with the hydrogen strategy adopted by the European Union. Hydrogen will, if not in the future, be part of the solution to Sweden's and the world's energy problems.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-371	Madam President, I would like How good that the government has now decided to develop a strategy for hydrogen! This will, of course, be an important part of the transition. My question is: When does Minister Ygeman envisage this strategy being completed?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-373	Madam President, I would like I hope we will have a strategy in place within a year. The reason for this is that we want this strategy to help all those who are now about to invest in different energy solutions and that we want their important input in this work. We have, for example, Hybrid, the world's first carbon-free steel, where hydrogen is intended to be used as an important component in meeting the climate challenge.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-376	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen. It is unacceptable that, in one of the world's most equal countries, we now see equality in the area by area going in the wrong direction. We can see that the number of rape reports is increasing. Young women's exposure to sexual crime in Sweden has increased by 360 percent since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. Only five out of a hundred rapes lead to a conviction. Four out of ten young women choose another route or another way home in the evening because they are worried about being subjected to crime.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-379	Madam President, I would like I will not do anything to improve the statistics while we have a large number of darknesses. It is good that these extremely serious crimes are reported, but then there must also be the capacity of the police to catch up on this. These are serious crimes. Those who commit these crimes are to be held accountable; that is my clear opinion. The government has an investigation in progress looking at tightening up the penalties for all sexual crimes. It's a very important investigation that I'm looking forward to seeing later. Legislation and the handling of these serious crimes are, I believe, an essential part of the work against sexual violence. We also need to work preventively. We need to improve sex and cohabitation education at school. We have made a decision that all teachers should learn about sex and cohabitation. We also need to work towards destructive man standards, which we know have a connection with violence. We do not accept this violence. It must have consequences for practitioners, and we must do what we can to prevent violence.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-383	Madam President, I would like The so-called feminist government has betrayed these women. This feminist government focuses on elitist issues about quotas for company boards or hides behind symbolic policies, such as the new Gender Equality Agency, but forgets all the gender equality problems women experience in their everyday lives, such as being worried about the way they travel in the evening.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-385	Madam President, I would like Here again we have an example that we sometimes live in a little different realities. Violence against women and honour-related violence and repression is one of the government's most prioritised issues, which I think is quite clear. However, I would like to thank the Member of Parliament, because I think these are extremely important issues that Malin Höglund highlights. I also see that we have a great deal of commitment across party boundaries when it comes to putting an end to this violence. One of the most important things, as I have already mentioned, is that the judicial system is vigorously tackling these crimes. We also need to work on prevention and support for victims.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-388	Madam President, I would like Child marriage is a terrible crime, and it should provide a very long prison sentence for all involved. Nevertheless, the maximum sentence for child marriage offences is four years, which in practice means a few months' imprisonment. Crimes against women and children simply do not seem to be a priority for the government. A Max of four years is the same punishment as in the case of serious damage at one time, which means that you can get the same punishment as if you, for example, break someone's car. Of course, a child's marriage should give far more severe punishment, as it actually takes away the child's entire life. Nor does there seem to be any harsher penalties for child marriage in connection with the forthcoming regulation with a special classification for honour crimes that are currently being referred.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-391	Madam President, I would like I am extremely pleased that the government has been able to put in place a child marriage crime. It has been extremely difficult in the past to obtain convictions in these cases. I fully share the view that these are very serious crimes. We have girls in Sweden today, 2021, who are sleepless for fear of being married away and subjected to rape. I am also pleased that we have taken the step that Parliament voted through with a new law on exit bans and the possibility of taking care of passports. It is very important to prevent girls being taken abroad and married away or subjected to genital mutilation. Legislation is extremely important. The penalties are of course extremely important, and the m can always be open to discussion. But then we also have to work on how we ensure that the girls, women, but also boys who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression receive the support and protection they need. We also need to talk about the work of social services in this.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I find it tragic that it has taken so long before anything has been done in the fight against these vile crimes. Honour issues at all are nothing new in Sweden, so something should have been done much earlier. I would therefore like to ask the question: why did the government not act earlier? Why are stricter penalties and laws not imposed? Why does it take so long before something happens?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-398	Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the government has taken the initiative to bring about the child marriage crime and the exit ban, and legislative processes are time-consuming. I, as one of the few ministers who have come in as new, feel very grateful for the job that was also done during the last parliamentary term. Why we have not acted in the past against the violence of honour is, I think, a very legitimate question to put to politics, when we have years behind us when there has been discussion about honour violence at all. At least we have begun to leave that behind, and I am also very happy about that.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-401	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. There is much talk of how we will manage future pensions when the proportion of older people grows. We live longer and longer, and that is very good but also challenging. We Social Democrats have talked, among other things, about the provisions for pensions, but also about the fact that we have to work further up the age bracket, and that is also an important discussion to take. Before I got the voter's confidence to be in this Chamber, I was a nurse, and I am a nurse. It is Sweden's largest professional group and very dominated by women. Among my colleagues, it is not uncommon that you do not have the energy to work until 65; you get worn out long before. Working longer, to 67, 70 or 75, as I think Reinfeldt suggested, seems completely unreasonable to them. But the anxiety then creeps into the fact that they receive a lower pension, so I want to ask the Government how it will affect those who are unable to work until 65 when the retirement age is raised.
i-7X5d2pTuzDWvqPx96jLpXS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Caroline Helmersson Olsson, for the question! We are living longer and it is reasonable that we work longer. A lot of people get the opportunity to work longer and have the opportunity to work longer, and that's good. But a lot of people wear out their bodies because they work with their bodies. Nurses, construction workers – we have large occupational categories where the body is still being worked. These people have no financial security since the rules on disability pensions and sickness benefits became very restrictive, especially through legislative changes in 2008. They are forced to take out their old-age pension early when they have worn out their body at the age of 62 or 63, and then they reduce their pension for the rest of their lives. I meet many such nurses. That is why it is an extremely important piece of work that is going on right now to make proposals on specific older people's rules, so that a valve is created for Sweden's workers, that after a long working life that has worn out their bodies, they should have a financial compensation and not be forced to withdraw their old-age pension early. We are inspired by Denmark where this happens.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm glad the Government thinks this way. Of course, there are lots of things you have to do for people to be able to work longer. After all, health and safety issues are not on the government's table. Nevertheless, I thank the Government for working on the matter and hope that we can move on with it in the future.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-412	Madam President, I would like Swedish entrepreneurs' distrust of the police's ability to protect them from crime increases, so much so that it affects how Sweden ranks in economic freedom. Every year Economic Freedom of the World Index is published, which measures the degree of market economy in 160 countries. In 2015, Sweden was in 19th place, but in the latest edition is Sweden in place 46. The indices weigh together various surveys, and the main reason why Sweden is falling is part of the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Report. Entrepreneurs in different countries have been asked if they trust the police's ability, and here Sweden has been losing continuously since 2010. It is also a picture that is confirmed when you meet entrepreneurs, among other things in Gothenburg that I come from.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-415	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, worried every time I see such tendencies, both among entrepreneurs and the general public. The foundation of our whole democratic society is, of course, trust in and confidence in the public, but also in people-to-people. That is why, ever since the day we took office, this government has tightened its penalties. There have been some thirty penalties for serious crimes, gun crimes, and more. We also have the ambition to employ more people in the police department so that confidence can be strengthened. It's about 10,000 more police employees by 2024. It is work in progress, and the assessment by the police is that this goal will be achieved. I don't think there are any shortcuts. We must both tighten the penalties for those who commit crimes and prosecute the crimes through more police officers and police employees. We must also, Madam President, work closely with the business community and prevent as many crimes as possible. I believe that these are the only ways to strengthen confidence in the future.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-418	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Energy and Digitalization Anders Ygeman. Global mega-companies with a monopoly-like position in the digital market are increasingly taking the right to influence democratic elections through, among other things, the de-platforming and suspension of political opinion-formers – this despite the fact that it is clear that what is said fits within the limits of freedom of expression. When this issue comes up for debate, both the Prime Minister and Minister for Digitalization Anders Ygeman welcome the suspension of the political opponents of the Social Democrats. I think the government's inability to adopt democratic principles is astounding. Rather, the back-marrow reflex for a social democrat seems to be that everything that benefits the Social Democrats is good. Then to my question: would the government have welcomed this kind of performance from mega companies such as Google and Facebook if it had been Social Democratic party representatives who had been affected?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-423	Madam President, I would like Now the reason for the suspension is not that they are or are not Social Democrats, but that they have called for violence or terror. That's the basis for Twitter shutting down 2 million accounts, including Isis and Al-Qaeda. So far, I have not seen any Social Democrats calling for violence or threats online, but would that be the case, of course, I also support their suspension. I think it is reasonable for companies to be able to set such terms of use. In fact, I believe that the Swedish Democrats, when they have thought about this matter for a moment, come to the same conclusion, namely that we should have rules that regulate the big internet companies, but that these rules cannot mean that they themselves, together with the users, should not be able to set up the terms of use – this regardless of the political colour of the users or the actors in the social media.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-425	Madam President, I would like We are in a very difficult situation, said the Minister for Economic Affairs in a previous answer here today. Yes, some entrepreneurs have a very difficult situation. The lay-off aid has been used to a greater extent than expected and the conversion aid has been very much less than expected. The point is that lay-off aid cannot be used for rents and other fixed costs. We're talking travel, hotel and restaurant, clothing. Industry by industry, business by business, it's really hard. They need help. Companies have given priority to their staff. Companies have given priority to trying to remain open. The companies have not cancelled; they have rescheduled. But the government's support is not getting through.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-430	Madam President, I would like Ever since the crisis began, we have worked intensively with the business community and the Riksdag to get support in place. This has been done through 13 additional budgets with tens of different support measures, including rental aid, lay-off aid, conversion aid, turnover aid, reduced social security contributions, the removal of sickness pay liability and more. So far, programmes that are either already in use or are proposed include 374 billion of taxpayers' money. I think it's the right money to spend, and, yes, we're doing our utmost to get them out too. However, it is important that the money reaches out to the right company. It must not be completely unchecked so that they end up with organised crime or cheating. None of us want that. The money is for those companies that really need it in this difficult situation.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-434	Madam President, I would like Match fixing is an issue that has been in the hot air for the last two years due to the re-regulation to the gaming license and the establishment of the Matchfixing Council. Since the beginning of the work, the same Council has pointed out concrete things that need to be done, including allowing for the sharing of personal data between the relevant authorities. Nevertheless, it took the government a year and a half to set up an investigation to look at the issue. Madam President, I would like At the same time we see that the work to counter match fixing slopes and now stands still, allowing criminal leagues to infiltrate the sport even more. Does Minister Shekarabi share the concern that more and more matches have been fixed before the game starts? If so, why not do more?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-438	Madam President, I would like I thank Angelika Bengtsson for the question. Match fixing is a threat to trust in Swedish sports and trust in our society and will be smoked out. This was one of the reasons why the government and parliament cooperated and reformed the gambling market. After two decades of the Wild West, we took control of the gaming market on January 1, 2019. This work has now intensified, and a while ago came the new regulatory framework that bans certain gaming objects associated with the risk of match fixing. A short time ago Gunnar Larsson's work also started. He has the government's mission to, among other things, coordinate the work against match fixing and propose the rule changes that Angelika Bengtsson touches on his question. We take this issue very seriously and have a close dialogue with Swedish sports, especially the Swedish Football Association and the Swedish Ice Hockey Federation, and the Swedish Gambling Authority on these issues. We will do what is necessary to put a stop to match fixing.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-444	Madam President, I would like In quite exactly five minutes, restaurant staff across the country will leave bar, kitchen and serving to step out of their restaurants. Once outside, they will make noise by putting pots and lids on with kitchen ladles and other things – this in a protest against the government. They protest against the fact that the government has consistently imposed restrictions during the pandemic that have exclusively affected the restaurant industry, against the fact that the government's alcohol ban deprives free traders of the sale of high margin products and against the fact that the government's support measures are either not paid out or are not yet available. A crisising industry is out with money for the government, and bankruptcies are being piled up.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-448	Madam President, I would like I'm amazed at the description. Which country do the Swedish Democrats live in? From the time the pandemic began threatening human lives and the spread of infection increased throughout our country, industry by industry – industry, trade, travel industry, restaurant business, hotel industry and others – has had difficulties to operate. We are in a global pandemic. Don't the Swedish Democrats see that? We have taken steps to mitigate the effects of this, but I fully understand the frustration in a number of sectors which, not only in the spring but also in the autumn and winter, have been and are in a difficult position. Against this background, we have ensured that there is support. The hotel and restaurant industry is one of the industries that has received the most support, but that is not enough because we are still in the midst of the pandemic. We will continue to work with them to support them and to get through this very difficult situation together.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-453	Madam President, I would like Years of savings in women-dominated elderly care have reduced the quality of care and the work situation of staff. This has been made clear in particular during the coronapndemine. It is about working conditions that very few other people would accept with a high proportion of hourly employment of unskilled workers, shared tours, multi-shift work and poor wage development. This allows trained, competent staff to go to other professions to cope with everyday life, to solve the tough life puzzle and increase their quality of life. Minister for Equal Opportunities Lindhagen! Is it not time for the feminist government to raise the status of care workers and, once and for all, to ensure that they have decent working conditions?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-456	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. I welcome this discussion. It is good that the discussion about how women in low-wage jobs have been raised more and more in society. I fully share the view that this has not been a sufficient priority, and it has therefore been an important issue for the government with the welfare billions going out to the public sector. Both the Green Party and the Social Democrats believe that it is important that social services have the resources they need to provide support to people who are struggling and able to give people who have worked their whole lives a fine last time in care for the elderly. Increasing resources in the public sector is also one of the best things we can do to strengthen working conditions for women, because a lot of women work here. They make fantastic contributions and should have the right conditions to be able to do their job.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-461	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I and the government intend to evaluate the Coast Guard Act in the near future in order to improve and refine the legislation, how I see that Coast Guards would have ports as an extended direct area of activity, if I have any plans to grant Coast Guards the right to fine poor cargo securing in the port, whether it concerns means of transport going out on the sea or on the road, and if I intend to take any measures to increase efficiency through increased operational cooperation between the police, the Customs and the Coast Guard, as well as the possibility of facilitating confidentiality in operational work. Coast Guard is a unique government resource with active year-round maritime surveillance and extensive capacity to operate at sea. The specific competence of the Coast Guard means that the Authority is primarily responsible for tasks that are naturally related to the Authority's main mission, which is civil protection at sea, maritime surveillance and crisis preparedness and total defence. The main activity is carried out at sea, although certain activities are also carried out on land. The Coast Guard is responsible for the supervision of both outgoing and incoming transports of dangerous goods in the port's land area, regardless of the means of transport used. The Coast Guard participates in S amtill, a cooperation body for authorities responsible for the supervision of the transport of dangerous goods by land and managed by MSB. The Coast Guard is therefore already operating in our ports. Coast Guards carry out checks on both dangerous goods and cargo securing. The work involves checks on carriers and means of transport to be carried out on the road, rail or sea. The Coast Guard carries out checks both independently and in collaboration with other authorities such as the Police Authority and the Customs Authority. The Coast Guard has the power to issue the necessary injunctions and prohibitions, but also to prevent further transport from port if necessary. On the other hand, it is up to the Police Authority to prevent further transport by road. Effective law enforcement and control and enforcement activities require effective use of the authority's specific competences. In order to achieve more effective activities and coordination of the authorities' efforts to monitor compliance with the rules of professional transport, the Government decided on 22 August 2019 to instruct a special investigator to review the operation of road traffic control activities and to propose improvement measures. The investigator shall, inter alia, identify and analyse the current control activities of the authorities and propose measures to strengthen them in order to further improve compliance with rules. For example, the Directive provides for greater coordination of authorities and more exchange of information. The investigator shall also consider whether there is a need to review the responsibilities and the distribution thereof between the operators carrying out checks on professional traffic. The assignment shall be presented by 30 April 2021. Of course, there are also other reasons for closely monitoring developments in this area. As the Coast Guard Act has only been in force for a relatively short period of time, it is a little too early to evaluate the reform, but such an evaluation may be necessary in the future.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-469	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The purpose of the Coast Guard is to protect life and the environment at sea both now and in the future. When the government sent out the proposal for a new Coast Guard Act, it stated that it would allow for more and better interventions and that society's resources at sea could be better used. In fact, I think we can make better use of society's resources everywhere. When you decide something, it can sometimes have unwanted consequences. You might have to decide. When small so-called childhood diseases are cured, you can wait for a time to conduct a major investigation. What am I really talking about? Mr President, I would like to I have visited the Coast Guard at sea, port and air, as well as their training and headquarters. It has been fun, instructive and extremely interesting. Of course, a lot of questions arise. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for all the thousand questions I have had to ask. One example of an outcome of the new law that may have been slightly wrong is that the Coast Guard could previously check and report recreational fishing from jetties, islands and beaches. But today the Coast Guard has to call the police if they sense trouble in the reeds. This also applies, for example, to hunting islands. Is this really the way it was meant to be, that is, one authority needs to call in another when you are the one at sea? This is the time, Mr President, to decide. Coast Guards, police and customs have collaborated in ports to prevent stolen goods from leaving the country. I've been there myself. It was very interesting and also exciting. But one thing that became clear at the time was the confidentiality of the authorities as well as the various tools they have in their work. For example, one law enforcement authority may use one app, but the other cannot. I also noticed this when I was out in Lake Mälaren and caught speed breakers on watercraft. In this case, I am thinking of the app that the police may use to make records. When we stopped a speed breaker on a jet ski outside Stockholm's inner-city quay, the Coast Guard had to take the ID, call the police and wait in the telephone queue. This telephone line could be quite long, I had to describe for myself. Then an answer was given whether the person was a known dangerous person or an ordinary person who drove too fast. If the Coast Guard itself had been able to do a registry repair, it would have saved time and been safer from a work environment and safety perspective. Moreover, waiting in the telephone queue is not reasonable. It is not very effective; we want effective law enforcement. When I was with the Coast Guard in Nynäshamn in December we found a trailer with four cross bikes. It would have been clever if one could then enter a register to quickly see if it was stolen goods or not. It would also have been good to avoid the telephone line when we found a large truck that was feared to contain stolen goods. Once we found the right number, we had to wait in line. Does the Minister not agree that it is possible to make this much more effective?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-479	Mr President, I would like to The issue is important. I believe that we will see developments in which the authorities are now becoming much more effective in their digitisation work. One such authority that from a bad position takes rapid steps forward is the Police Authority. The merger to a central police authority in Sweden had generally poor IT systems and poor technical support. It had to begin to straighten it up and has now come quite far in the work with the systems. In dialogue with the activities, digital support is now being built that facilitates the operations. When the apps move on, the police will be able to streamline their work and have already done so. It will turn out that they have completely different opportunities to speed up their work than before. There will be an expectation that all this will also work between authorities. But it's not always that easy. There is a need to consider powers between different authorities. What do you have a right to do? I believe that the authorities themselves must go through this a little more carefully and make proposals to us. What's the interface? What can you do today? Is it possible to share certain information? Is there a legal framework that prevents it? What would need to be done? I do not rule out the authorities coming back to us and saying that they see opportunities in certain areas to exchange information more quickly, but first we have to turn and reverse a certain regulatory framework or regulation in order to move forward. I am open to such discussions in the future. Control activities are a very heavy activity, and Coast Guards help with it in the port environment. There is now a major organised work. The entire control activities of different authorities should be reviewed. I look forward to the investigator making suggestions on this. I do not know what proposals are coming, but one question that is being investigated concerns the exchange of information between the authorities, that is to say, greater cooperation. One should also consider which responsibility should lie at which place and with which authority. Is there any reason to change it in any way? The investigation will soon be presented. I look forward to having this further highlighted by the investigation that has worked with the control activities. I do not rule out that we may have to make changes. On the other hand, I expect the authorities, as far as possible, to consider how they will interact and dissolve any knots that may exist. Sometimes, however, it is impossible, and changes to the regulatory framework may need to be made. I look forward to seeing such ideas in the future as well.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-485	Mr President, I would like to I agree that digitalisation is important. But can there be a risk that you do not want to dissolve the knots? There may need to be initiatives from parliament and government. Ports are not a direct area of activity, but certainly the Coast Guard has a certain activity there, such as cargo securing. Coast Guards have the maximum right to prevent a cargo carrier with poor cargo securing from being loaded on a ferry. It will be a correction and a little bark, but there will be no more consequences than that they will be allowed to stay ashore. On the other hand, when a carrier arrives at the port, coastal guards may only check dangerous goods or randomly look for any hidden stolen goods. So there are no powers at all here. At maximum, drivers may be encouraged to fix this or call the police. Would it not be more effective to fight crime if we could then also have some kind of consistency? You don't have enough load securing, so you're not allowed to drive on our roads. Perhaps even a fine could be imposed in place, perhaps in both cases. I agree with what the Minister initially said about making use of the special powers of the various authorities. But I also think that we need to create opportunities to be flexible and effective and not bureaucratic. Would it not be clever, Minister, to be able to improve safety effectively both at sea and on the roads?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-489	Mr President, I would like to I'll say yes and no. Yes – I think it would be wise to look at where boundaries exist between different authorities and perhaps to a certain extent give greater powers, so that they can be more effective in their handling. I point to the investigation, which will come up with its proposals on 30 April. Then we will see if the investigator has found the points of intersection where you need to either give new powers or shift powers between the authorities in the control activities. I'm looking forward to it. I don't know what they'll come up with, so I can't comment on that. Then why do I say a little provocatively even no? Because Coast Guard is a unique authority with specific competence. There is a risk that you want to use the Coast Guard for everything else. As the responsible minister, I am also responsible for maintaining the Coast Guard and ensuring that it is able to carry out the task that no other authority is capable of carrying out, that is to say, operating at sea in the way that it does. Yes, I think you can find boundaries where adjustments can be made. I'm looking forward to the investigation. But I want to protect the core mission to the Coast Guard so that we don't try to solve the police's problems with the Coast Guard. Let's make a historic effort on the police. I have high expectations that control activities will also be developed by the police. We can all be self-critical there, I think. The police have not had enough control on roads of dangerous goods, cabotage and other things. We have had too lax a regulatory framework in Sweden and Europe. It has competed out serious skiers in Sweden and flagged out to other countries. People have come here without following the rules. They haven't paid the taxes and charges you're supposed to pay. As a result, they have also endangered health and the environment on the roads in Sweden. For us, it is important to get the roads straight. That is why I look forward to the investigation that will be carried out into the control activities. The Coast Guard is a unique resource that must be given the time and energy to operate within its main mission. That is the balance I think we should remind ourselves of. Just because the Coast Guard is close to land, we shouldn't let them take over more and more land data. I believe it is important to preserve their unique competence and focus area.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-494	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister – it is clear that the Coast Guard will focus on its unique mission. But there is also a need for effective law enforcement. If you are there, have opened the truck and see the problem, you should have to fix it instead of lifting the phone, calling the police, waiting and waiting. Then the police may not even be able to come. It does not look so good, especially with regard to Sweden's external image, towards other countries, when other skiers – as the minister also was at – may have competed out Swedish skiers and then nothing more happens than that there will be a little blaha blaha. I don't think that's okay. The investigation to strengthen the control of professional traffic referred to by the Minister is a good one. I also welcome it when it comes in April. It's pretty soon. Please note, Minister, that I do not complain on my part that it is taking too long. But then I hope that the Minister will take this along with being able to prevent and fine, perhaps already in place, both when transport comes to ports in Sweden and when they leave ports. I think that we could actually get much safer transport both by sea and on our roads then. I also hope that the Minister will consider making some minor changes to the Coast Guard Act right now. I hope that the Minister can take the initiative to increase efficiency and counteract red tape between authorities, so that we can have a more effective fight against crime across Sweden.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-496	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexandra Anstrell for an important interpellation. I want to start where the interpellier left off. I really believe that effective cooperation between the various authorities is the way forward. We've seen it. When we get collaboration between different authorities, it works smoothly and well thought out. Then we get much better results from the business. We gain efficiency and can use the unique specialities and powers of the respective authorities. It will be very powerful when, for example, fighting crime or ensuring safety and safety on the road and at sea. We have strengthened the regulatory framework with regard to the possibility of squabbling and the possibility of setting charges for those who violate the rules. Let's make demands on studded tires. We also have tougher demands on procurement issues, so that one cannot dump and get rid of one's responsibilities on the road. It is a great job that is now being done to sort out the roads. I look forward to the investigation proposal because I think there is more to be done in terms of both the exchange of information and the right demarcation of powers and cooperation. I look forward to perhaps discussing the matter again after the investigation. Then I hope we have received several wise ideas on how to take the business forward. I'm really open to making changes in the future.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-499	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the passing time for hunting crimes by police and prosecutors. He has also asked whether I believe that, given the current situation of a lack of both police and prosecutors, a reasonable priority is being given to the resources of the judiciary. As I have said before, it is important that criminal investigations are conducted as quickly and efficiently as possible. The Government's policy, with the implemented and continued announced resource enhancements to the Police Authority, aims to improve the Authority's ability to investigate and prevent crime. We also see that the transfer time within the police for cases reported to prosecutors regarding hunting offences was shorter in 2020 than in 2019. That's a good thing. The Police Authority has carried out a review of how the handling of serious hunting crimes can be improved and streamlined. In this work, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have also been involved. The results of the method development work will be summarised in the form of a manual that is deemed to be completed during 2021. During 2020, a collaboration group on hunting crimes has also been formed under the auspices of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, where the Swedish Police Authority, among other things, participates. The government is carrying out a historic expansion of the Police Authority. The goal is for there to be 10,000 more police employees in 2024 than in 2016. We're halfway there. The contributions received by the Authority in previous budget proposals ensure the continued expansion this year. The allocation for 2021 is just over SEK 1.9 billion higher than in 2020. For 2022, additional contributions of SEK 1.65 billion are proposed. The amount of resources to be allocated to investigations of hunting crimes is a matter for the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office to assess. This depends, among other things, on the inflow of cases. In their internal allocation of resources, the authorities need to ensure that they have the ability to fulfil their statutory tasks, including investigations into hunting crimes. The provision of resources is also a prerequisite for their timely investigation.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-504	Mr President, I would like to Why have I put this interpellation? I have done so because this is an important issue of legal certainty in the rule of law. It is stipulated by us in the government that a preliminary investigation should be conducted promptly. Why, then, is that important? Well, of course, because the person who is accused of a crime – in this case it is a case of suspected hunting crimes – should have the right to have his or her case tried promptly and be either convicted or acquitted. Unfortunately, Mr President, there has been a huge increase in transit times since 2014. In 2014 it was a pass-through time of 146 days, and in 2019 it was 169 days. The longest cases that have been going on have now passed 500 days. What are the consequences for the individual? I have met a number of people who have been identified, including a group of hunters in Hälsingland. When you hear their stories, you are not proud of the Swedish judicial system. There are stories about how a large number of police officers get in at six in the morning and arrest the person. They have press conferences and more or less point these men out. In any case, they feel singled out. In one case, the father dies of a heart attack. It's awfully touching. Then it won't be a week. It won't last a month. It's not a quarter. It won't be a year. It won't take two years. But three years later, the case is dropped in Hälsingland. You can't even imagine what it's like to be pointed out in a small town like Alfta for three years because you've been suspected in an illegal wolf hunt. Swedish Hunting magazine has asked representatives of the judiciary: How could it take so long? A prosecutor says: I can only regret that the police put this matter aside. The consequences for these hunting enthusiasts are that they have not been hunted. They've been stripped of their weapons. They have been identified in the local media as having engaged in an illegal hunt for wolves, and three years later the case is closed. Mr President, I would like to I may think that the government and the responsible minister must remedy this. Even hunters need to know the rule of law. In a case noted in the national media, the suspects have appealed over and over again in every way possible. They have said, through their defense attorneys, that we should be brought to justice. Let's prove our innocence. Now this case will come up in court soon, and we'll see how it goes. Obviously, there is something that is aggravating on this issue. I would have liked the government to have acted more forcefully on these issues so that hunters can also feel the rule of law.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-512	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman, who has asked an important question in the interpellation! The urgency of preliminary investigations is, as Lars Beckman said, extremely important. It is a question of having our rule of law and of living in a democracy. This week we have celebrated our democracy perhaps a little extra. It feels great that a man as a woman can stand here and vote. We thank all those who have gone ahead of us for that. I wonder what those who come after us will thank us for. I don't think anyone will thank us for the fact that the throughput time has passed from 86 days in 2014 to 404 days in 2020 before a hunting crime is decided. People in rural areas often live in small villages. Everyone knows everyone, and they are being singled out for something that they may not have done. They don't feel well, and they can't hunt. I like hunting, too. The fact that they are not allowed to hunt is perhaps not the absolute worst of this. The worst part is the identification. In today's social media situation, it doesn't help, but it slows down. The suspension spins on different groupings. It puts people against people, and claims are made about people who are unable to defend themselves. That is why it is extremely important for people to come to trial and to make a decision so that they can find out what was right and what was wrong. Why has transit time increased by a large proportion? I wonder.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-517	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellant's question! First of all, I want to say the obvious. Long passage times are certainly not good. It's not good for investigating crimes. We know that there is a much greater chance that the crimes investigated early and quickly lead to conviction. We know that for all categories of crime. The faster the investigation work takes place, the more likely it is that it will result in a successful outcome in the form of conviction in cases where there are any suspicions. It is also stressful for the suspect that these are long periods of time. I'd like to start by saying that. That's where we're in complete agreement. I understand that the interpellation is not about an individual matter. But we are quite close to individual cases, because it is highlighted and exemplified. I would like to say at the outset in the interpellation debate that I do not want to be perceived as commenting on or dealing with individual matters. It's pretty important. If it looks like I am responding to individual cases or activities, we are in a paradigm shift in which, as a minister, I review or have views on how the justice system works and what measures the authorities choose to take. It could be a review of the decisions or activities of the authorities. That would be inappropriate. We criticise other countries for entering politics and have views on how the independent judiciary should deal with its issues. I would like to say this overall. What can we do from the political side and from the government? I believe that one of the explanations, not only in this area of hunting crimes, but in many types of crimes where there have been long lead times, has been that the police have had too little resources, if I am to be honest. They have been poorly manned and have been forced back and forth to make different assessments of what was most urgent and important to do right now. They have had to put other things aside, giving priority to other types of crime. This has happened to a large extent in recent years. That is also why I perceive that there is broad consensus in the Riksdag to continue to allow the Police Authority to grow. Until now, many civil servants have been hired. Now it is also growing on the police side in the future. It is a prerequisite that the Police Authority has the resources to be able to work with the crimes it handles and that it can do so quickly in order not to have long throughput times. I think the Police Department has also discovered that there is a potential to deal with these issues in a better way. It is also the development work that I have asked about and received answers to. Work is now being done to improve and streamline the handling of serious hunting crimes. My picture is that the agency and other authorities are now discussing how to deal with these issues in order not to have as long processing times as it has been in the past. It's the same with the method manual you're working on. It will certainly be a tool for improving the efficiency of police work, but also for better collaboration so that all parties know what is expected of the respective authorities. I'm happy to follow this over time. I note that the last year has reduced the flow times of the Police Authority. I hope and believe that this is a breach of historical development and that we have seen a shift. We will thus see shorter times ahead, and this was the first year of a more positive development.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-529	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we should not discuss particulars, even if it is appropriate to exemplify with people who have suffered this. Mr President, I would like to I've had Parliament's investigation service look at how effective the agency is. As part of legal certainty, it must be a matter of having a reasonable belief that when the state, the police, for example, arrests and arrests someone, one must have a reasonable faith that one can have that person convicted. Otherwise, the matter should not be initiated. Here's where it really hurts. In 2016, there were 14 suspects. It was nothing legal. In 2017, there were 24 suspects. That was six years ago. In 2018, there were 17 people. It was 3 that were prosecuted. In 2019 21 people were suspected. It was two years ago. The survey from the Parliamentary Investigation Service shows a disastrous result as soon as possible. Either there are a large number of people who are exposed and suspected completely unnecessarily or the police were so substandard in their investigations that they could not prosecute enough. What the answer is, of course, neither I nor the Government have any idea. But the consequences of the long processing times are that these people who live in the country and who love hunting – they may even live their lives through the hunt – are deprived of their weapons. They are deprived of their leisure interests, and they are innocently accused by neighbors and by the media. It is even so – if it is correctly quoted – that some prosecutor has spoken out like this: I could not prove that the person X shot the wolf. Mr President, I would like to I think it is unworthy of the rule of law. In a state governed by the rule of law, all persons are innocent until they have been convicted. When the judicial system goes in and makes such a huge breach of privacy that one arrests and arrests someone, must one reasonably have a little more on your feet than suspecting 14 people and prosecuting zero or suspecting 21 people and prosecuting 2? So there are 19 people who are not being prosecuted. Both I and the Government know that when a prosecutor and the judiciary intervene you should have very dry feet. One should be able to make an assessment that the person is actually being prosecuted. I would therefore like to ask the Government how he views the general picture that very many people are being suspected but very few are being prosecuted.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-536	Mr President, I would like to I'll pick up where Lars Beckman left off. There are many who are suspected but few prosecuted. Could it be that the police do not have the skills to investigate hunting crimes of this calibre more effectively? Could it be that you try to throw out the net wide, and that takes a very long time? Just as the Minister initially did, it is of course better to clear up crimes if you do so as soon as possible after the crime has occurred. In all this, I wonder about all these people who suffer and who have to endure and live under pressure to be suspected of something as gross as a hunting crime – even a serious hunting crime. Living under that pressure is not only about feeling bad yourself but also about what I was into earlier – to suffer spit and spit from both those you live close to and those who live around Sweden and sometimes also from other countries, who are happy to interfere in such havoc. I don't think any of us want anyone to have to live under that pressure for a long time.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-540	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it is quite remarkable statistics that Beckman highlights in the interpellation debate. It has several different explanations. One explanation is that, historically speaking, these crimes in Sweden are quite difficult to investigate regardless of the period of time we are talking about. It's not just now, during a time when the police have been repressed. These crimes occur in environments out in the woods where there are few witnesses on site. There may be a culture of silence among those who commit this kind of crime that makes you not want to talk about each other. Secret coercive measures are being used to a greater extent today than before, thus trying to link people to crime. It's something that's evolved. But when the police have so much been too little resourced, it has meant a struggle for investigative resources, and then it has often been the case that violent crimes have gone before hunting crimes and serious hunting crimes. And it may be perfectly reasonable; if there has been a rape or murder, it may be reasonable that it is investigated more quickly by the police. The Authority must make an assessment of this. Now the police are growing, and it is my assessment that this is the most important effort I can make from my side: to ensure that there are resources on the police to investigate serious crimes in general, and it also includes serious hunting crimes. I think it is also important for the rule of law that some of the crimes committed in this area are prosecuted. It is not good that we have legislation that is never used because it is difficult for the police to prove crimes. I think it is important to have both parts: we need to have faster processes so that we do not suffer as pointed out. And in the same way, the law must also be enforced, because if no one is convicted, there is a risk that confidence in the judicial system will be eroded. Noa's North Development Centre has been tasked with working on development and efficiency issues in this area in order to streamline the management of this type of crime. This will be summarised in a manual that will be completed this year. Now we are giving resources, they are working on efficiency and the manual and I hope that 2020 was a year when it turned and when the times of the police began to decrease. I also hope that it can continue. But I too am concerned when I see the statistics, because they are very long throughput times. It's not good either for the suspects or for the police when they're going to do their job effectively. This is an issue that we must continue to follow, and I have high hopes that the police will take this issue seriously and are now also working on efficiency and method development.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-547	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Government for sharing my concern and for agreeing that the rule of law should also be improved for hunters! I am not saying that this is the case, but there may be a wrong culture in which, on very loose grounds, people arrest, arrest, hold press conferences and express themselves in such a way that the public perceives that there has been an illegal wolf hunt by people in a small town. When you have no more on your feet than that out of 21 suspects were convicted 2 I wonder if there is a cultural issue in our law enforcement agencies where you go in with noise and blunders but do not get people prosecuted. The truth is, of course, that if you do not have sufficient evidence and grounds for what you claim, you should neither arrest nor arrest anyone. It is a good thing that the Government is now on this issue, and I suspect that in its follow-up talks with the Authority, the Government will ask a little more critical questions about how the outcome can be so low. It must either depend on incompetence, i.e. not producing enough evidence, or on acting on a loose basis. We should not have to read headlines in the newspapers and listen to terrible stories where Per was acquitted of suspected illegal wolf hunting but still feels pointed out by the judiciary. This is unworthy of the rule of law, Mr President.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-551	Mr President, I would like to I want to finish where I started: It's not good with long throughput times for anyone. It is not good for the police, because it reduces their chances of resolving crimes, and it is also not good for the identified and suspected. It is a question of legal certainty. However, I would not use the word "incompetence" about the police, because the police have had a situation with a lack of resources. They have been too few, but we are now dealing with that. This means that they will be able to deal with more cases than they have done in the past in a more effective way. However, there is a homework to do in this area in terms of efficiency and methodological development. But even though I'm saying this about homework, I think we should have some humility in this. These will continue to be crimes that are quite difficult to clear up, especially if it is a hunting team where one may agree to commit crimes. I certainly do not say that this is the case in many hunting teams, but there are often many of them where this has been the case. There is a culture of silence, and it can be difficult to really figure out who has done what. There the police have a big challenge in finding the right one. I hope that the convictions that have occurred will show that the rule of law applies – even in the forest. The legal society and Swedish law also apply to serious hunting crimes. These will be difficult questions to investigate, but it is important that we shorten the times both for the police and for those who have been identified.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-555	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me whether I and the government intend to work to amend the legislation to facilitate the establishment of new nuclear power. As regards the legislation on the establishment of new reactors, this is regulated in the Environmental Code in accordance with the proposal submitted by the Alliance Government in 2010. The purpose of the amendment was to enable a controlled generational shift of today's reactors. The legislation made it possible to replace a closed reactor at the same site. The legislation also states that new reactors will not be subsidised. These principles were later confirmed in the party-wide energy agreement concluded in 2016 and resulted, among other things, in the adoption by Parliament of a target of 100 per cent renewable electricity generation by 2040, but which also states that this is a goal and not a deadline that prohibits nuclear power. I therefore note that, since 2010, there are no legal obstacles to a power producer wishing to replace an older and exhausted reactor with a new one.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-558	Mr President, I would like to The intervention has been due to the situation of nuclear power in Sweden, where it has led to a most fading existence during the Red Green Government and where four out of the country's ten reactors have been closed during the last two terms of office. This differs from the global development we have seen for nuclear power, where it has increased for each year in the corresponding period. We have also seen that the government has influenced developments in other ways. For example, in the first budget bill submitted by the government to the Riksdag, Vattenfall was ordered to suspend its work on replacement reactors. Since then, the Riksdag has been pushing through announcements on nuclear research, which has resulted in the Government's clarification in the regulatory letter to the Swedish Energy Agency that research and innovation can take place in all relevant types of energy, including nuclear energy. Yet we have not been able to see that such research has taken off, despite the fact that there have been and are applications in this area. The problem of new nuclear power in Sweden has for a long time been the thought ban that existed until a bit after the turn of the millennium. Today's legislation still hinders development, and the state has a crucial role to play with the provisions contained in the environmental code. The problem that exists, as the Government states, is that it is limited to existing reactors, both in terms of number and location of reactors. What has also happened in the near future is, for example, that over the past year Vattenfall has started cooperation in Estonia to develop small modular reactors, reactors that are considerably smaller and easier to build and that could be located in more places. They also have the advantage of being able to produce series, which means that one can hope to reduce the cost of strengthening competitiveness and suppress fossil-based power generation around the world. This cooperation was recently deepened, with a letter of intent in which the government is now mainly contributing to this work abroad and not in Sweden. It is these developments and the limitations of the legislation that are affected by the interpellation. The question of whether the government intends to change the legislation remains unanswered. We have received a statement from the Government about the conditions, but is it intended to change and loosen them or is it satisfied that what is today a ceiling of ten reactors and that reactors can only be constructed in three places? Through its wholly owned companies, the state controls 70% of the market. It has also expressed its intention that Vattenfall should not continue to work with replacement reactors. When stakeholders showed up to buy Ringhals 1 this was firmly rejected, which did not allow any other operator to operate the reactor further. This considerably limits the possibilities if someone wants to build or build new nuclear power in Sweden. That is why, Mr President, I would like to ask the Government once again whether it intends to work towards amending the legislation to facilitate the establishment of new nuclear power. And whether or not you intend to change the legislation, I would like to ask the Government whether it believes that it should be possible to acquire the possibility of constructing replacement reactors from Vattenfall.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-565	Mr President, I would like to I shall point out, however, that the licensing legislation that may exist for reactors falls under the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. If the honourable Member wishes to ask about the details of those elements, he may return to the Minister for the Environment. There are a few SMR reactors in the world. If anyone would like to construct such a reactor in Sweden, it is quite possible with the current regulations. I have not understood such interest. Nor have I received any serious interest, if one sees and hears what the owner says, in buying the abandoned reactors in Sweden. I also note that what Mattias Bäckström Johansson calls an increase in nuclear energy in the world takes place in the regulated, subsidised parts of the world. In the free market economies of nuclear power a rather dwindling existence. And that is not because the free countries have a negative view of nuclear power, on the contrary. We probably have the best economic conditions since nuclear power was started in Sweden to operate nuclear power plants in Sweden. However, the cost curve of nuclear power has been strongly rising, while the cost curve of alternatives has been strongly declining. That is the main reason why it is not being invested in nuclear power. In the UK, the price of nuclear power has to be subsidised at 93 øre per kilowatt. Otherwise we have some nuclear power in France. Finland is probably 12 years late with its reactor. Then it is Slovakia, it is Ukraine, it is Belarus, it is China and it is India. It is not countries that we see in other contexts as examples of energy and climate policy. But again to the main question put by Mattias Bäckström Johansson: Should it be possible to build new nuclear power in Sweden? Yeah. It has been since 2010. Is there a great interest from the market players, international or Swedish, to do so in Sweden? No. Is it because the government has hindered research? No. Is it because the government has opposed this? No. This is due to the cost development of nuclear power. Should it change, we would have an impact on SMR reactors, fourth generation nuclear technology would have an impact even though it has been running for 20 to 30 years without getting it, I think this picture will change. Until then, however, I believe that it will be difficult for new nuclear power to make it economically in a free market. But it says the person who thinks otherwise and who so wishes free to invest.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-571	Mr President, I would like to We can see a strong development of small modular reactors around the world. Several assessors are likely to be in commercial operation within as little as a ten-year period. We can see how hydrogen initiatives around the world are increasing, and where nuclear power is able to come to its own by being able to produce both electric heat and hydrogen in order to combine multiple revenue streams, for which other types of energy are not possible. This is not, in substance, a question of whether to subsidise or involve the cost picture in different ways. It is about whether it should be possible to take advantage of this possible technology in Sweden without any regulatory barriers. These exist today. The government is once again repeating things that are directly untrue. It's not free for anyone to build. We have legislation that limits it to the fact that there can be ten reactors and that these can be found in three places. In the other municipalities, you must not build any new nuclear power. You can't build an 11th reactor. It's not open to anyone. The problem is that the state owns seven of the ten reactors. But the state does not want to build replacement reactors, and the state has not wanted to sell those reactors either. I wonder how the Council of State can consider it to be a free market at all when the state controls 70% of the market and does not intend to allow any player to enter that space. In that case, it should reasonably be prepared to ensure that Vattenfall can sell the possibility of replacement reactors to those who wish to construct them. But you've said no to that. That's where it breaks. It's not a free market. There are regulatory obstacles, and the government is not prepared to loosen them. In spite of this, the Government has stated that he would have a non-religious view of nuclear power. Obviously this is not the case, because here we need to keep the regulatory barriers in place against nuclear power in order not to enable the technological development that we can see to take place around the world and that could also contribute in Sweden. Finally, the question is to the Government: is it really up to the market to decide this when the state controls 70% of the market? Can it be viewed as a free market in which to operate?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-576	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the last question put by Mattias Bäckström Johansson is, of course, yes. That is why it has been invested SEK 60 or 80 billion in new energy since the Energy Agreement was concluded. They have just not been invested in nuclear power. The reason for this is not regulatory barriers, which Mattias Bäckström Johansson is trying to assert, but the cost development of nuclear power. Then I think Mattias Bäckström Johansson will have to consult the minutes. I did not say that everyone is free to build new nuclear power. I do not even think that Mattias Bäckström Johansson would wish for such a development. I said that everyone is free to invest in new nuclear power. That's a completely different thing. It is true that we must not build a new reactor in our townhouse or in Mjölby, but we have well-defined sites. But it is not a regulatory obstacle, but, on the contrary, it makes it easier for new nuclear power to come into place, because there are all the permits, and the rules are applied. If you were to take on the project of building a reactor in a completely new location, it is a huge challenge with everything that could be required in terms of safety and permit work for it. Despite the fact that we have completed sites and despite the fact that we have several actors in Sweden who operate nuclear power, no one has, as far as I know, revealed anything about an interest in investing in new reactors in Sweden. And it is not unique for Sweden, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, but we also see this development in our surrounding world. Recently, one of Japan's major energy owners withdrew from a nuclear project in Britain. Despite huge subsidies from the British government, the UK nuclear project was not counted. Similar developments are seen in other countries. The exception is mainly very controlled economies such as China, Belarus and Slovakia. To conclude, since I do have an agnostic one, I was going to say, but non-religious is probably better, view of nuclear power, that I welcome developments in the world. I welcome the fact that Sweden is researching nuclear energy. However, I am not quite as impressed as Mattias Bäckström Johansson by the development that has taken place over the past 10 or 20 years. I think it will be tough for the fourth generation of nuclear power. Even the most nuclear-positive country in the free world, France, has begun to hesitate about the fourth generation of nuclear power in the future. We have plenty of time to think about the SMR reactors if they would have the positive development that Mattias Bäckström Johansson is hoping for and coming through in ten years' time. In that case, perhaps we can start by building a reactor to see if it can get economic and power in it in a market economy.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-584	Mr President, I would like to As regards the fact that it has not been invested in nuclear power, Vattenfall submitted as late as 2012 an application to the Radiation Safety Authority to build replacement reactors in Ringhals. It was on the way, but then the government stepped in and ordered the company to stop the work. The state company would not invest in nuclear power. And it is clear that it is a regulatory obstacle that you can only build in three places. It may not even be certain that there is a need for effect in those parts of the network, which affects the will and interest to invest in this. It would not be possible for any other industry or industry to say that it is only in some places it may be built and limited to a very small part of the country. It's a few percent. This is power generation that can be built in large parts of the country. It's not open up just because you open up for it in the environmental code. It is the Nuclear Technology Act that regulates the conditions for nuclear installations and imposes requirements on the operator. I and the Swedish Democrats believe that it would have been welcome to signal that it is open and free to invest in nuclear power in Sweden. It is regrettable that this should happen abroad and that Vattenfall participates outside Sweden's borders in the development of small modular reactors. This should have happened in Sweden instead, and we could have contributed to the development of small modular reactors, which would have a crucial role globally in reducing fossil dependence. Here regulation is a major obstacle. 70% of the market, or the new reactors that can potentially be built, is controlled by the state that does not want to invest in the plants and does not want to resell them. The first important step is to remove regulatory barriers.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-589	Mr President, I would like to I am not quite clear on Mattias Bäckström Johansson's view of Vattenfall. On the one hand, he claims that they are nuclear-critical and puts a wet blanket on the development of nuclear power; on the other hand, he sees them as an example for researching new types of reactors with different partners. I think you have to make up your mind there. My picture is that Vattenfall has a great deal of freedom, that they act on a market-based basis in the markets in which they operate and that it should continue to be so. It is not at all unique for nuclear power to have different sites pointed out to it. That is exactly what the wind farm looks like. We have wind power plans that point to the best wind power locations in the country, and large areas in Sweden are closed to wind power. I think we have ten different national interests that prevent wind power on a very large part of Sweden's surface. This, of course, is also the case with hydroelectric power. Many rivers are closed to hydroelectric power, and there are a number of important environmental constraints for hydroelectric power as well. This may well be called regulatory barriers, but this is what it looks like when you want to bring different interests together in both energy policy and environmental policy. Finally, I note that there is no market interest that has been blocked by regulatory barriers. It is free to invest in nuclear power in Sweden, it is possible to build nuclear power in Sweden and it is possible to replace existing reactors with new nuclear power in Sweden. The latter I think is most interesting for the market. The two earlier ones I think are least interesting for the market, but that may change and the open regulatory framework is there.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-593	Mr President, I would like to John Weinerhall has asked me what measures I intend to take to deal with the evasion of grants within study associations and what I intend to do to ensure that study associations with anti-democratic links do not benefit from state subsidies. Initially, I would like to stress that state grants to study associations should be used correctly and the grant should go to adult education activities. Wrongly reported activities due to negligence, deliberate cheating or fraud must be brought to an end. The errors obscure the visibility of all good public education activities that are going on around Sweden. It is essential that control mechanisms are in place to ensure that the State contribution is used as intended. Proactive work is also needed to tackle fraud and irregularities. The Government therefore demands that the Folkbildningsrådet be monitored and reported on the state grant. It is the Folkbildningsrådet that has been given the task by law to examine questions regarding the distribution of state grants to, among other things, study associations. The Government has strengthened the follow-up of state grants to study associations to curb cheating and ensure that the grant goes to activities that fulfil the state's objectives with the state grant. By 15 April 2021, the Folkbildningsrådet shall submit a special report to the Government in which the Council shall, inter alia, report on the measures taken and planned to ensure this. I see that the Folkbildningsrådet, together with the study associations, is now doing a great deal of work to tackle the cheating that has been discovered. On behalf of the Folkbildningsrådet, the study associations have conducted a review of the activities for the years 2017 – 2019. I see this as a necessary measure to clarify the extent of cheating and assume that the lessons learned from the work form the basis for further improvement work. The Public Education Council's reporting back to the government on 15 April is an important basis for me to consider whether I need to take further measures to ensure that the state grant to student associations is used as intended. As far as Weinerhall's second question on study associations and activities with anti-democratic links is concerned, I and the government have made it clear that no public funds should be spent on organisations operating in conflict with the ideas of democracy. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Government has therefore decided on stricter reporting requirements for the Folkbildningsrådet. In accordance with the guidelines for 2020 and 2021, the Folkbildningsrådet shall report back in depth an assessment of the purpose of democracy for the years 2020 and 2021 respectively. The guidelines for 2021 state that the Folkbildningsrådet shall also describe how the Council works to ensure that the activities financed by the state grant convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental values of society and contribute to the maintenance and strengthening of these rights and values. In June 2019, the D Emocracy Condition Investigation submitted its report to the Government. The report contains proposals for a clearer and uniform democracy condition for state grants to civil society organisations. The proposals also cover the regulations on state aid to adult education. The government intends to come back with proposals for a new democracy condition during its term of office. Mr President, I would like to The Government has also decided on additional directives for the investigation of personal data processing in cases of support to civil society. The investigation will analyse and take a position on the establishment of a support function with expertise in actors, violent extremism and anti-democratic environments. It should be able to assist authorities in carrying out in-depth reviews of, for example, a grant applicant organisation. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that people's education is important. I will now follow closely that measures are being taken to ensure that the state grant to the student associations is used as intended. Every crown that goes to other than folk education is one less crown for those who need study circles, reading, culture and education.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-603	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Education Anna Ekström for her reply. I think we agree that support for peoples' education should be properly managed. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to debate this important subject. Folkbildning has a long and proud tradition of contributing to education and democracy in our country. The development of our democracy and the opportunity for people to influence their life situation and participate in the development of society are important elements to which peoples' education contributes. In addition, it raises the educational and educational level of the people and increases both interest in and participation in cultural life. Unfortunately, peoples' education is on a number of fronts. Rarely has the education of the people been as rewritten as in recent years, however, for completely different reasons than desirable. Headings on subsidy fraud, funding Islamism and other irregularities have hailed over the study associations. After major and persistent criticism that culminated in the grant crimes at Järvafältet, the Folkbildningsrådet began the special review of study associations' activities over the last three years. The results of the review were recently published. It showed that at least 1 million hours were misreported, that is, they did not exist more than on paper. Thus, study circles reported in several study associations had never taken place. Unfortunately, peoples' education, like many other sections of civil society, has become part of a subsidy industry complex. Increasingly, civil society has become dependent on contributions from the public sector. One can discuss how its freedom and independence are affected by it. For me as a moderate, society is always bigger than the state, and a strong and independent civil society is an important and cohesive kitt that brings people together and sustains our country. Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why it is saddening when peoples' education is attacked by organised crime in the form of subsidy fraud. We Moderates have long been pointing out the problems of peoples' education, both the lack of control and supervision, and the fact that today's democratic conditions are clearly not enough. Let me take an example! The study association Ibn Rushd has long been criticized by researchers as well as debaters for both its organisational links and its personal relations with organisations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood. For the uninitiated, I can inform you that the Muslim Brotherhood is an Islamic global network that wants to transform the secular state and derive legislation from Sharia. This is something that anyone who believes in Western liberal democracy should fear. We know that parallel societies are emerging in Sweden where simple visas counteract adaptation to Swedish society. It helps to maintain norms and structures that we should simply not accept in Swedish society. This means that operators receive tax money in the form of grants to establish and maintain. We Moderates have exercised and put forward committee initiatives here in Parliament to tighten up the conditions for democracy. In addition, we want to take away from the Public Education Council the exercise of authority so that control, supervision and grant granting are managed by an independent state authority. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the trust and self-control on which the education of the people is based today is really appropriate. Does the government and the Minister for Education intend to remedy the current shortcomings in education? When can the Riksdag expect, in such cases, to receive proposals from the Government on not only stricter conditions, which of course is also necessary, but also better supervision and control of public education?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-612	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I am a little taken by the fact that John Weinerhall is able to use the word dependency when he describes what has happened, according to the review that has been carried out. These are purely criminal activities, which have been reported to the police. A lot of money has gone to the wrong things. I find it difficult to see criminal activities linked to some form of dependency. I'd like to remind John Weinerhall of what I said in response to his interpellation. On the question of cheating, the Government requested a special report from the Folkbildningsrådet on 15 April. There, the Folkbildningsrådet will tell you what measures are being taken and planned. Transparency in the system and how it can be strengthened should be explained. The follow-up should be reported. You should tell us how the refund has been made. And you should describe what will be done in the future. For its part, the Folkbildningsrådet has tightened the conditions in relation to the study associations and decided on the in-depth review that was presented on 15 January. Control and scrutiny have been strengthened, the police have reported and recovered money wrongly paid. The study associations, for their part, have described in a report on 15 January what they have done. They have combined records, thereby discovering a lot of inaccuracies and cheating. They've tightened up control. They've filed a police report and recovered. As far as democracy is concerned, the government, as I explained in my reply, has tightened the reporting requirements of the Folkbildningsrådet. They shall provide an in-depth assessment of the democratic condition. They shall report on how they ensure that democracy and human rights are both conveyed and anchored in their activities and how respect for human rights and fundamental values can be strengthened. As I also explained, work is under way in the area of responsibility of Minister of Culture Amanda Lind. It is a matter of ensuring that a democratic condition is established. Among other things, following strong demands from, for example, the police and research community, there has also been a request for a special in-depth review of precisely different forms of follow-up of individuals. This is all being done so that fraud, irregularities and negligence do not occur. After all, all this is being done to maintain the democratic condition and to ensure that human rights and fundamental values not only permeate the activities but also be strengthened by the efforts that are being made. All of this is done out of concern and concern for the education of the people that seems more important and more necessary now than ever, when democracy is so threatened around our world and when the public debate is marked by a blamming of facts, opinions and rumours in a mess. There has never been as much need for public education as now, and never has the need to protect public education from those who want to cheat and those who want to use the money for the wrong things been more important than now.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-621	Mr President, I would like to I hear what the Minister for Education says, and I think we fully share this view. I do not think that we differ in the idea that money should go to real education and not be cheated off or used by criminals. I also do not believe that the government wants to see either parallel communities or organised grant crime in Sweden. However, I do not believe that the measures that the Minister for Education is talking about really get to the problems. I think we need to have stronger measures. I do not believe that the reporting requirement is sufficient. In addition to strengthening democratic conditions, we would also need an external audit, because I do not believe that the self-control and trust management on which peoples are founded are working. Maybe it worked in the 40's when it came to when, for example, the farmers or ABF arranged study circles. Then maybe it worked, but I don't think it's gonna work today. We see how it has been exploited by various actors. Let me return to the democratic condition of extremism and Islamism. In 2017, MSB, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, wrote a report about the Muslim Brotherhood, which is actually a hair-traveling reading. The report warns precisely of the fact that organisations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood are not only allowed to make themselves representatives of the Muslim population in Sweden, although the lion's share of Sweden's Muslims probably does not share the values of the Muslim Brotherhood, but that this is also sanctioned by the state through the grant. Several organisations, such as the Young Muslims of Sweden, have also been withdrawn by MUCF. The MSB report states that the Islamicisation efforts of the Muslim Brotherhood are likely to build strong social and political tensions into the Swedish national state. There is a warning that there will be a struggle between the majority society and Islamic society in the MB about the basic standards that will apply to Swedish citizens. It is further noted that the Muslim Brotherhood aims to increase the immigration of Muslims into Sweden and that there is a great danger that the parallel Islamic sector of the Muslim Brotherhood functions as a competing social structure in relation to the established secular society. Furthermore, the study association I referred to earlier, Ibn Rushd, has member organisations which have received the State's contribution, precisely because they are considered undemocratic. Along with these, Ibn Rushd has also arranged seminars with anti-Semites. It is well worth bearing in mind that yesterday, on the Memorial Day of the Holocaust, we paid attention to what anti-Semitism can do. All this is, of course, totally unacceptable, and we in politics have a responsibility to stop it. At least taxpayers' money should not be used to fund and support this. Although this spans so many more areas than adult education, it has also become part of this. The previous review initiated by the Folkbildningsrådet and carried out by Erik Amnå also leaves some to be desired. It has been criticized by the researchers Magnus Ranstorp and Aje Carlbom for not affecting the study associations' finances, for example. Although the Minister says he wants to address the problems, I do not think that the proposed measures are enough. There is a need for strengthened democracy conditions in the state aid regulation. The problems have been well known for a long time; it needs action now! That should have been done a long time ago. We need to have a system where it is not enough to meet democratic conditions on paper or to make minor adjustments to statutes that do not really fix problems. It is not good enough to continue receiving state subsidies. Mr President, I would like to If we are to overcome the major problems we see in society and in the field of education, we must take a strong stance. I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to meet the Moderates and take responsibility from the Education Council, transfer it to, for example, MUCF and move forward with stricter democratic conditions without waiting for the investigation that looks at the impact of GDPR. It must be possible to introduce stricter conditions for democracy in spite of this.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-631	Mr President, I would like to John Weinerhall is calling for force. I've explained the many assignments the government has put on the Folkbildningsrådet. I can't remember that at some point there have been such clear and tough reporting requirements on the Folkbildningsrådet. Nor do I believe that it has occurred in the past that the Folkbildningsrådet has made such tough demands on the study associations, unfortunately for one reason: cheating has been discovered which is unacceptable. John Weinerhall asks further if this is enough. Should we do more? You can always do more, but what else is to be done? It is clear that it is possible to screw on something, and change to, and change some form of force here and there, but these are very clear demands made on the Folkbildningsrådet, and there is no doubt that the Folkbildningsrådet has taken on board the criticism that has been directed from different parts of society against cheating having slipped through. Nor is there any doubt that the study associations have taken this very seriously. John Weinerhall then returns to the requirement to transfer the responsibility for funding, control and the like from the Folkbildningsrådet to some authority. Here I can tell you that I am so old, Mr President, that I remember what it was like at the time when the study associations received their grants via the National Board of Education, blessed in commemoration. I can tell you that there was cheating at the time, too. There were cheatings that were quite similar to the cheating that has been revealed in the great search that has been done now that the study associations have interlinked various registers among other things. That different types of music bands are looking for money for the same hours from different study associations is a type of activity that stands out in the review that the study associations have submitted. Mr President, I would like to I am ashamed to say this, and I myself am not guilty of it, but I can tell you that this was also happening in my youth when these contributions were decided by activities that were under a government authority. Regardless of who decides on state subsidies, John Weinerhall, we will have to have clear requirements and clear conditions for the grants to be paid out. We must have a control mechanism, but we must also ensure that the study associations have the freedom to choose their activities as long as they are within the framework of our democratic society and promote democracy and our fundamental values. I have not seen any sympathising argument as to why this should be promoted by the fact that we made an organisational change and instead had a government authority that carried out this kind of rather difficult scrutiny that had to be done. Until someone shows me the opposite, I will think that the most important thing we can do is to do what the government and parliament do best, namely to lay down sensible conditions for the authority or organisation that has to carry out these trials. Today, the Riksdag has decided that it will be the Folkbildningsrådet, and as long as the Riksdag has decided, I will do my best to ensure that the Folkbildningsrådet has as clear and clear legislation as possible to support itself against. With the work now under way at the Ministry of Culture, with strong support from researchers, for example, I am convinced that we will be able to arrive at a clearer and better democracy condition.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-639	Mr President, I would like to I note that I and the Minister for Education may not have as much confidence in the study associations' ability to carry out this control themselves. I see that there is an obvious conflict of interest when it is an association made up of study associations that will also distribute grants, review and control the activities of study associations. I simply do not believe in this trust management, and I think it would have been very good to have an external audit. For me, it is self-evident that an outsider, independent operator, better examines the business than they do on their own, because there is of course a conflict of interest there. I am not at all interested in controlling the content from a political point of view. I also believe that it is important for peoples to be both free and independent, but it must not be a purse for criminals. Therefore, if we are to get a high-quality education with order and order, where there is neither subsidy fraud nor anti-democratic activity, we must ensure that proper action is taken on the ground. I do not think I hear that the government really wants to make the necessary decisions on this issue. We Moderates have put forward proposals on this issue, and we hope that if the government does not support them, at least a majority in the Riksdag when they will eventually be dealt with.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-642	Mr President, I would like to I can once again note that the demands made by the Government on the Council for Education and Studying are much tougher and clearer than the requirements in the past. The report shows that there have been cheating and carelessness. We know that the whole origin of the review is the fact that, according to information from the Folkbildningsrådet, there are elements of organised crime, which must be combated. I can assure John Weinerhall that anyone who is harshest against the study associations and the Education Council is the one who cares the most about the fact that people's education works throughout our country. It is the one who cares most about the fact that study circles exist in every municipality and folk high school in every region. As John Weinerhall himself reminded us, we are living in a serious time. Yesterday was the serious and important Memorial Day of the Holocaust. Anyone who is involved in the work of a democratic society, anyone who is involved in the work of a society that holds together, must see the importance of the formation of peoples and of study associations that provide the opportunity, Mr President, perhaps the most effective means available against xenophobia, populism, nationalism and forces that want to keep apart rather than stick together, namely the classical study circle. There people from different backgrounds sit around a table, discuss on the basis of facts, not rumors, and strive to keep our society together. The study associations are responsible for this work. I am prepared to fight for the funds they need and for the money to be used for what they are supposed to, not for cheating and irregularities.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-645	Mr President, I would like to Lars Püs has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that Swedish universities show a common line with the Swedish State in general on the issue of cooperation with Iran and the imprisonment of Ahmadreza Djalali. I would like to begin by saying that the Council continues to take a very serious view of the human rights situation, democracy and the rule of law in Iran. The government's view of Ahmadreza Djalali's situation remains unchanged – the government requires that the death penalty is not enforced. The government has repeatedly raised the issue with representatives of Iran, including at government level. Universities and colleges have also strongly criticised Iran's handling of Ahmadreza Djalali's fall. It is possible to be critical of the lack of human rights in a given country and at the same time to see the value of international cooperation between universities. This is a long-standing Swedish stance. Exchanges and contacts with researchers from other countries are valuable and can help to increase understanding of issues outside research or education cooperation itself, such as the principles of the rule of law and gender equality. The fact that universities and higher education institutions cooperate with universities in different countries is therefore not something that deviates from the Swedish line. Universities and higher education institutions are independently responsible for the activities carried out at higher education institutions, including international collaborations. Finally, Sweden consistently calls for the death penalty not to be enforced.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-651	Mr President, I would like to I thank Matilda Ernkrans for the answer to my question. I appreciate that we have a common understanding of both the human rights situation, democracy and the rule of law in Iran and, of course, that the death sentence against Ahmadreza Djalali should not be enforced. I can also agree that exchanges and contacts are often far more successful if we want to promote human rights, but there is always a limit to what is considered acceptable. Ahmadreza Djalali is in prison pending the execution of his death sentence, and he is convicted of spying on Iran – probably because he refused to spy on, among other things, Sweden on behalf of Iran. At the same time, we know that Iran is one of the three countries in the world that engage in the most extensive espionage against us here in Sweden. Iran is mainly concerned with refugee and industrial espionage. With this in mind, it would not be particularly far-fetched to assume that one of the students who comes to Sweden from Iran has as their goal not only to study but also to conduct intelligence gathering on behalf of Iran. I certainly do not think that we should paint all students from Iran as spies, but that should reasonably call for some consideration. I have been busy reading the Swedish Security Service's yearbooks for 2018 and 2019. Russia and China are also identified as countries that pose major intelligence threats to Sweden. In China it is not about Sweden as a country but the technology and knowledge that exists in Sweden. Just like when it comes to recruiting students from Iran, several of our universities have been very active in China. The fact that our universities are making extra efforts to get students from two of the top three countries to engage in industrial espionage against Sweden should also lead to a certain amount of thoughtfulness. Much of the research carried out at our universities can be classified as directly sensitive from a security perspective. It includes everything from military applications to nuclear technology. As recently as the other week, the media reported how Iran began to enrich uranium up to 20 percent, taking them one step closer to making their own nuclear weapons. Mr President, I would like to I wonder how the Government is reasoning about potential security risks from foreign students. I know I got a little out of it, but it's still a matter of the government's hobbies.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-658	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that the situation of the prisoner and sentenced Djalali is indefensible. There is no doubt whatsoever about it. I continue to emphasise that the Government takes very seriously the human rights, democracy and rule of law situation in Iran. As regards the Djalali case, the government continues to demand and claim that the death penalty should not be enforced. I know that the interpellant also knows that, in individual cases, it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs who deals with the matter on behalf of the government. I cannot comment on the individual case in more detail, nor on this or other cases that the interpeller might raise in such matters. Then it is the Secretary of State and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs who comment on them. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of what the Foreign Minister has also expressed in general terms, namely that a lack of dialogue is not beneficial. Rather, it is the opposite, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would also like to reiterate what I have said about the importance of cooperation in education and research across the world and that there is no contradiction between talking, at the same time being critical of the lack of human rights and yet seeing the value of international cooperation. Research collaborations and student exchanges between universities and higher education institutions worldwide are important. This is a long-standing Swedish stance. Similarly, it is a Swedish attitude to exercise Swedish governance of universities in the sense that they are free academies with free research. They are their own authorities responsible for their own activities. This applies, of course, in all cooperation. It can be about democracy and human rights, as in the Djalali case, but it can also be about making assessments of security policy and the security policy situation and taking responsibility for security and ethics as well. This, too, is the responsibility of our universities as independent authorities. This is also part of a Swedish line.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-662	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really feel that I was getting an answer to the question. I understand that our universities are independent authorities. I have full respect for that. But at the same time it is important that a government and, above all, a minister responsible for higher education have a line on how to deal with potential security threats or espionage at our higher education institutions. As I said, it is not a question of blacking out a whole population, but it is obvious. Säpo himself writes about it in one of his yearbooks. Since Huawei has been on the wallpaper a number of times, most people probably know that Chinese companies have a requirement to report to the Chinese secret services. But that requirement also applies to individuals. This makes me a little concerned, because we know that we have ended up in a situation that is far more complicated than it has been in the period after the wall fell and the Cold War ended. We had sort of a loosening up, and the world became bigger because we had greater trust in our neighbors. Unfortunately, those days are going away. It is clear what you are doing in the Swedish defence. It also means that we must be vigilant. What surprises me is that we are going to try to recruit Chinese students and Iranian students at the same time as it is the two countries that are conducting the most extensive industrial espionage against Sweden. It should reasonably lead to a rather thorough vigilance in receiving students from these countries. When it comes to nuclear weapons or weapons of mass destruction, Säpo writes as follows: States in need of in-depth knowledge can send researchers from their own country to universities abroad or a university from that state starts a cooperation project with a Swedish university. The focus on research and projects is usually on areas where knowledge can be used both for civilian use and for weapons of mass destruction programmes. ..................................................... This does not mean that it happens, but the mere suspicion should lead to a plan for how to handle it. Reasonably, it should be on the government's responsibility to ensure that our universities – which are independent authorities, however – have a plan to deal with this type of threat. I'm going back to my original question. What is the Minister doing to ensure that there is no espionage at our universities?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-670	I note that the interpellation is about cooperation with Iran on the basis of this particular case and that the interpeller is now widening the issue quite substantially. The Government is happy to comment; I just make the observation that it is really outside the scope of this interpellation.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-672	Mr President, I would like to As the President points out, the interpellant Lars Püs is well aware that what the interpellant has asked me is very clear about how to ensure that Swedish universities show a common line with the Swedish State in general regarding cooperation with Iran and the imprisonment of Djalali. The interpellant takes the opportunity to get this interpellation to be about something completely different. You can have comments on that. I can only briefly inform the interpeller that, even with regard to potential security threats and active security work, it is obviously a responsibility that our authorities take and will take. This also applies to our authorities universities and colleges, and it is obviously part of the work that we do together in Sweden to ensure that we have international collaborations, research exchanges and student exchanges with many different countries in the world because we see the value of this. It can be done – it can be done! – to have international cooperation and be critical of the lack of human rights. Of course, responsibility for security and ethics should also be taken into account in these cooperations.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-675	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that Matilda Ernkrans answered – or commented, we can call it – my question even if it was outside the interpellation itself. I feel that we have a common understanding, which I think is great. But when I started going further into the subject, I realized that there are obvious threats. I appreciate that the Government is taking this very seriously, because it is very important that we can ensure that. I believe, like the Government, that it is important that we can work together on joint research projects and that we have foreign students reading here. Just as Swedish students should be able to go abroad, of course others should be able to come to us. I think it promotes a lot. I have taught at Halmstad University, where we had many Chinese students. I felt that it gave a lot to student life and to the development and discussions in the education. I can only emphasise that I agree with that as well. We are very much in agreement today!
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-678	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Püs, for allowing us to debate this important issue anyway! I would like to make a final statement to say two things. The first is that research collaborations and student exchanges between universities in different countries, as has been said, are important. This is a long-standing Swedish stance. We will cooperate in certain areas such as education. It's valuable. Moreover, it is not unique for Sweden, but similar collaborations also exist in many other EU countries. The second point I would like to make is the question of the free academy and free research. Although the interpellant took the opportunity to broaden the interpellation, I very much hope that we have a common understanding of the importance of being able to cooperate internationally and at the same time stand up to the lack of human rights, but that we also have a common understanding that we will stand up for the free academy and the free research. Universities and higher education institutions have their own authorities responsible for the activities carried out at each higher education institution. This also applies to international cooperation. As in Djalalis's case, it may be a matter of clearly taking a stand against the death penalty. Many of our universities have done so. But it may also be that international cooperation also takes responsibility for, for example, security and other ethical balances in these collaborations. It is possible to be critical of the lack of human rights while at the same time seeing the value of international cooperation and taking responsibility for security. Finally, the government continues to demand that Djalalis's death penalty be not enforced. We continue to monitor this situation very closely.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-683	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that social services can carry out their tasks without threats and violence, and how I assess the risks of officials making wrong decisions under threat and violence, and how I intend to work to prevent these risks. Everyone who works in Sweden should be able to go to work without having to be afraid of being exposed to threats and violence. Threats and violence, or the risk of being exposed to threats and violence, are a serious health and safety problem and in many cases also constitute a very serious threat to fundamental social functions. This applies, for example, to social secretaries but also to several other professions. The exercise of public authority that is part of the work of social secretaries is important for maintaining the Swedish legal society. Threats and violence are therefore not only a health and safety problem but ultimately a threat to the democratic rule of law. In recent years, there have been reports that more and more government employees are exposed to threats and violence in their work. It is clear that more needs to be done to protect these important professions. Since the government took office last term of office, raising the level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has been an important priority. The resources have been increased by more than SEK 100 million annually. The Government's strategy on health and safety at work for 2016 – 2020 has strengthened the implementation of health and safety policy in several respects. The Government intends to present a new strategy on health and safety at work in February. The employer has ultimate responsibility for the working environment. The environmental acquis requires risk prevention measures and serious incidents, such as when an employee is exposed to threats or violence, to be reported and investigated. The worker affected must also receive help and support quickly. Identifying the risks of threats and violence should be part of systematic work environment management. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on threats and violence place a great responsibility on the employer in terms of prevention, care of victims, safety procedures, action plans and education. The Government has set up an investigation to assess, among other things, whether there is a need for measures for the protection of workers in the event of discrimination, harassment and threats from persons who are not employed at the workplace, such as customers, patients, passengers or users. A convention and related recommendations on the elimination of violence and harassment have been adopted by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). The aim of the Convention is to combat violence and harassment as well as gender-based violence and gender-related harassment in working life. A special investigator has been tasked with proposing how it should be implemented in Swedish law. The Government has also set up an investigation to assess the societal benefits that are in need of enhanced criminal protection and how such protection can be achieved. The mission also includes analysing the need for and appropriateness of a change in law whereby the crime of violence or threats against officials is divided up and the scale of penalties for violence against officials is tightened. The investigator shall present his/her conclusions by 12 November 2021. The scale of penalties for certain serious crimes of violence has been tightened and the protection of personal integrity has been strengthened and modernised, for example by extending the criminalised area of illegal threats. In the exercise of authority, the starting point is that the individual should know who makes the decisions; it is about transparency. However, in order to protect civil servants from reprisals, certain data may be protected. The starting point is, for example, the confidentiality of employees' housing addresses and private telephone numbers. In certain authorities, where staff may, in particular, be exposed to threats or violence, personal identity numbers and date of birth may also be protected. This applies, for example, to social security officers employed by the Social Welfare Board. Under certain conditions, threatened and persecuted persons may also have their information protected in the population register. In conclusion, the Government has clearly prioritised work environment management and strengthened the protection of civil servants. I am closely following developments in this area and do not rule out the need for further action.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-694	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Recently, the union called for the social services staff to be subject to the same legislation as blue-light personnel: police officers, firemen, emergency services and others. This is an extremely strong indication of the dangers to which social security secretaries are exposed and a shift in the former opinion of the SSR that it is not more severe punishment that is needed but more preventive work to curb violence. The reality is telling. During a home visit to Malmö this summer, the social secretary saw an automatic weapon in the apartment. I mean, don't mess with us! We have illegal weapons; we are above the law. Later in the summer, one of the Social Services cars was destroyed by a fire attack. Shortly thereafter, a so - called Molotov cocktail was found, which had been thrown against the Social Services office but missed the target. Unfortunately, these events are not isolated, but are part of a pattern and of the increase in threats and violence against ordinary officials doing their jobs. Only three weeks ago, we read in the newspapers that a man and a woman had started a fire and acted violently against officials of the Social Services Office in Knivsta. This is extremely serious and tragic. Social secretaries are trained to handle clients who are in difficult situations and to be able to make quick decisions. Clients with personality disorders, addiction, mental illness or mental illness have always existed. But the gross violence, with arson and gun threats, has come in recent years. Mr President, I would like to Those working in social services are mainly women; men are still in the minority. It is women and men who have chosen this profession because they want to help people. They want to help others develop their abilities, harness their resources, and find their inner strengths. It is therefore a very brute awakening when you end up at your workplace in the social services office and find it to be a war zone. It is not surprising that experienced social secretaries do not want to work with authority. The threats and violence are the worst when dealing with financial assistance or dealing with matters where children are harmed. So the experienced social secretaries look for new jobs or new jobs, and remain on the ground the youngest, usually recent graduates, who have to deal with the most difficult cases. I am sure the Minister understands the danger of this. Cases where children are ill-treated must be dealt with by the most knowledgeable and experienced social secretaries, especially for the sake of children, but also for the sake of society. Mr President, I would like to In December 2018, the Swedish Work Environment Authority published a report highlighting threats and violence against social services. Now, two years later, union president demands that threats and violence against social services be classified as violence against bluelight personnel. This means that the working environment has deteriorated dramatically. I would like the Minister's comment on this.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-703	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for a very important interpellation! I would like to say, Mr President, that on this issue I really share the interpellier's view of how serious this is. As I said in my introductory speech, it is both a serious health and safety issue and a very serious social problem. No one should be exposed to threats or violence at work, at least those who have the task of helping and protecting fellow citizens in society. Whether you are a police officer, teacher, social secretary, bus driver or assistance officer or a member of another professional group where you have an important community assignment, you should be able to feel safe when you go to work. The government takes a very serious view of the increasing incidence of threats, violence and harassment of government employees. Under the responsibility of Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, work is currently under way on a number of important investigations and legislative proposals to increase the protection of government employees. Among other things, the so-called Bluelight investigation, to which reference was made, is tasked with reviewing the scale of penalties for violence against officials. Already today, social security secretaries are covered by the Act on Violence and Threats to Officials as they engage in the exercise of official authority. The government has taken a number of measures involving a general strengthening of criminal law protection against violence, threats and harassment. The government has also strengthened the protection of civil servants in particular. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has carried out a special supervisory effort in relation to the work environment of social secretaries, and this supervision work continues. It is important that both employers and society take the necessary measures to protect our socially-bearing professions. I very much welcome this interpellation, and I want to be clear from the government that we see the need for further action to increase both the protection of criminal law and the personal protection of those who exercise their office.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-709	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for everything! It sounds very positive that we have a consensus on these issues. The report I referred to in my previous speech is based on a total of 1,088 visits to a total of 145 municipalities. It says that more than one in three persons in the profession states that they have been subjected to violence or threats of violence. Furthermore, it says: a social secretary hesitates to report on the events out of fear of making his own shortcomings visible. ............................................................... ..................................................... It is extremely serious that social secretaries blame themselves when they are exposed to violence and threats of violence. The attitude of putting up with a little is totally reprehensible. No man should tolerate threats and violence at his workplace or, for that matter, elsewhere. Particularly serious is the situation of social secretaries working with the police in the fight against criminal families – it concerns criminal families where there are children. Often, social secretaries receive subtle threats that J ag knows where you live. The problem with these threats is, in addition to the fear they cause in the threatened, that they are difficult to investigate, take to court and get someone convicted for. Lisa Pedersen, head of security in Angered, testifies to how difficult threats are for relatives, especially when you have knowledge of the person who is threatening. People who have a reputation don't have to be so explicit. I welcome the fact that the Minister shares my view that when government personnel are threatened or subjected to violence, it is not only a problem for the individual's working environment, but, ultimately, it is a threat to the democratic rule of law. A more comprehensive approach is needed to correct the worrying development of society. That employers should take risk prevention measures, take care of those affected, improve safety procedures and ensure that police reports are made and so on is self-evident, but more is needed. I look forward to the investigation into increased penalties for the crime of violence or threats to officials. No one should be able to take the right to threaten without risking severe punishment. But in today's legislation, the threshold for threatening a social security secretary is very low. For a habitual offender, a suspicion of threatening an official is nothing in the flow of other crimes. It is no secret that the work of social secretaries is most difficult in the so-called exclusion areas. Overcrowding, unemployment and crime characterize life. At the same time, it is in these areas that social services are most needed. It must absolutely not abdicate there. This calls for a stronger attitude on the part of the state towards criminal clans that create parallel communities in the exclusion areas, parallel societies in which the clan leader rules and social services are regarded as a disturbance or at best as an ATM from which money can be obtained.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-718	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we fully agree on how serious this is, both in terms of the health and safety situation and the fact that this is a threat to the rule of law and democratic society. It is, of course, an attack on society when people attack people who work in the exercise of authority and who are important socio-economic groups. No one should be subjected to threats, violence or harassment in their work. One aspect which the interpellier highlights and which I think is important is that employers have a great responsibility to take all the measures necessary to protect workers. It is a question of prevention. It's about care. These are safety procedures, action plans and training. Employers must also ensure that local cooperation with safety representatives works and that risk assessments are carried out. I welcome the fact that Boriana Åberg highlights the report from the Academic Union SSR. It is very important that we as politicians listen to the knowledge of the two trade union organisations that organize social secretaries, the Academic Association SSR and the trade union Vision. We must take note of the analysis they are carrying out and ensure that they are able to ensure that the safety organisations work and that the safety representatives have the conditions that they need in the workplace. That almost one third of those who have been subjected to threats or violence say that they have not been supported by their employer in this connection is serious. Here employers must take greater responsibility and ensure that employees can feel safe and can turn to their employer if they are exposed. For those who work in the municipal social services, there is already an opportunity for the employer to take special measures to protect employees from reprisals. I think it is important to emphasise that it is important that employers also use this opportunity when necessary.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-723	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for this. We are very much in agreement, and that is gratifying. The Minister mentioned his colleague, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, and I think he is sitting on a large part of the answer. Much of his responsibility is that we should have fewer exclusion areas, fewer people who depend on social benefits and fewer people who end up in crime and also drag their children into crime, so that social services have to take care of them. I very much hope that the Minister can work with his colleague to put an end to the violence, not only in social services but also in other areas where people in a vulnerable situation, often from other countries, act against our authorities as if they were at war with them. Clan society, which does not approve of Swedish authorities, we will fight in every way, just like violence and threats in the workplace, whether it is directed at police officers, health professionals, teachers, social security secretaries or others in the front line. It is not worthy of a democracy that government decisions should be affected by the risk of threats and violence. Social secretaries have a very important role to play in society, especially for people in difficulties. A social secretary can be the difference, what determines whether a child is going to succeed in life or go wrong. We need social secretaries who are safe at work and safe in their professional activities in order to combat the enormous problems that our society is struggling with.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-727	Madam President, I would like As I said, the scale of serious violence or threats to officials has been tightened, and there has been a criminal report on illegal persecution. The possibility for the employer to protect certain personal data has been extended. A number of concrete measures have been taken, but more needs to be done. I think we agree on that. I very much welcome this debate. On 14 May 2020, the blue light investigation that we have been talking about here was added. When practitioners of socially useful functions are subjected to violence, threats, harassment and other crimes, it is not only an attack on those people, but ultimately also on democratic society. The criminal protection of these groups must therefore be effective and strong. There are many important functions for society that are not covered by the enhanced criminal protection provided for officials in Chapter 17. The penal code. Against this background, there is a need for a further analysis of what societal functions need to be strengthened and how such protection can be achieved. The investigator shall consider, among other things, what societal functions are in need of enhanced criminal protection and how such protection can be designed. The conclusions shall be presented by 12 November 2021. My hope is that the measures that the government has now taken and the work that is going on effectively will help us to overcome this serious social problem.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-731	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me how I can clarify the intention of the extra services measure, whether I have done any more detailed analysis of the socio-economic benefits and other benefits of the extra services in relation to the cost of the measure, and how I view the outcome and importance of the measure so far, and whether I intend to make any changes to the extra services effort ahead of 2021 in order to increase the proportion that leaves the measure and goes to non-subsidised employment. Work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society. Research shows that subsidised employment is an effective way of getting people with weaker ties to the labour market into work. The proportion of people who get a post-employment job varies between different subsidised jobs. This depends on the target group for the aid, the employers who receive the aid and how the Public Employment Service works with the aid. Extra services are targeted at those who are furthest from the labour market and are therefore deemed to be most in need of a subsidy. For those with an auxiliary service, the possibility of getting a job may increase directly or gradually in combination with other subsidised employment or activities. The employment rate of women born abroad is higher in Sweden than the EU average, but it is still too low. The Government believes that labour market policy should contribute to gender equality and counter a gender-disaggregated labour market. Extra services have contributed to a more balanced gender balance in subsidised employment. Extra services can create jobs and can increase the chances of employment, not least for foreign-born women who are a group with a particularly weak position in the labour market. Extra services also serve as a way into important welfare professions where there is currently a shortage of labour. One consequence of an individual receiving subsidised employment in order to strengthen his/her position in the labour market is that the individual's potential need for financial assistance from the municipality is reduced. As Minister for Labour, I do not comment on the application of regulations or the actions of authorities in individual cases. D is a matter for authorities and courts. The authorities are independent from the government and operate independently. The number of long-term unemployed has increased, leading to a need for action for those who have been out of work for a long time or for newcomers who are not in a position to find work without extensive support. Extra services serve such a purpose. These efforts shall be directed at those furthest from the labour market and shall have socially reasonable volumes.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-736	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation is about one of the government's, and perhaps one of Sweden's, most failed labour market policies, namely extra services. We can remind anyone who is watching this interpellation debate about what extra services are. It is 100% subsidised employment, primarily directed towards the public sector. A compensation of SEK 20 000 per month is paid. According to the Parliamentary Investigation Service, how many of them moved from an extra post to an unsubsidised employment in 2016 to 2019? Well, that was about 6%. 94% didn't. The cost – it has a professor calculated and reported on Svenska Dagbladet's debate page – will be SEK 7 million per job. It is therefore SEK 7 million per job. It is a fundamental failure, if it is a labour market policy measure. But there may be other purposes to the measure. In its reply, the Government suggests that people move from a supply support to a state cost. Of course it's a different purpose. That is what they say at home in my constituency, in Gävleborg. The party colleague of the Minister for Labour did not hymn in a municipal council debate. In a debate that I and the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board had, she said straight out: Yes, but if we did not have extra services, the cost would increase by SEK 30 million per year in support of supply, Lars Beckman. I do not think that we should have crafting measures where the aim is to move people away from subsistence support. I think, of course, that labour market policy measures should be precisely labour market policy measures, that is to say, one must carry out an activity involving people coming to work. Madam President, I would like One can speculate why extra services work so badly. I have a theory. Sandviken Municipality has 450 additional staff. Of course, there has not been an extra budget for 450 people in municipal service. When the additional services end, whether they are in care for the elderly, in preschool or elsewhere, the employment is terminated. These billions of billions could have been used – we know that by 2023 the additional services will cost about 10 billion – in other ways. This year the budget has been increased by half a billion. Of course, it would have been used in an alternative way. At home in my constituency, they had something called a Gästrikelling. People who were quite far from the labour market were allowed to be out with small private companies. They had to show them what they could. Maybe they even learned Swedish at work. There it was the opposite effect. There it was about 90%. I even think it was 95% where it was at its best. These people had to come out to a workplace. They had to show them what they could, and they got a job. The government has a measure where 94% do not move on to work. Then we would have liked the government to think about it: this does not work as we intended. If it is a labour market policy measure, the systems might be re-screwed and a much more efficient system. I am not against subsidised employment, quite the contrary. I think it might be very good to show your frontal feet. But obviously, extra services to the public sector do not work, because people do not get jobs. I have asked the question, and I would like an answer: can the Minister clarify the intention of the extra services measure, and what socio-economic benefits and benefits does the Government see with the extra services measure? I wonder, because 94% do not move on to an unsubsidised job.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-747	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the interpellation! First of all, I think it is important that we note that the coronapandemine will affect the Swedish labour market for a long time and several years to come. We see that the time in unemployment is longer for more and more people. At this point, we must do everything in our power to ensure that long-term unemployment does not get stuck at high levels. Unemployment is not just a problem for the person who loses his job; it is something that concerns the whole of society. If we allow long-term unemployment to persist, we risk both increasing social exclusion and weakening our common welfare. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government has therefore presented strong measures to enable those who become unemployed to have access to training and conversion and, if necessary, to receive support to find a new job. With the budget comes extensive investment for jobs and conversion. The Government has presented a total of SEK 11 billion for next year to measures for financial security, strengthened skills and improved job opportunities. Of these, 500 million are added to introductory jobs and additional services to create more jobs for newcomers and the long-term unemployed who can strengthen their position in the labour market. The additional services are aimed at those who are farthest from the labour market and are therefore deemed to have the greatest need for a subsidy. This increases the chances of working for people who have a particularly weak position in the labour market. This type of intervention is particularly important at a time when unemployment and long-term unemployment are increasing.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-751	Madam President, I would like Let's rehearse again. Between 2016 and 2019 we had no pandemic. According to the investigation service, 6 % goes to unsubsidised employment after 90 days. The cost of creating these jobs is therefore SEK 7 million per job. It is not small money, Madam President, but we are talking about 10 billion which the government intends to use for additional services. And you add half a billion more, just like the government said. If you have such a failed reform or activity, it would be reasonable to evaluate it. It would be reasonable to consider it if you do not get the result you want – and it is not the case that the aim is to shift the cost of supply aid to the State, but then one can still question whether it is an appropriate measure. The most serious is not the cost to taxpayers, but the fact that the individual is locked into a system and stops looking for a job. I've met people who have extra services, and I'm sure they're doing a valuable job and think they're doing it. It is a very fair compensation to receive 20 000 a month, but the problem, for example in Sandviken's case, is that 450 people have not been budgeted for. If it were the case that Sandviken Municipality needed 450 more employees, I demand that Sandviken Municipality budget for it and hire the people for real jobs, unsubsidised employment. The next problem in this is that there will be a spill-over effect. We see in Malmö that private entrepreneurs are dismissed and that they intend to put people who have extra services to do that job instead. We can see the same thing in Ockelbo, where it happened recently. The private entrepreneur responsible for land management and park management in Ockelbo is dismissed and is likely to replace it with additional services. There will be direct displacement effects of healthy, prosperous companies replaced by this measure, which unfortunately has very little effect. Maybe you should think new and different. I would like to repeat that I am not against subsidised employment. I think it is an excellent measure to allow people to show what they can, but then perhaps we should change the whole system and target the small and medium-sized enterprises that can actually hire and budget. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour a question. Given that, as the Minister said, we have a pandemic and are at risk of mass unemployment, it is important that if you use 10 1⁄2 billion, you have measures that really have an effect and that make Lars Beckman, if he has a labour market policy measure, have a chance to get a job in the workplace where he is. I do not believe that neither I nor the Government believe that Sandviken can budget for 450 people to get a permanent job in Sandviken municipality. Then the individual has wasted time on an extra job rather than being able to get a job that is unsubsidised. My question remains: given the very low outburst of people going to unsubsidised employment, what socio-economic analysis has the Minister done? Or is the minister satisfied with a 6% outcome? That will be the consequence of doing nothing: you are pleased to spend 10 billion for a few 6% of unsubsidised jobs and every unsubsidised job costs 7 million. Is that a reasonable use of the money?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-758	Madam President, I would like We have a number of different labour market policy measures, which one might say are tailored to different target groups. If we have a labour market policy effort aimed at those who are farthest from the labour market, it is clear that it is no wonder that, when you count the transition directly to other jobs, the result is lower than, for example, for labour market training courses where employers and trade unions work together on specific shortages where you have a shortage of labour and need to employ directly. The head of the Labour Market Section of the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, Roy Melchert, says that there are many advantages to the additional services both for municipalities and for individuals: And for the municipalities, it has been part of the strategic supply of skills, an opportunity to bring people into health care. ..................................................... Of course I'm not happy. I want to ensure that people get support and quickly get into education or work. That is why the government's efforts to reform the Employment Service and develop labour market policy are so important. I see that more and more people are realising the possibilities of extra services. There are party friends of Lars Beckman who celebrate the extra services and who see that by giving the opportunity for a foreign born woman, for example, to enter the labour market and then fill in with an education to, for example, health care workers, can create jobs and solve some labour shortages that exist today. Madam President, I would like For the government, it is obvious that women and men should have equal conditions and conditions for participation and establishment in working life and social life. Arbetsförmedlingen has an important task here to get both women and men to work and to contribute to the gender equality policy objectives. In December 2020 10,983 people had an extra service. Sixty-three per cent were women, compared with 39 per cent for introductory jobs and 33 per cent for new start-up jobs. Supplementary services thus contribute to a more balanced gender balance in subsidised employment. For people who are far from the labour market, not least foreign-born women, additional services are a good way to get a foothold into working life.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-763	Madam President, I would like I am surprised by the Government's view of a measure whose aim has failed to 94%. However, I agree with the Government's view that there are municipal politicians who are very satisfied, such as the party friend of the Government in Gävle, who do not hymns but says that extra services are about moving people away from the support. This is, of course, because the state has taken a spring note, that we have had many foreign born who have come to Sweden in a short time and have not established themselves on the labour market and that one then has to try to solve the economy of the municipality in some way. This is of course why Sandviken has 450 people in extra services, and that is why Gävle has expanded the extra services considerably. The problem for the individual, Madam President, is that every day on an extra job is a lost day if the purpose is to get a job. If you had been to Nisses's sheet metal warehouse and had had to show what you could have had a chance to get a job, but Sandviken Municipality has of course not budgeted to increase the number of employees by 450 people to. That's why extra services don't work – you can't stay at work when the action ends. As I said, there are a large number of councillors who are trying to get their finances together, and then they are naturally pleased that the state is taking over the cost. However, the moment the subsidy ceases, the person is likely to return to the supply support. It's bad for the individual, and it's bad for society. After all, we are all taxpayers, whether it is a municipality or a state that pays. My question to the Government is again: does the Government intend to try to change and improve the extra services measure, where 10 1⁄2 billion is used, to try to get a measure that leads to more unsubsidised employment after the end of the measure?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-767	Madam President, I would like For many, not least foreign-born women, getting the opportunity for an extra service gives a work experience in Sweden and the first line of the CV. In this way, an additional service may also be important for them to enter an education or, in the long term, to get a job, either directly or gradually. In 2021, the Government will invest SEK 500 million in introductory jobs and additional services for newly arrived and the long-term unemployed in order to strengthen their position in the labour market. This is just one of the very many tools that Arbetsförmedlingen has in its toolbox. We present a historically powerful budget with investments of over SEK 100 billion. Overall, the budget, including investments in climate change and welfare, is estimated to create around 75 000 new jobs. The budget is not just about these 500 million SEK for introductory jobs and extra services, as I mentioned. There are also reinforcements on the unemployment fund that are extended to 2022, so that more people are covered by financial security. Here is SEK 1 billion for Arbetsförmedlingen to manage more unemployed and to ensure local presence throughout the country. Here is SEK 1 billion for matching services, so that those who need support to find a job or start studying get the right support. And here are among other things SEK 772 million for labour market training to strengthen job seekers through vocational training and to solve the problems of shortage professions. More certainly needs to be done, and I am not ruling out more efforts. We should remember that we currently have the most serious crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. Then, as responsible politicians, we need to do our utmost to provide people with the right support.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-771	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me what analysis I make of Arbetsförmedlingen's need for resources given that resources have not been used as planned. Furthermore, he has asked me if I will take any steps and changes to the agency's mission and additional resources in the future. Work is the most important prerequisite for self-sufficiency and establishment in society. In the wake of the pandemic, unemployment has risen sharply, as has the number of job seekers enrolled in the Employment Service. The government has taken strong measures to reduce the impact of the pandemic on jobs and businesses, and significant resources have been added, among other things, to labour market policies. Arbetsförmedlingen's return of part of the allocated funds has several explanations. Part of the savings are due to the fact that the unemployment rate in 2020 was not as high as expected, which resulted in lower expenditure on unemployment benefits. The pandemic has also meant that Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to decide on interventions has deteriorated when workplace interventions have not been available to the same extent as before due to risks of contamination, which has affected resource utilisation. Access to jobs and jobs has decreased, resulting in fewer subsidised and new start-up jobs. The Public Employment Service has also had to focus resources on managing the historical highs whose electricity levels and entering the many new unemployed. The extent to which the pandemic would affect activities and interventions has been difficult to predict. Also affecting 2020 is that the administrative resources of the Employment Service and the scope of labour market policy efforts decreased sharply in 2019 as a result of the budget decided by the Riksdag. At the beginning of 2020, efforts were down to levels that made it difficult to reach larger volumes in 2020. At the same time, I can see that in the second half of the year in particular, despite the pandemic, there was a positive development in which more and more unemployed people took action. For example, employment support for people who are far from the labour market has been able to increase during the year, and the number of people who are allowed to benefit from procured matching services has increased significantly during the end of 2020. The Government has taken measures to facilitate this by extending the maximum duration of introductory jobs, additional services and support for the start-up of business activities as well as by mandates to streamline the processes for instruction to procured matching services. It is important that the agency's activities continue to develop so that the resources allocated to the agency are effectively allocated to job seekers. On the question of changes to the employment agency's assignments and resource supplements in the future, work on the reform of the agency continues, and the need for resources is kept under review. Finally, I would like to say that active labour market policies are important in keeping employment at an economic slowdown. It is also important that Arbetsförmedlingen continues to have the potential to meet a high level of unemployment.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-778	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Despite an unprecedented crisis in the labour market, the Employment Service last year returned just over SEK 6 billion, money that could, should and should have gone to combat unemployment and welfare. Just giving more money to the Employment Service, Madam President, is like pouring water into a bucket full of holes. Even before the coronapandemy, Sweden had unemployment among the EU's highest, despite Stefan Lövven's promise to the contrary. Long-term unemployment was record high and unemployment among immigrants was highest in the EU. Unemployment is currently the highest in a quarter of a century, youth unemployment is the highest in one hundred years and long-term unemployment and unemployment among immigrants is also record high. The fact that the Arbetsförmedlingen does not spend its money has been a recurring fact and problem during the time of the Red-Green Government. But 2020 is actually breaking all the records. This has been repeatedly proposed by the Moderates over the years, both as regards the Public Employment Service as such and as regards the appropriations and the waste of tax money. This says a lot about a dysfunctional authority in an extremely great need for reform. But above all, Madam President, it says a lot about the incapacity of both the government and the January parties over a long period of years to rule one of the country's most important authorities. I have therefore put the question to the Social Democratic Minister for Labour, Eva Nordmark, about what all this says about the government's governance of the agency. But this does not even concern the Minister for Labour in his reply. She also says that this is a one-off incident in a year that has been extreme due to the pandemic. Let us look at the facts, Madam President. The truth is that every year since the Social Democratic Government took office in 2014, the Swedish Public Employment Service has returned its excessive funding – 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Once again, Madam President, the basic problems here are two: firstly, of course, that the government is so obviously not able to manage its own authority, and secondly, that it is more or less deliberately wasting billions each year. It is money that would have gone to combat the long-standing high Swedish unemployment, so that in the first-May speeches and here in Parliament's pulpit it can wrongly be said that billions have been spent against unemployment, money that is also spent only on administering unemployment and not on combating it. Madam President, I would like What does this say about the government's governance of its authority, and why is nothing done about it?
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-787	Madam President, I would like Mats Green says that it has been a recurring fact and problem during the Red-Green Government that the Employment Service does not spend its money. He points in particular to the year 2020. But if Mats Green had been eager to look further back in history, he would have seen that this has been a fact for many years and that funding savings are something that occurs repeatedly. We can also see that this has been done under various governments, both for labour market policy measures and for individual employment to the unemployed. Even in the 2008 – 2009 financial crisis, significant savings were generated, Madam President. I would also like to comment on another statement by Mats Green. It is actually quite remarkable, Mats Green, when you describe Arbetsförmedlingen as a dysfunctional authority. I would like to say that this is about thousands of employees at the Employment Service who do their utmost every day to deal with all the notifications that have come in. In 2020, an extreme year, they did their utmost every day to provide the right support to all the people who have become unemployed and help them get into education or work. Despite these tough conditions in the most serious crisis we have seen in modern times, in fact, as I described at the beginning, there was a positive development in the second half of 2020: more and more unemployed people got an input, despite the very serious situation on the Swedish labour market. I have to say that somewhere I think it would be honourable if Mats Green could also give some thought to his own role in this. How does Mats Green himself think about the fact that this House voted through a budget for the financial year 2019 which meant that 4,500 people at the Employment Service were given notice of dismissal? It was the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which were voted through together with the Swedish Democrats. I would like to ask Mats Green if it has had any impact on the conditions that our important agency Arbetsförmedlingen has had during the tough year we went through in 2020.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-790	Madam President, I would like Yes, what we are criticising here is the total lack of governance of one of the country's largest authorities that the Social Democratic-led government has demonstrated since it took office. It is unacceptable in this way to spend tax money more or less deliberately which would have gone to combat unemployment and welfare. They are now being wasted, more or less deliberately, on simply administering unemployment. Again, it is the government that controls its authorities. As Eva Nordmark stands here and actually blames officials and employees, they do not stand up, but they actually have to assume their responsibilities as a government. Eva Nordmark said in her answer:"Pandemin has also meant that Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to decide on interventions has deteriorated when workplace interventions have not been available to the same extent as before due to risks of contamination, which has affected resource utilisation. Access to jobs and jobs has decreased, resulting in fewer subsidised and new start-up jobs. Yes, as we said before: The government is trying to blame the pandemic. But the truth is that the problems have existed for several years and that the Social Democrats have been totally uninterested in them. For example, traineeships have declined every year since 2015, when there was no pandemic. New start jobs have decreased dramatically since 2017, and in 2019, no activity was the second most common Also in 2018, no activity was the second most common, the job and development guarantee and the job guarantee for young people, the Minister for Labour. That is, of course, unacceptable. We leave much of these groups – young people and the long-term unemployed – to their fate. That is totally unacceptable and, in the long term, untenable, Madam President. I think the answer suggests a lack of awareness of the government's problems. The problems of the Public Employment Service with falling results, using resources for effective interventions and with a consistently really low level of trust have existed for many years. The government and the January parties believe that this is mainly due to the pandemic and, as the Minister for Labour said here, to a budget of more than two years. If you make that assessment, the situation is more serious than I feared. In order to overcome an inefficient employment service and to reduce the record level of unemployment, there is indeed a need for problem insight and active and clear governance by the government, which has shone with its absence over a long period of years. When it is claimed that 2020 was an extreme year, it also ignores the fact that it has been the same development since the Social Democratic Government took office in 2014. It ignores the fact that Sweden's unemployment was one of the highest in the EU even before the coronapandemy, despite – as I said – Prime Minister Lövven's promise to the contrary. I am concerned about this inaction because, in the long run, it risks leading to unnecessarily high unemployment and fewer people working for their livelihoods, and therefore also to less resources for our common well-being, Madam President. It is unacceptable and untenable.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-796	Madam President, I would like Mats Green makes a chicken out of a feather when it comes to spending money. I would like to reiterate that funding savings have been in place for several years, even during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, when the Moderates accounted for government ownership. Looking at the savings made in 2020, I can see that 40% of this is about unemployment not being as high as we would have thought. Thus, the unemployment insurance did not require the same amount of individual benefits, which should be something that pleases Mats Green. But then there is also a pandemic, and the Employment Service has really worked hard to provide good support to the people who have become unemployed. However, it has been very difficult with, among other things, workplace activities, for the simple reason that a lot of people have worked from home. Because of the risk of infection, job seekers have not been accepted in the same way as before. I also note that Mats Green chooses not to answer at all the question I asked, namely how he himself is considering the fact that the budget voted through for 2019 actually also meant an incredibly tough start for the agency in 2020. As a result of that budget, the scope of labour market policy interventions decreased sharply in 2019 and was in early 2020 down at levels that made it difficult to reach more comprehensive volumes when the impact of the pandemic hit. Since then, the Government and the cooperation parties have presented new budgets, and with the budget proposal for 2021, Arbetsförmedlingen has been strengthened by SEK 1 billion to meet the rising unemployment rate and ensure an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. It is very important that Arbetsförmedlingen continues to have the conditions to meet a high unemployment rate. Madam President, I would like When Mats Green analyses Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to use allocated resources, he is very happy to reflect on the role of Moderates in the agency's capacity to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. What conditions gave the sudden reduction of more than SEK 3 billion to the Employment Service to handle a strong influx of new unemployed people? I'll ask that question again.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-801	Madam President, I would like We are not even trying to win a race to spend more money than the government to administer unemployment. I have been nice here today, because the actual amount returned by the Employment Service is 8.7 billion. We could have discussed the remaining sums, but I have chosen not to do so because they are individual-based remuneration. Instead, I focus on administrative appropriations and other things. I note that although the Minister for Labour claims that the Employment Service received too little money in 2019, they also returned money at that time. Again: The government's governance of one of the country's largest agencies does not work and has not worked since it took office in 2014. Let me conclude with a few words from Eva Nordmark's party friend Per Svensson, Social Democratic Commissioner of Falkenberg. He writes that he can't be quiet now and that it's nothing but unacceptable for the Public Employment Service to return 6 billion in the crisis year 2020. He also writes that it is nothing more than a huge failure when AF also does so year after year while unemployment is far too high and companies are screaming for skills. He also notes that the breakdown of state labour market policies has received far too little attention in the debate on exclusion, segregation and inequality. He goes on to say that the current Director-General is new and cannot be blamed for the failure and that there are only opportunities for improvement for the government. Madam President, I would like I agree with every word of Eva Nordmark's own party friends' judgment over their government's passivity, evasiveness and constant blame on others.
i-7b8c88e0551a239e-808	Madam President, I would like I can at least say that I share Mats Green's commitment to labour market policy. We must now do everything we can to reduce the impact of the crisis on jobs and businesses and to prevent long-term unemployment from remaining at high levels. Unfortunately, I do not see that the Moderates have the right recipe to meet the historical challenges that we face. The policies of the Moderates mean only duty, no right. The moderates' work line is that the only way to get people to look for jobs is to make the compensations as low as possible. One of the first things the Moderates did when they came to power in 2006 was to go after the unemployment fund. There was a shock increase in charges and a deterioration in conditions. This led to half a million people leaving the unemployment fund. When the financial crisis then struck in 2008, too many people were completely excluded from the security provided by the unemployment fund. Madam President, I would like The government's policy is different. During this crisis, we have strengthened the unemployment fund and made sure that more people are covered by it. We are now making sure to invest historical sums for climate change change and investments in welfare. This will bring about 75,000 new jobs in these years. We also continue to expand the knowledge boost. We have provided funds so that the number of study places in the country can be greatly expanded, and many people have taken this opportunity to build on their knowledge. That is how we are changing the jobs of the future and getting stronger out of this crisis. If there is someone unemployed who has seen this debate, I would like to tell you that it is not over. Continue looking for a job; there are jobs to apply for. Stay active! Get an education! It's a really tough time now, but we're gonna get through this together.
