i-7810fcde6f2fb643-9	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he intends to take the initiative to ensure that seasonal tourism companies continue to be eligible for support and not end up between the chairs. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. On 25 February 2021, the extension of the conversion aid for the period August 2020 to February 2021 entered into force. The extension is an important part of the historically major measures presented by the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals in order to alleviate the effects of the pandemic on jobs and businesses. As the intervener pointed out, the aid is calculated slightly differently from previous aid periods in the conversion aid. As the interpellier has also noted, the change in the calculation model is due to the alignment of the aid with the European Commission's temporary framework for Corona-related aid. I note that the changes were necessary in order to obtain state aid approval. The old model had therefore not been approved by the Commission. I also note that the new model of calculation for certain individual companies may be more favourable than the old model. For example, a small company with small margins on sales can still receive up to 90% of its fixed costs in aid, even though the turnover rate is only over 30%. On the other hand, for other companies with a large margin of sales, the opposite may be the case. This is because companies with large sales margins may be able to finance their fixed costs even in large turnover stages. Thus, whether the new model is getting better or worse for a seasonal company depends mainly on the margin of sales of the company, not when the year of the sale falls. The Government continues its efforts to continuously analyse the need for measures and to monitor developments closely.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-16	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. 2021 is an extremely tough year for our companies. The service companies have lived on the brink of bankruptcies for a long time because airbags or if you want buffers, if you even managed to scrape them together, have gone to having the houses left and food on the table. The possibility of having any savings capital at all is not many granted. Some who have been able to borrow their homes further, if the banks have been able to do so. Others have turned to relatives and friends for a helping hand by means of means of survival. Those who have been able to raise and lend if they believe that the money will arrive in a reasonable time, so that companies succeed in overwintering and coping with the pandemic. Madam President, I would like This is boring, it gnaws in your head and stomach, and it affects your mental health to live with a great worry about yourself, your employees and the life's work you have built up. You don't want to see that disappear into a big black hole. I understand the disillusionment and disappointment that exists and perhaps even the desperation of having stood in line to the Swedish Agency for Growth and is referred around when you seek answers that no one gives. It must be understood that entrepreneurs who have gone and waited to apply for conversion aid for the period August 2020 to February 2021, and who have met previous criteria in the previous round, feel totally cheated when new rules of the game come in and the government informs that the calculation model has been redesigned. It'll be a cold shower. Imagine that companies made choices there and then, in early 2020, on the basis of calculations of persevering until now to get support to make progress. Then you have invested in holding out for nine months, just to know that you do not belong to those with the opportunity to get support. It's got to be frivolous. I understand that entrepreneurs have assumed that the rules that applied during the previous period would also apply now. I would like to hear the Minister for Finance tell us how the government has presented these descriptions to the Commission on the grounds that countries differ. In addition, it will be inhumane to allow entrepreneurs to live in good faith but introduce a system that provides state aid rules in a different way from what was originally intended. The carpet is pulled aside for those to be covered by the new system. What was the Commission's response to state aid which could not be obtained on the basis of the previous criteria? We know that it was difficult for the restaurant industry to combine conversion aid and lay-off aid. We also know that support requiring staff to be employed on a regular basis has caused companies that have created new concerns with so-called seasonal jobs that they always have, because that is the norm for their work. They are completely excluded from the possibility of applying. What we also know is that entrepreneurs with the whole life dream of owners first manage all their variable and fixed costs before doing anything else. They pay their staff. They're trying to keep them as long as they can. And if they do not have the opportunity themselves, they will at least wait a few months until they can get their own pay, and that can be a long time. The company always goes first. Those who have then applied for support and been laid off by the owners last spring have started their business during the holiday, and they have not taken out money for themselves. Then they end up on the wrong side of the subsidies. This is right according to the system, but it is wrong in a small businessman's everyday life. I am pleased with the companies that have come into question for the support that is now. However, I am suffering from those who have been given new rules of the game and have been excluded, so the Minister for Finance will have to clarify the Commission's reasoning on the decisions on the new conditions.
i-XnxvcUrRmDKEswoR4RHK2v	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for a very important interpellation! Madam President, I would like It's entrepreneurship and jobs that built this country. Without Sweden's entrepreneurs, we would have no place to work. That is why it is so worrying about this government's view of Swedish entrepreneurship. It is this government's view that has done, just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson describes in his post, that companies are now being squeezed when they have developed new support. Madam President, I would like I listened to the Minister of Finance in P1 morning some time ago. She was there as a guest. At the end of the interview, the programme director said something like this: I understand that the Swedish Agency for Growth has been under political pressure when it comes to reviewing payments and other things. The logical answer from the Minister for Finance, Madam President, would then reasonably have been: no, we have not. We don't run our government like that. We have independent and independent authorities in Sweden. But, Madam President, the Minister for Finance did not reply, but the Minister for Finance replied: yes, that is right. We have had a person who has reviewed the payments, and – freely interpreted by me– there was a lot of cheating and wrong. Madam President, I would like This means that we have a new governance model in Sweden, a model that means that the Minister for Finance's closest employees exert political pressure on the Swedish Agency for Growth. Some form of control of payments has been made that is not open to me as a Member of Parliament to review, not open to professional organisations to review and not open to the media to review – but is something that the Minister of Finance thinks and thinks. Madam President, I would like It is quite possible that it is this view of Swedish entrepreneurship that means that Sweden's small businesses are now literally in trouble. It is the small businessmen who have fought around the clock to save their businesses and their employees' jobs. I think it's pitiful. Last Friday I met a company active in the railway industry. They told and described how the subsidies did not reach them, but thanks to their owner they are still there. Today, the bus companies go out and alert an industry in crisis that needs support. We know that Sweden's restaurant entrepreneurs turn on their pots at three o'clock in the day. Today Elisabeth Svantesson will visit one of these restaurants here in Stockholm. I myself receive messages on Messenger, text messages, phone calls and emails from desperate small business people who are now at risk of seeing their life's work go down. It is small businessmen who have put their house and home in pledges. It is small businessmen who have tried to do the right thing but who are met by a finance minister who says straight out in Swedish Radio: Yes, we have had a person at the Ministry of Finance who has reviewed the Swedish Growth Agency's operations. Madam President, I would like We cannot have this governance of Sweden, and this view of Swedish small businesses is not worthy of a finance minister. I think that the view of small businesses should be: this pandemic can no one help, so of course we will do everything to help you so that the jobs remain. I would like to know from the Minister for Finance: does the Minister for Finance think that companies deserve support?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-37	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answer and Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a very urgent interpellation. Madam President, I would like Exactly a month ago, I asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson a written question about the changed rules for the conversion aid and the new parameter for the coverage premium. The answer I was given was: the revised calculation model is due to the alignment of the aid with the European Commission's temporary framework for Corona-related support. The changes were necessary in order for the aid to receive State aid approval, which is necessary for Sweden to be able to grant the aid. Madam President, I would like We are shoveling billions into the EU fund to support more or less understandable efforts in other parts of Europe. But we cannot support the most vulnerable entrepreneurs in our own country – the small neighborhood restaurant, the café or the small hospitality store in the country. As usual, we just stand by and bow and let others decide the rules, and then we accept their stupidity. It is incredibly badly handled by the Minister of Finance and the government. With all due respect, the reasoning in the minister's interpellation response testifies to ignorance and total disinterest to do something about the problem. That is why I ask the Minister for Finance: what is the advice of the Minister of Finance to the restaurant, which has fought its way through eight months with a large reduction and a negative coverage premium every month and which finally sees the light of a small surplus that can cover some of the previous losses and has expected to be able to seek conversion aid, just as it has been possible to do before, but finds that because of changed rules it is no longer possible?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-43	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a good interpellation. Companies and the work line form the basis for all our well-being. The transparency Lars Beckman talked about must exist. We must be able to take note of what forms the decision of the Minister for Finance. Conversion support must be available to save businesses so that we have jobs to go to after the pandemic. The jobs are at the core of tax revenue for welfare. The rules have now been re-established and entrepreneurs who have adapted to the previous rules are under pressure. It is important to help these entrepreneurs in seasonal, restaurant and so on so that these jobs remain after the pandemic. Madam President, I would like What is the Minister going to do to help the entrepreneurs who get caught?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-49	Madam President, I would like The government has taken historically large measures to support companies and Swedish jobs through this crisis. To be able to do this, we must comply with existing EU legislation and support must be approved by the European Commission. If we distribute aid that is not approved by the European Commission, the companies risk becoming liable for repayment themselves. It is therefore important to have clear approval. The European Commission was quick on the ball but has also changed the rules during the journey. In the aid we had in June and July, it was a ceiling of 8 million, but in the broader support we now have, the ceiling is 97 million. Boriana Åberg says we shouldn't accept stupidity. If Boriana Åberg wants me to argue before the Commission that we should go back to a support of 8 million and a narrower circle, we can have such a discussion, but I am not sure that that would be better. Why has the European Commission changed the rules of the game? They are very busy with not being able to get support for loss of profit, and it is one of the things that makes them change the rules in this way. That is the argument I have been told, and I put no value in it. Of course, we need to stick to the existing legislation, but I fully understand that entrepreneurs who were previously supported but cannot get it under the new framework are very disappointed. At the same time, there are companies that were unable to obtain support in the past, which can now receive support under this framework, as well as more support. To Lars Beckman I would like to say the following: The government appointed an investigator, Stefan Strömberg, who would follow the payment of the subsidies, and that was him I referred to in the radio interview. It's very strange that Lars Beckman is trying to make it sound like something else. The investigator has submitted a report that is open and public and that it would be great for Lars Beckman to read. But do not try to claim that something else is happening here, but it is all right! It is precisely in the way that is important for the government – that you follow the payments to see if there are risks of cheating and that you can take action. For me, this is important. Of course we should support companies in the crisis, but it is taxpayers' money. It's important to keep them in order. We want the money to end up in the right pockets, namely with those companies that are in great need of support right now.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-56	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Finance for his reply on state aid, which the Commission has decided should not go to loss of profit as the government has been told. Is there an opportunity for the government to influence actively in Brussels? That is the remaining issue. What did they say? Having said that, it is important that support is adapted in every way so that it really does hit the right place, just as we have discussed. I want to use this post to talk about another form of support that has been squeezed. It is a matter of partnership and of the government's choice of construction for that support. Commercial companies have been given the opportunity to apply for sales support from the Government. You have to have a turnover of 200 000 SEK to be considered. It is a limit that is decided on the basis of factors that the Minister of Finance is happy to clarify to all those entrepreneurs who are listening to this today and who have not been able to get answers when they have called around to various people in the Government Office. These are commercial companies which are seeking and which happen to have two or more owners on paper and which get into trouble because two out of three partners are passive. The two passive owners may have entered the company 20 years ago but do not make a living on it but have their own jobs or companies. They are still included in the government's basis for whether or not to receive the aid, which means that it will be a sum that does not land on the 200 000 that you are supposed to have. Instead, the sum is aggregated for the two additional persons. It is 200 000 plus 200 000 plus 200 000, i.e. 600 000 SEK, which becomes the criterion for the company with its passive owners to be able to participate according to the application rules. Guess if the entrepreneur becomes snipe who tries to be eligible for support in different ways, after not having previously been able to get the other grants, when he finally gets answers from the Government Office, which he has been at: 中 Happy in mind looking for the person but then encounters the answer that it is not possible because there are two passive owners in the company. I understand that the Swedish Companies Registration Office receives calls about this: that companies want to change their form of business. If I have understood correctly, there is also a question about the form of aid. What I, and all the companies that were supposed to be able to apply for the aid, want to know is how this combined aid landed in this form. The Minister for Finance will be happy to respond to this in his next speech. What the government is actually accomplishing with its construction of the aid is to exclude a lot of trading companies that have passive owners, which is a very common form in Sweden. You can imagine five guys starting a company, an IT company, where one becomes the active one. Since there are not enough resources to run the company for all five, four will be passive and have jobs as police, carpenters, electricians and perhaps bakers in the meantime. They don't get any money from the system. They're going up to a sum of five times 200,000, that is, 1 million. It makes no sense. I would like to emphasise once again and point out that it is common for partnerships to have arrangements where a person is an active owner. So you have to up to 500 hours to become active. If it now turns out that there has been a mistake in the construction of the government and that the outcome is this bad, I wonder if the Minister of Finance wants to adjust the support so that it will have a good effect and so that the county boards, which handle it today, do not do this themselves but can have contact with the Tax Agency. This is a simple thing to control. The Minister of Finance! Are there any possibilities for these companies to receive the aid that is intended to go to them but which they miss because there is passive ownership, which is common in partnerships?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-67	Madam President, I would like The question asked the Minister of Finance in the Swedish Radio's P1 morning was concrete. And, Madam President, anyone who logs into the Swedish Radio Play can listen to what the Minister for Finance was asked and what the Minister for Finance answered. The question she was asked was: Have you put political pressure on the Swedish Agency for Growth, which has delayed support for Swedish entrepreneurship? Unfortunately, the answer from the Minister for Finance was yes to that question. You can listen to it. Everyone can go to the Swedish Radio Play and do it. That is, of course, a remarkable answer. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Social Democrats' view of Swedish enterprise is characterised by suspicion. This is what has led us to the situation that competitor countries – for some companies – such as Denmark and Germany have fast and fast support and save jobs while the Swedish government is dragging its feet. I received a text this weekend from an entrepreneur in Gävleborg who will apply for support from the Swedish Agency for Growth. Just like Ann-Ann-Charlotte said, the money's over. It's empty. You get on your knees, you've pawned your house and your home, and you've made your family run. The answer was that it is three to five months' processing time. It is totally unacceptable for companies to get on their knees and for subsidies to fail. My simple question to the Minister for Finance, of course, is: what action does the Minister of Finance intend to take here and now to speed up the processing times of the companies that are entitled to support, and what are they going to do for those companies that are now apparently thrown under the bus with this system and which Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's interpellation is about?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I think the Minister chooses to misunderstand my message. My message is that Sweden, as a net contributor to the EU and as a major contributor to the Corona Fund, should be better at negotiating. The government has failed miserably, a failure paid for by taxpayers and by the suffering companies. I did not understand that the Minister answered my question, and so I shall repeat it: what is the minister's advice to the restaurant which has fought its way through eight months with large negative and negative contributions each month, which at last sees the light in a month with a little increased revenue covering some of the previous losses and which has expected to be able to apply for conversion aid, but which answers that unfortunately this is not possible because the rules have been changed?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-73	Madam President, I would like Companies and the work line – this is what provides the basis for all our well-being. In Stenungsund, from which I come, I make many company visits together with Municipal Commissioner Maria Renfors. This is something that is extremely important and rewarding in all political work. The top of the company's wish list is long-term, because then you have the opportunity to adapt to the regulations that exist. But when regulations change, you get caught. I understand the feelings when you now see your life's work – a life's work that has perhaps been worked up for generations – washed out with the bath water. My question to the Minister is therefore, Madam President: it is clear that companies are being squeezed. What can we do to support viable companies that have been built up for a long time but are now being washed away?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-75	Madam President, I would like As far as issues relating to partnerships and the more specific rules for them are concerned, it is the responsibility of Ibrahim Baylan. In fact, if you want good answers to those questions, I think it is better to put them to the responsible minister. As regards the long processing times of the Swedish Agency for Growth, I am the first to be concerned about them. The Swedish Agency for Growth has been given a very large task in managing the short-term lay-offs and the many applications that have come in there, and the Government has on several occasions increased the resources for the Swedish Agency for Growth to be able to employ additional staff. Staff from other authorities have also been lent to the Swedish Agency for Growth to facilitate both processing and control. However, we can see that these are still long processing times, and that is very worrying. It is of course important that the Swedish Agency for Growth works on everything they can to reduce processing times as much as possible. While waiting to receive support for short-term lay-offs, there is a possibility of tax deferral. Last year the tax could be deferred for three months, and now there is the possibility of a further three months' deferral of the tax. It can therefore be a liquidity bridge until the aid is granted for short-term lay-offs. Of course, if you are sure that you will get this money, there are also private creditors, which could be an opportunity. But, of course, it should not have to be that way, but the aid should be able to be paid out considerably faster than that. In addition to short-term and conversion aid, there are also other aid to enterprises. I was talking about tax deferrals, and we have increased resources to Almi to enable them to support companies further. In addition, we have rental support and reduced employers' fees for young people. We are therefore working in various ways on the part of the government to support companies through this crisis. I have to say that we work very differently from what the Alliance Government did during the financial crisis, as this type of aid did not exist for all the companies that went bankrupt at the time.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-79	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance, and for the reference to Ibrahim Baylan, our Minister of Economic Affairs, on questions of conversion aid! I asked him the question we are debating today about two months ago. It was removed from debate and sent over to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance would then debate with me two weeks before Easter, but then the Minister of Finance disappeared from the Chamber. This has resulted in us standing here today. You can send questions between you, but perhaps you can also take the question with you to the government in order to get an answer to it. I come back to the commercial companies because I want the matter to come up with the government, because these passive partners are thus an obstacle to receiving the aid at all. It is strange that the county administrative boards are tasked with solving this, while the Swedish Tax Agency is on the numbers – and they cannot be talked to. It will not be easier in our country with such an arrangement. We Moderates have pushed for different support for companies, and the Moderates have also developed support. In June 2020, the Riksdag supported the proposal of Moderates and other opposition parties to find support for those who run an individual firm. Sweden has many different kinds of companies, and they all do a good job and a fantastic job. We can't afford to put them in line for Arbetsförmedlingen – a winding queue that never ends unless we manage to save companies and jobs for Sweden's future. I would like to conclude by saying that if it had not been for the efforts of the Moderates, it might not have gone as well as it has done in the terrible situation in which we find ourselves.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-83	Madam President, I would like I understand that it is frustrating to be in opposition at this stage; the government has acted very actively throughout the crisis. We have acted to ensure resources for healthcare, elderly care and vaccination, to stop the spread of infection and support individuals and, not least, to save Swedish companies and Swedish jobs through the crisis. Having said that, many, not least smaller, companies are still having an extremely tough time. This applies in the hotel and restaurant industry, in cultural events and in the travel industry, as well as in transport. We see how companies really struggle and have been fighting for a long time. I am also impressed by the ability of many entrepreneurs to adapt in Sweden, and that is something that bodes well for the future. Now it is also important that companies seek the support they can be eligible for. I find it all too often that we do not have sufficient knowledge of what aid is available and to which we could be entitled. It is of course important here that we all help to disseminate the information so that companies that may be eligible for aid do not risk going bankrupt because they do not have that knowledge. As far as the division of labour in the government is concerned, I am responsible for conversion aid and short-term lay-offs, while Ibrahim Baylan is responsible for turnover aid and aid to commercial companies. The detailed wording of those rules is therefore better suited to answer, while I am here today to answer a question relating to conversion aid.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-87	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me, in response to my reply of 17 March 2021, whether the issue of the impact of import VAT is currently being prepared within the Government Office, whether I can give substance to what I intend to do with the preparation of the matter. He has also asked when the results of this preparation can be expected to be presented, whether I can explain the directives on which the preparation work is based and when companies can expect the solution to this problem to come into force. The background to this case is a request from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, where it is proposed that the government introduce new rules on the right to deduct import VAT. The request relates to imports of goods where customs legislation has not been complied with. In such cases, situations may arise where an undertaking other than the owner of the goods is liable to pay the import VAT to the Customs and that neither that undertaking nor the company which owns the goods is entitled to deduct the VAT. Import VAT thus becomes a cost. In order to determine whether there is a possible and appropriate solution to help these companies, a large number of assessments and balances are required. Firstly, it must be examined whether the issue is best dealt with in the context of customs legislation or VAT legislation. In the request, there is only one proposal for a change in VAT rules. If a solution is sought on the customs side, it needs to be ensured that the solution complies with the EU Customs Code. Similarly, a solution in the field of VAT needs to be compatible with the EU VAT Directive. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that this effect affects those who have not complied with customs legislation when, for example, an import or handling of goods in a customs warehouse. It must therefore be ensured that a solution that helps wrongdoers by mistake does not at the same time open up tax fraud to those who deliberately do not comply with customs legislation and, for example, try to smuggle goods into Sweden. In conclusion, the issue is therefore much more complex than it might seem at first sight, and any changes to the regulatory framework need to be carefully examined. I also note that the question of VAT costs arising from errors in customs handling has already been raised in the past, through a request from the Transport Industry Association. In Prop. 2013/ 14:6 the then bourgeois government judged that it was not possible to change the legislation in the manner proposed by the League. The government was then unable to find any other solution to this problem that was compatible with the VAT Directive. Against this background, it is currently not possible for me to respond to when the results of this preparation can be presented or when a possible amendment to the legislation can enter into force.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Sweden is a country built by entrepreneurship. It is entrepreneurship that has created jobs, it is jobs that have created tax revenues, and that is what has led to us being a country of high prosperity. Madam President, I would like There are things that allow companies to engage in other things than product development, selling, visiting customers or whatever they are about to do, and this is one of those things. It may sound a bit dry and boring with import VAT. The basis for this interpellation was a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet in the middle of February– even from the Swedish Tax Agency, they wrote an article– which stated that both the Swedish Tax Agency, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Entrepreneurs and a large number of other organisations agree that there are totally unreasonable consequences when a company is simply denied import VAT. According to the Swedish VAT law, the importer of goods from outside the EU is obliged to pay import VAT. Normally, the owner of the goods is considered to be an importer and can usually deduct the VAT in the company. The right to deduct ensures neutrality and fair competition between undertakings. But there are situations when there is a completely unreasonable interpretation on the part of the Tax Agency. In the event of the slightest error or error of import, there are major distortions of competition that are directly detrimental to Sweden's international trade as the company loses its right to deduct the import VAT. As a result, the cost of the company increases by 25%. It can be as simple as not having checked a box correctly, that two different consignment numbers have been mixed together or that something very small error has occurred. The Swedish Tax Agency and business organisations fully agree that this should be changed. I do not really know the answer from the Minister for Finance if she shares the opinion of the Tax Agency and business organisations that this is a problem or not, but I make a positive interpretation and think that the Minister for Finance agrees with me that the problem needs to be addressed. That is, of course, welcome. The complexity of the issue has been explained by the Minister of Finance. However, I note that in other EU countries – Denmark, Germany, France and the Netherlands – corresponding rules are interpreted to avoid additional costs. If it is possible to do so in other countries, one must of course be able to do so in Sweden. I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Finance: what kind of preparatory work is going on, and when will this issue be resolved?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-102	Madam President, I would like It is not intended to make the import VAT a cost. Therefore, it is very good to try to find a solution. However, as I tried to explain, it is not easy to find a solution. The problem is that VAT legislation and customs legislation are slightly in conflict, and both are EU-led. It makes it harder. The second part is also that it is important to ensure, when making a solution, that it does not open up new ways of cheating. Of course, it is not good for all the companies that are doing the right thing, which is almost all companies. After all, we do not want them to be out-competed by companies that are not doing the right thing. Against this background, we look at the issue and continue to prepare it. That it is not quite simple, I can say that I am not the only politician in Sweden who thinks, but my predecessor, who also looked at such a question, concluded that it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. I will not give up on this, but I will continue to work at the Ministry of Finance to see if we can find a solution that does not open up to cheating so that serious companies are at risk of being out of competition.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-104	Madam President, I would like I am personally convinced that neither the Swedish Tax Agency, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Entrepreneurs nor others want companies to be outcompeted because of cheating. I am absolutely convinced that they want serious competition between companies. But it is also important that Swedish companies have serious competition against companies in other countries, and if Denmark, Germany, France and the Netherlands have been able to find solutions to this, it should be perfectly possible to do so in Sweden as well. The fact that this issue has become a little more acute is due to the fact that the UK, one of our main trading partners, has been treated as a third country since 1 January. It risks increasing the problem. I myself have talked to companies that import things from the UK, and there has been more or less chaos when it comes to customs handling and other things. Goods are simply stuck in Britain on their way out of the country. This has also been reported in the media. It is good that the Minister for Finance agrees with me that this problem needs to be addressed. It also seems to us that we agree that missing a box or the like would have completely unreasonable consequences. Then you can suffer what can actually be called a penalty tax of 25 percent. What worries me is that the Finance Minister says it is a complicated issue that other governments have not solved. It's kind of no consolation. When does the Minister of Finance estimate that this issue will have been given an acceptable solution which means that Swedish companies do not risk getting VAT locked up? It is an unnecessary barrier to trade that must be removed. Sweden is a small, export- and import-dependent country far up in northern Europe which, of course, should have reasonable conditions of competition. When does the Minister of Finance estimate that this issue has been resolved?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-110	Madam President, I would like I understand that Lars Beckman of the Moderates is not satisfied that the Moderates failed to resolve this issue when they were in government. I am not satisfied with the moderate failure either, but we will continue to work on this issue. However, it may be that what applies in other countries may be because their internal VAT legislation is different from what the Swedish one does. So there may be explanations that things look different in other countries and that it is the difference that makes the Moderates previously unable to find a solution to this issue. Having said that, I can tell you that there is a preparation at the Government Office. When it's finished, I can't answer. This is because the issue is complex, because customs and VAT legislation clashes a little with each other and both are governed from Brussels, of course supplemented by domestic rules. At present, I am afraid to answer exactly when the preparation may be completed.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-113	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance uses the same point of speech that each minister uses in any interpellation debate, namely that it is the Moderates' fault that the government does not solve social problems. Perhaps it would be better for voters to vote for a moderate government so that we can solve social problems rather than talk about them. I understand that the question is complex. We're gonna stop cheating. However, I can note that both the Swedish Tax Agency and business organisations have proposed solutions. One proposal that is written about in the debate article in Svenska Dagbladet and that has been written to the government is that the government should ensure that the rules are interpreted in the same way as in competing EU countries. And then there are concrete proposals through additions to the VAT Act that could eliminate the unfair interpretation of the rules by Sweden. This is an important competition issue. I understand that the Minister of Finance is not going to answer the question of when this will be resolved. It is also a signal to be expected: during this term of office, the Minister of Finance will do nothing about this. I find that unfortunate. I have noticed that the Minister of Economic Affairs has travelled country and country around together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Entrepreneurs to find examples of regulatory simplifications. There has even been some objective of reducing the rules. But when we come to the concrete issues, which are actually about regulatory simplification and which would create competition on equal terms, the Minister for Finance says that these are difficult issues that the Minister for Finance does not see any solution to. Perhaps it would be better for the Minister for Economic Affairs to book a cup of coffee with the Minister for Finance and try to sort out the issues on the table, because this issue is important for Sweden's competitiveness, and it is important for Swedish business. I very much hope that we can find a solution, because we still seem to agree that this is a problem.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-117	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman believes that if you made the proposed change, there will be competition on equal terms. Here, of course, you need to take a closer look at what is proposed, and my concern is that you have to be careful when making changes like this so that there is no competition on very different conditions in that you risk that companies that cheat will benefit from any regulatory changes. Against this background, it is important to keep track of what you are doing. Having said that, I understand that it is extremely frustrating for a company that has accidentally committed a minor offence to be hit in this way. It is, of course, very frustrating for that company, and it is also against that background that we are looking at what opportunities there are for making changes that at the same time ensure fair competition. On the other hand, if voters vote for a moderate-led government, it will obviously not solve the problem because the Moderates for eight years failed to do so in a government position. On the contrary, it was said that it was not possible to come up with this solution.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-120	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I intend to introduce a new tax, or increase it, on electricity or electric products. Society as a whole must contribute to increased energy efficiency. The existing energy tax on electricity consumption already means that products that use relatively much electricity are more expensive to operate. The Government also works with a number of measures to accelerate both electrification and energy efficiency. According to the January agreement, a strong green tax shift will be implemented with increased environmental taxes being exchanged for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. What taxes will be covered in the future or how such an increase in environmental taxes will be designed will the government return to. However, there is no work going on within the Government Office with a new tax on products that generate a lot of electricity.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-123	Madam President, I would like The Swedish people will be confused when they listen to Magdalena Andersson and the government representatives. It's a little hard to understand what the government wants to achieve. A lot of things seem to happen mostly by themselves because one does not pursue a functioning reform policy. For example, Magdalena Andersson's conclusion is that Sweden is the country where unemployment has increased most throughout the EU since 2014. We no longer have the highest employment rate, and we have the third lowest growth per person throughout the European Union during the same period. Much has gone badly in Sweden with Magdalena Andersson's politics. But one thing that many people wonder about is: how is it connected that, firstly, you run a policy where as much as possible should be electrified – some ordinary petrol or diesel cars should not be left – secondly, you shut down nuclear power, and thirdly, government representatives who talk about introducing new taxes on everything that goes on electricity? This combination is very difficult to keep up with. Let's take it one more time, Magdalena Andersson! First, you run a policy of everything, or as much as possible, being driven by electricity. Then electricity production is shut down. And then you introduce – or want to introduce, talk about introducing or giving messages in different ways that you should probably have – a tax on products that go on electricity. How can this promote a country like Sweden? How can it be a good signal to send to companies, entrepreneurs and households to first say that they should switch to electricity and then say that as soon as we get the chance we should probably tax this as much as possible? What are the conditions for starting and running companies that produce electric products in Sweden when you send signals that you should tax them as much as possible and as soon as possible – perhaps not right now but soon? What is the signal to households who are thinking about what to buy and invest in when they hear this from government representatives? They say: Yes, it is good to buy things that go on electricity, but we will make sure that we tax them as hard as possible as soon as possible. The Minister for Finance's answer here does not give a clear answer, so we will have to believe that it is the Minister's statement that applies. The experience is not particularly positive, Madam President, of this government's tax policy. It is certainly some that are perhaps more by chance, or rather the effect of having the Social Democrats, who want to increase taxes as much as possible, the Center Party, who wants to have as complicated a tax system as possible with as many different types of deductions and exemptions as you can only think of, and the Green Party, who wants to experiment with as many new taxes as possible. This has led us in Sweden to find ourselves in a unique position; you can see that if you look out over the world. In the midst of a burning crisis, there have either been or have been proposals for increased vehicle tax, tax on business cars, tax on takeaways, taxes on clothing, tax on shoes, re-imposed property tax, various types of new taxes on entrepreneurship, owner taxes and bank taxes. We have received plastic bag taxes, and we have received chemical taxes, imposed by the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. And now we're also getting, or not getting, new taxes on electrical products. Magdalena Andersson owes a reply to Swedish companies and the Swedish people.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-133	Madam President, I would like The signal to the business community seems to be very clear if you look at what is happening in the business world. There is currently a green industrial revolution in Sweden, where companies after companies come with multi-billion-dollar investments in new, green technology. There are now sharp labour shortages in the northern part of Sweden due to all green investments taking place there. It is not just about business, where there is a lot of investment in production itself. We also have large investments in solar cells and wind power in Sweden. Here is a big change, where Sweden is at the forefront. It already creates many jobs, and it will create even more jobs in the future. As I said in the interpellation response, there is no work going on within the Government Office with a new tax on products that draw a lot of electricity. I can repeat that again, if Niklas Wykman wishes, in the next speech.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-136	Madam President, I would like There is no work going on within the Government Office. All right, but each of us reads what is in the newspapers, and there the members of the government express a clear view that there should be a tax on different types of electrical products. This sends a signal to those who want to work out this type of product and to those who want to buy that type of product. But Magdalena Andersson gives a reassuring message: There is no work going on within the Government Office. All right, but the ministers are obviously working hard for it, at least to form opinion for it through the Swedish media. It's still sending a pretty clear signal, isn't it? Can Magdalena Andersson explain the position of the government? How do these three things fit together? First of all, make sure that everything goes on electricity – absolutely nothing can go on petrol and diesel! Secondly, shut down Swedish nuclear power! Thirdly, tax everything that goes on electricity as much as possible and as often as possible! How does that policy go together? How can it be a logical and good way to manage a country or communicate with its citizens? Magdalena Andersson talks about a green revolution. Sweden thus has the fastest growing unemployment in the European Union. We have the third lowest growth rate in the European Union. We have the fifth highest unemployment rate. If it's a green revolution, we'll pick up on the green revolution. It is not sought after by the Swedish people. We do not want the fastest growing unemployment. We do not want Europe's third lowest growth. We do not want the EU's fifth highest unemployment rate. We want a Sweden with full employment and high economic growth, so that we can get high wages, good pensions and a well-funded welfare. But, Madam President, it is not possible when you have the fastest growing unemployment, when you have the third lowest growth and when you have the fifth highest unemployment so far. It is possible that the Green Party has seriously convinced Magdalena Andersson that it is a green revolution, but it is not. It is a destruction of what we once felt as one of the world's greatest and best industrial nations. Now the government representative is sending another signal like this: the future, well, it is probably not entirely welcome. At least we should tax electrical products as hard as possible. This must be taken seriously, Madam President. What about the plastic bag tax and the chemical tax? The chemical tax will soon be charged on most things we shop in the store. It already applies to all electrical products. The Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate have evaluated it and said that it absolutely does not fulfil its purpose. And what do we really think about the plastic bag tax when it costs 30 – 40 SEK for a children's family who have forgotten the fabric bags, which are less good for the environment in most cases, at home and thus have to pay this tax? Or take everyone who now buys plastic bags on a roll instead and throw away the cardboard boxes in which they instead take home the food from the shops because they are untaxed. The tax is completely illogical, has no environmental benefit, costs households a lot and involves a lot of hassle for entrepreneurs. What is it like in the midst of a crisis to increase a vehicle tax and tax company cars harder? In the restaurant business, which is under pressure, new taxes on takeaway food are being threatened. In the retail trade, which is under pressure, there will be new taxes on clothes and shoes. Households, who are afraid of unemployment and where many are on sick leave, will receive a property tax. We have low growth, but more taxes are needed on entrepreneurship. We are to have increased ownership taxes, and we are to introduce a risk-taking tax in the form of a bank tax. However, there is no work going on with this particular electricity tax in the Government Office. Unfortunately, there is work going on in the Swedish media by the ministers instead. This should be stopped completely. Leave a clear message!
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-147	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman says that the Swedish people are working for the green industrial revolution. I can understand that if you look at it from a moderate perspective. During Niklas Wykman's working hours in the Government Office, the Prime Minister said: "The industry is basicly gone". This Prime Minister has a slightly different approach to that. It is also the case that the policy has produced results with the multi-billion-dollar investments that we are now seeing. It is possible that Niklas Wykman will not notice if he rarely leaves the Stockholm region, but if you go north you will notice the spirit of the future and confidence there is with all the investments that are now taking place and are underway and with the great labour shortage that you now see up there in the north. Looking at the Swedish labour market, one can also note that now, during the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War, the employment rate is higher than when the Moderates left the Government Office. That said, there is no work going on with the tax that led to this interpellation.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-151	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance accuses me of not leaving the Stockholm region and says I should go more north. I think the Swedish people can recall that the Minister of Finance has gone north. I have stayed in Stockholm, I would say, in accordance with the recommendations made by the Swedish Public Health Agency in recent times. Then I intend to continue to go to companies all over the country, and also to the mountains and other places. However, this question was not about travelling around Sweden. It was about what messages they send to the Swedish people and to Swedish companies by constantly threatening to introduce new taxes. There is no work going on in the Government Office. So it is an individual minister who has talked about us having these new taxes. Unfortunately, it probably does matter when individual ministers express themselves in this way. We can simply assume that Magdalena Andersson has here made a promise that there will be no tax on new electrical products. The risk is that the promise is about as strong as when Magdalena Andersson promised for the 2014 elections that there would be no dismantling of the Swedish surplus target. It was a quick dismantling of the Swedish surplus target. After that, the Minister of Finance has even said that it should be completely removed. Magdalena Andersson's track record when it comes to strong promises around the core of the economy is not very strong. Magdalena Andersson turns and twists the words. She says we're working for a green revolution. The green revolution described by Magdalena Andersson, what we could hear just now, was that we have the fastest growing unemployment in the whole of Europe, the third lowest growth in the European Union and the fifth highest unemployment in the European Union. If it is a green revolution, we do not want a green revolution. We in the Moderates want faith in the future and technology renewal. We want to meet the challenges we have with optimism, trust and science, not with new higher taxes on what is good for the environment.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-157	Madam President, I would like The new fad of the Moderates for people not to work feels a little strange – this constant desire to become more like other European countries, where the fewer people work than in Sweden. If Sweden were to be an average European country, it would be up to half a million fewer people who went to work every day. That's not where I'm going, on the contrary. I want to build on what we see in Sweden now: higher employment rates than in 2014 when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, but also even more people who are looking for jobs in the labour market. They are the ones who will now be supported so that they also come to work – very much in the north of Sweden, where we now see how companies after companies are planning multi-billion-dollar investments that will create jobs and new export success for Swedish industry and industry. That is where the future lies, and that is what the government has consistently steered towards since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. We have given clear signals that it is the climate change and the green industries that are the future. It has produced results. It's a job. It gives faith in the future. That's the way we're going to go.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-160	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me whether I intend in any way to change vehicle taxation for those who depend on the car in the profession, such as craftsmen. Boriana Åberg has asked me if there have been any impact descriptions of what the changed and reinforced bonus – the Malus system means for entrepreneurs who need light trucks in their work and how it affects people who have car support. Boriana Åberg has also asked me whether I think it is reasonable for Swedish taxpayers to bear the costs of the climate change transition in Norway and, if not, what measures I intend to take. The climate crisis is the destiny of our time. If Sweden is to reach the climate targets, it is crucial that greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector are reduced. Bonus – the Malus system contributes to this by charging higher taxes on new light-duty vehicles with higher emissions and giving bonuses to more environmentally friendly vehicles. The aim is for the system to steer towards a higher proportion of environmentally friendly vehicles in new car sales. The share of rechargeable cars in new car sales is increasing, which is positive for the conversion of the fleet of vehicles but also an indication that technological developments are progressing and that rechargeable vehicles are becoming more competitive. Although technological developments have not reached the same level for light vans as for passenger cars, the Government considers it important to work together to steer the purchase of light vehicles into cleaner alternatives. In order to discourage exports from Sweden of subsidised environmental cars, the Ministry of the Environment has referred a proposal for the repayment of the climate bonus if the car is exported within five years. The referral period expired on 23 November last year, and work is under way within the Government Office to analyse referrals. In order to promote participation in society for adults and children with disabilities, car support is a significant benefit. On 1 October last year, new provisions came into force on the basis of the Government's proposal for improved car support opportunities. The amended rules aim, inter alia, to increase the effectiveness of the aid. In this context, the level of additional car subsidy payments was also increased in order to increase compensation for car purchase costs. I would also like to emphasise that the Government is continuously and closely following developments regarding the possibility for disabled people and their relatives to take part in the car subsidy and environmental management within the bonus – the Malus system.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-166	Madam President, I would like Bonus – malus are taxes that change owners, you might say. There will be a bonus for environmentally friendly cars and malus to tax those cars that are not considered to be environmentally friendly. The work line needs to be developed and not become further complicated. Bonus – malus is a counterproductive agent. There'll be a tax on work, and people will get caught up in it. That is a bad rural policy. This affects people who do not have alternatives; we do not have subways throughout our country. Crafters, for example, need to have load capacity on their important work vehicles. These vehicles, weighing 3.5 tonnes, are compared with small passenger cars. In southern Sweden it can be seen that this has affected competition. We have craftsmen who drive foreign-registered cars. These are cars from Poland, Germany and Denmark. Light trucks, under 3.5 tonnes, do not have tachographs, and it is therefore not possible to see whether they carry out illegal cabotage operations. There are no alternatives for craftsmen. Their electric car would cost about 50 percent more than another car, which does not run on electricity. The charging infrastructure is also not expanded – if a craftsman buys an electric car, there are no charging poles to charge it. In addition, it becomes more expensive in purchases. A few years ago I heard at an infrastructure seminar from Gothenburg in Västra Götaland that the number of charging poles had increased by 100 percent, Madam President – from one to two poles. I had a previous debate with the Minister of Finance on bonuses – malus. It was about families with disabled children who need space for two per-mobiles in their vehicle. Then the Minister of Finance told me that families won't have to malus if they buy a smaller car. But this is not an option for these families – no more than it is an option for craftsmen. It'll be a competitive disadvantage. We need to stand up for Swedish companies. We need to stand up for work. We need to strengthen the work line, not erode it. I lacked an answer to my question in the Minister for Finance's written reply, so I ask the question: Does the Minister of Finance intend to change the taxation of vehicles for those who depend on the car in the profession of a craftsman?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-172	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. I did not feel that the Minister replied to my question whether there has been an impact assessment of the decision to impose higher taxes on work tools, as the light trucks are. Since the Minister chose not to answer this question, I assume that an impact statement has not been made – the Minister will be happy to correct me if this is not true. Instead, the minister spoke in his answer about the environmental benefits. But there is no environmental benefit with the bonus proposal – malus. Both the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development have independently judged bonus – the Malus system as expensive and ineffective, but instead of scrapping this system, the government chose to strengthen it. The Minister acknowledged in his reply that technological developments in light vans have not reached that level. Yet the government chose to reinforce the bonus – the Malus system also for light trucks, although the market offers very few vehicles that can be used as work tools by craftsmen and at the same time can receive bonuses. You could say that the government suffers a bit from the Marie-Antoinette syndrome. Is Malus too expensive? Let them drive electric cars instead! But electric cars, as you know, require charging possibilities, and it is not obvious that a craftsman who has to drive in different places can adapt the use of the car to the range that the car has. The charging also takes a very long time; the technology is not developed. We also know that electricity is a scarce commodity in today's Sweden, both in terms of power and in terms of capacity. The energy policy pursued, with nuclear reactors being shut down and the import of dirty coal power from abroad, brings to ruin both entrepreneurship and the whole of Sweden. I also asked a question about the people who depend on the car to be able to move. For them, there is no alternative – there are not enough large cars. One could say that bonus – the Malus system is de facto also a tax on disability, and that cannot be the case in a welfare country. The entire Tax Committee received emails from people who were distressed that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency had not been able to handle their applications for support on time. They risked buying vehicles after 1 April and being subject to much higher tax than they expected or could afford. The Minister is welcome to address them and tell them what to do.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-180	Madam President, I would like With regard to the penalty tax on motorism, there are, as we have described, two winners. It is foreign craftsmen, who pour into southern Sweden and get a competitive advantage. And it is Norwegian car buyers, who get cars subsidised by Swedish taxpayers. Madam President, I would like I would like to touch on what Boriana Åberg has to say: the consequences of penal taxation on Sweden's disabled people who are in need of a car. Unfortunately, there is a need to put the taxation of penalties on the part of people with disabilities in their context. For those who are interested in knowing what government policy means in practice, I recommend going into rbu.se, the National Association for Disabled Children and Young People. They've made a terrible 16-point list. I now add the 17th point of bonus – malus. On the website they list 16 points of how this government has consistently cut down and worsened those who need the support of society most. RBU writes on its website: 中 personal assistance has collapsed since 2015 中 grant of activity compensation has collapsed More and more people are losing their contact person 中 municipalities deliberately reject applications in order to push questions to the administrative court 中 resources for schools to provide support are being reduced
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-189	The emergency stop for re-evaluations of personal assistance does not work as intended 中 significantly more difficult to obtain parking permits 中 LSS housing, own apartment with assistance is an operation that is rarely granted
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-194	中 resource schools are closed, very few new start-ups
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-197	中 the housing allowance has collapsed. I get emails from all over Sweden from desperate older people who have worked their whole lives and paid taxes all their lives and who are now going to get a permobil printed out. But they can't, because they don't get a mobile wheelchair garage. Madam President, I would like In addition, the Social Democratic Minister of Finance has introduced a penalty tax on the families who need to get two wheelchairs into a minibus. I understand that most people do not know how the system works. You can thus get 40 000 SEK in purchase grants. But for that minivan, you have to pay a fine of $120,000. You can thus get 40 000 in purchase grants, but you have to pay 120 000 SEK. Madam President, I would like I think most people understand that this is completely unreasonable. When I debated the issue with the Minister of Finance a few months ago, she said that perhaps there are better ways of supporting disabled people, that perhaps it is the regulatory framework that needs to be changed. It has now been a long time since the last debate on the penalty tax on disabled people and their mobility. There are probably many who wonder what measures the Minister of Finance has taken. What improvements are there for Sweden's functional impairment in the spring change budget that was recently presented? Or is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the 16 points on the RBU shame list? It's a shame list. The same government is talking about introducing a family week, which would cost 30 billion, for families with healthy children. It's not decent. The answer given by the Minister for Finance and another government minister is that you can buy a smaller car. It's completely devoid of reality. You don't get two per-mobiles in a Golf. You have to have a minivan. I would like to ask the same question as my colleague Boriana Åberg. What is the answer to the families who need these cars?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-205	Madam President, I would like I am entering the debate because I am interested in vehicles and traffic. It's something I've devoted almost my entire adult life to. I have to say that this bonus – the Malus tax is probably one of the most backward things you can find if you have the focus on getting a better environment. Sofia talked about this with foreign actors who come into Sweden and do work. It is an absolute consequence of this system. There are examples, as reported by the police, that it has gone so far as to even weigh down heavier vehicles, which are 6 or 7 tonnes in total, to 3.5 tonnes. Then you fly under the radar when it comes to driving and resting times. It has had the consequence that Swedish companies are being competed because they have to pay high taxes while other operators flying under the radar come in and do not pay a crown. I don't really understand how this is supposed to work. Let me give you an example. A furniture dealer called me and told me that they had an old van that they drove out furniture to customers with. Now they were going to buy a new car. But then the tax would increase by 90 000 SEK over a three - year period. 90 000 kronor it would cost a furniture dealer in Lidköping to drive out furniture. If that car rolls 2,000 miles a year... but I don't think it does... they'll have to raise 17 crowns and 50 øre a mile just to cover the tax bill. Of course, they chose to keep the old car, which they could repair for the 90 000 crowns for quite a long time. It becomes the opposite effect when you keep old dirty cars instead of buying new ones. For those who are furniture dealers, carpenters plumbers, electricians or whatever it may be, there is no bonus system available. It'll just be Malus. If you have a delivery car that rolls 6,000 miles [6,000 km] a year, you have to have about 6 kroner per mile just to cover the tax cost. If you take out the 35 000 SEK that the cars will cost in annual tax, you have to have 3 000 SEK a month just to cover the tax cost. And then you haven't even put the key in the ignition lock. Everyone understands that this puts small entrepreneurs in an almost hopeless situation. At the same time, it pours in cars from abroad and takes the jobs instead. Then we won nothing. It's more like a loss to the state. I can give the government a tip. An easy way to recognize those 3.5-tonne vehicles that come from outside is that they have a cap on the roof. There is a small structure on the cab where the driver is located the short while he is able to sleep. They also fly under radar when it comes to driving and rest times. It is therefore not just a question of illegal competition in terms of the way in which the activities are carried out. It is also a question of people being exploited to the grossest and driving around the clock. A tip to the Government is: Look out on the roads to recognize those in the vehicles of 3.5 tons that take the jobs from the Swedish craftsmen!
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-212	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren pointed out that the metro does not exist throughout the country. That is quite correct. It's only in the Stockholm region. But also craftsmen in Stockholm often have their own car and travel quite rarely by subway. As a craftsman, you often have to bring some stuff with you. The purpose of the bonus – the Malus system is to direct the purchase of new cars to more climate- and environmentally friendly alternatives. The background is that in order to become a net zero emitter and be able to reduce the emissions of the transport sector, we need to redirect the vehicle fleet to more of it on either environmentally friendly fuels or on electricity. The purpose of bonus – malus is to steer there. What Boriana Åberg says is absolutely correct; the Institute of Economics believes that bonus – malus is not very effective. But what the Institute proposes that the government should do instead is to introduce a substantial increase in the CO2 tax. They say that's more effective. From their point of view, the Moderates' climate policy is therefore even more inefficient, as they want to reduce the tax that is most effective according to the Konjunkturinstitutet. What are the impact assessments that have been carried out? Of course, we do the usual impact assessments. First, there is a study which makes proposals and which will carry out impact assessments of its proposals. The proposal will then be sent to you for a referral. Then it is possible for those to whom the referral is sent but also for so-called spontaneous referrals to submit impact assessments. It is therefore free for anyone to submit impact assessments. After that, the government will take a stand. Exports of bonus cars are problematic, and it was also at the time when there was a direct environmental bonus paid by all taxpayers. Bonus – Malus has a great advantage compared to the Alliance bonus system, where the assistant nurse was allowed to contribute to those who had the opportunity to buy brand new cars. Now the bonus is paid by those who buy cars that release more. However, there is a similar risk of exports. That's why the Ministry of the Environment has referred a memo, and now we're preparing the referrals that have come in. There have been some criticisms in the referrals, and we need to look at this so that it is done well.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-218	Madam President, I would like Mr Boriana called this Marie-Antoinette-politik-Antoinette policy. It's a great time. If there's no bread, why don't they eat pastries? It's the same thing here, isn't there a car? Buy an electric car! But this isn't working. It's not an option for the craftsman. It prevents ordinary people from buying a camper. This will be the consequence if you have to pay 90 000 or perhaps even 100 000 extra for a car that you need at work or have planned to holiday in Sweden. We have thought that the latter is an important part in that it benefits the visiting industry in Sweden in various ways and that we spend money in our country instead of the alternative of travelling to Thailand, which is not considered to be good in terms of flights. In my last speech, I mentioned that this harms the craftsman. It also damages the sale of these cars and, for example, motor homes. It also damages the salesman who sells horse cars, which I intend to mention in this speech. For the horse people, the B-shorter has become a good alternative. The load capacity of the vehicle is needed, and it weighs 3.5 tonnes. With a little will, you can get two horses into it. Every kilo is incredibly important when it comes to load capacity. However, the seller must be able to justify a purchase despite the existence of the Malus part. You go to pay a high tax – perhaps between 60 000 and 100 000 in three years, which is then phased out. The same salesman sells bigger trucks and compares them to the 3.5 tonne. The larger truck drives as little or as much as the 3, 5 tonne. There is no difference in mileage. On the other hand, emissions from the 3.5 tonne are to be taxed in criminal terms and are to be put at a disadvantage. However, for a truck weighing 16, 18 or over 20 tonnes, there is no malus. That is not to say that there should be any malus for such a truck. Punishment of a small 3.5 tonne is somewhat presumptuous. This is why Boriana Åberg's name Marie-Antoinette-politik-Antoinette policy fits incredibly well. I heard a colleague say that Sweden is a country in crisis. Tax shocks are proposed and implemented in most cases. We have increased taxes on vehicles, company cars, electricity, takeaways, clothes, shoes, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. As a cream on the cake, a reintroduction of the property tax is being prepared. This is politics that puts the country off course, actually completely wrong course. Probably the steering oar has gone off along the route. Madam President, I would like The Minister mentions that bonus – Malus has received severe criticism. I wonder if she has taken it to heart and is prepared, like the Moderates, to throw bonuses – malus in the trash.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-225	Madam President, I would like In their environmental policy, the Moderates want above all to provide Sweden with reliable, safe and environmentally friendly electricity by investing in nuclear power. We Moderates also believe that the bonus – the malus system should be scrapped like an old car that does not work and that only contributes to increased emissions. Bonus – the Malus system prevents people who for some reason cannot buy an electric car from buying a more environmentally friendly diesel or petrol driven car. This makes the Swedish car park increasingly older and less environmentally friendly than it could be. Already the average age of the Swedish car park is ten years. It is extremely high for a developed country. Therefore, any proposal that prevents people from switching to more environmentally friendly cars, whether they are fuelled by petrol, diesel or electricity, is harmful. It is positive that the government has withdrawn the proposal on the bonus system. It was wrong in every way. The proposal was legally insecure. The introduction of a repayment obligation for the first owner, whether he or she has exported the car, should not be possible under the rule of law. In addition, the proposal, as it was designed, made it possible to manipulate the system and place a goaltender who could then export the car without getting any recovery. I hope that this money cut to our neighbours will be stopped. According to State Traffic Analysis, 400 million of the bonus money paid by the state in 2019 ended up in other countries. There is another problem with the bonus – the Malus system that we have not yet addressed, namely that systems are not self-financed, which was the idea. The system went down with 674 million in two years. The Green Party only opened in March to new increases in the Malus section. When the report on a reinforced and simplified bonus – the Malus system was debated in this House, the Center Party expressed that their aim is to raise the bonus to SEK 100 000. This means even greater spending on the public purse and an even more unclear environmental benefit. I wonder whether the Minister for Finance would like to comment on this. Have you planned any increase in the bonus according to the wishes of the Center Party, or is this just fiction? What does the Minister of Finance think of the proposal?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-231	Madam President, I would like Only those who have lost the compass would accept the list of 16 cuts that the government has made since 2015, which RBU has reported on the website rbu.se. I think everyone should go in and read that list of impairments for people with disabilities. The 17th point does not exist, but the RBU should add: punitive tax on cars for those who depend on wheelchairs. I note that the Minister of Finance did not comment with a comma or a letter on how she believes that the economy should go together for the family of children who live in Gävle and who have two children dependent on permobil. There's only one option, and it's a minivan. You cannot get two permobils into a Golf, a Volvo or any other passenger car, but what remains is a minivan. The support that this family of two children, who, for example, lives in Sätra, can receive is 40,000 in the purchase allowance. But the direct confiscative penalty for this family of children is $12,000. It goes without saying that this severely restricts the possibilities for Sweden's disabled people who depend on cars to be able to invest in one. Like Boriana Åberg, I have received desperate emails from families with children in Sweden who have missed their ordered car before this date. They get a terrible penalty tax from this Minister of Finance and the government. How are they gonna do?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-234	Madam President, I would like There's been a lot of discussion about this bonus-malus thing. I have done this illustration earlier from the speaker's chair: It is kind of like an orienteer who is out in the woods and has got a map but no compass. He has no idea where he's going. The government's environmental policy can be compared to this. You don't have a clear goal for how to do it. You guess the most. That's what I'm getting. As far as these craft cars, delivery cars and cars for the disabled are concerned, this has gone completely wrong. There's no alternative. You get a penalty tax. There's no way to choose anything else. There is a haulage company that has tried this with alternative solutions. Then there are gas cars. That might sound good. But the thing is that the fuel system itself in the car is so heavy that you lose between 30 and 60 percent in load capacity. So what's the effect? Well, then you have to drive several times to transport the same amount of goods, and then the whole ecopoint is gone. In fact, one can demand from the government that it think a little bit about how to achieve the goal of reducing emissions and find a clear target instead of sitting and throwing dice, which is almost what one can liken the government's environmental policy to. Just take one such thing as 40 percent of cars are older than 11 years! If we reduce the age of the car fleet and bring it down to eleven years on those over, emissions will be reduced by 404,000 tonnes per year. This corresponds largely to the entire domestic flight in 2017. It's simple, fast and efficient.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-237	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren now begins again, as Moderates do when we approach elections, talking about property tax. I would just like to point out that I have been the finance minister or economic-political spokesperson for the Social Democrats for nine years and that, over all those years, there have been local parts of the Social Democrats who wanted to reintroduce property tax. The Moderates have threatened, in the face of every election, that we Social Democrats should reintroduce property tax. However, this has not been done. I beg for further scare propaganda of that kind from the Moderates. It has been unfounded for the past nine years, and it is equally unfounded today. Boriana Åberg wonders if we are prepared to look over changes in bonus – malus. We have done so on several occasions. I am, of course, prepared to constantly review changes in the bonus– malus for the system to govern in a good way. I really appreciate Lars Beckman's commitment to families with children with disabilities. On the other hand, to stand in this Chamber and reject RBU's work by saying that they are doing wrong when they do not have a 17th point on bonus– malus may not taste quite as good in their mouths. I would also like to point out that the government has increased car support. Thomas Morell says there is no alternative. It is clear that there are craftsmen who find it very difficult to find alternatives that are more environmentally friendly than a more traditional craft car. But there are also many craftsmen – I'm not saying all – for whom there may still be an alternative with an electric car, if you don't need quite as heavy load. Of course, you have to be somewhere where there is access to charging infrastructure. It is important that we continue to expand the charging infrastructure, so that it is available throughout the country. As pointed out, light electric trucks are more expensive in purchases, but they are often cheaper in operation. So, of course, how that calculation looks also depends on how much you drive.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-241	Madam President, I would like Stefan Löfven said at the election: U thought me on the job! The target was that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Now S policy has put Sweden in the corner of shame with the highest unemployment rate in the EU together with countries such as Greece. Since 2014, we have the fifth highest unemployment rate in the EU and the third worst growth in the EU. We need to strengthen the work line. As a former rider, I have seen how hauliers have gradually been knocked out of the market. Perhaps that is precisely why I now find it difficult to accept bonuses – malus, when I see the negative consequences it has for the working life. I also see it from an environmental perspective – we get older cars on our roads. People are reluctant to buy new vehicles with the latest technology regarding the environment and safety. My colleague Boriana Åberg mentioned that the system has gone back 649 million in two years and that the Center wants to raise the bonus further. A policy of broken oars steers Sweden in the wrong direction. Then my concern, Madam President, is this government going to further strengthen the bonus-malus or completely scrap it in view of the harsh criticism it has received?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-244	Madam President, I would like The Minister mentioned the property tax. Just as the reintroduction of property tax frightens the Conservatives, Social Democrats' cooperation with the Green Party frightens the Social Democratic voters themselves. I wonder why the treatment of the bonus proposal – the Malus system has been allocated to two departments, so that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the Malus part and the Ministry of the Environment for the bonus part? For those of us who are outsiders and lack transparency in the Government Office, it feels rather strange and actually unserious. For those of us who have looked at the Green Party's proposals and moves, it is no surprise that they are forced to refer back a proposal that has come from them, in this case about bonuses, when you have all the negative answers. Nor should it have been a surprise to the Minister of Finance. I wonder: Why is the Minister for Finance, who is responsible for Sweden's finances, guided on this issue by an anti-development party with 4 percent support and with activist elements?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-248	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, the government makes decisions jointly by consensus. All decisions prior to government decisions are prepared jointly in the Government Office, and everyone has the opportunity to comment. This means that we agree on the decisions that the government makes and supports them jointly. Nor is it the case that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the payment of all forms of payments made from the State budget. In substance, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for tax matters. Therefore, it is natural that the Malus part is located at the Ministry of Finance. Payments of different aid are usually made through the Departments. Then it's natural that it's at the Department of the Environment. On the other hand, we, of course, have a joint responsibility on the part of the government for the whole. That's how you work in the Government Office. The origin of our bonus – the Malus system is that we are in the midst of the climate crisis. Right now, the entire Government Office is working very intensively on the measures of historic size that the government has taken to deal with the ongoing pandemic crisis. At the same time, however, there is an underlying climate crisis. It's about Sweden changing the way we become climate-smarter. We're gonna do our part to save the climate. It is also because this is where the jobs of the future are. A green Sweden is also a Sweden that will work and create the jobs of the future. That is how we will strengthen the work line in the future.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-252	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has asked me what measures I have taken to ensure that all the municipalities in the country receive district police. She has also asked whether I and the government are prepared to set a target for the number of district police officers in all the municipalities of the country. Let me begin by emphasising that I and the government will continue the intensive work on combating crime throughout the country. Success requires, among other things, an accessible police officer, a strong judicial system and effective legislation. The expansion of the Police Authority is a central part of the work, and the government is making a historic effort on the agency. We have now passed halfway to the target of 10,000 more police officers by 2024. District police officers play an important role in building relationships with residents in an area. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. Therefore, we have, among other things, instructed the Police Authority in the regulation letter to account for the extent to which there are district police officers at the local police area level. We also want to know what is being done to enable them to work with contact-making, crime prevention and security-building work without being used for other activities. Increasing the number of police officers in the area in order to strengthen crime prevention and security-building is an important part of the political authority's long-term strategic work. Compared to 2019, the number of district police officers increased by 23 per cent in 2020 and was at the end of the year over 800 persons. This is a positive development, even though there is more to be done, including in terms of increasing the hours of rest. In order to meet the recommendations given by the National Audit Office to the Police Authority, several efforts are planned in the police regions to gradually strengthen the capacity of district police officers and achieve a long-term and clear police presence throughout the country. The police authority has a broad and important mission relating to the whole of crime prevention and law enforcement work and services to the public. An important principle for me is that they are the Police Authority that is best placed to determine how allocated resources are to be used and distributed in order for the agency to be able to live up to its commitments throughout the country. I continue to follow this issue closely and look forward to the Agency's report on developments in the field police.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-257	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my question. I was brought to the attention of the situation in the Stockholm region when the municipality of Lidingö did not want to sign a cooperation agreement due to a total lack of district police. Of course, that is something that is very worrying. The district police were an important part of the police reform that was carried out. In order to bring the police closer to the citizens, to make citizens' promises and to get a crime prevention activity worthy of the name, the district police are very important. I note that, in response to my interpellation, the Minister refers to the mandate that has existed in the letter of regulation. There are a few comments on that, Madam President. A local police area can be very large. This does not necessarily mean that there are district policemen in all municipalities. My point of departure and my question was that all municipalities should have district police who can function according to the mandate to be district police. It is about crime prevention and collaborative work and to participate in the local community with the visibility that it would entail. It is extremely important if we are to be able to manage to reduce recruitment to crime and to deal with the everyday crimes that many people experience create insecurity or other things that contribute to insecurity in our neighbourhoods. Of course, it's tricky. We can take the local police area that concerns Lidingö. It's local police area Norrmalm. These include the districts Östermalm, Norrmalm, Kungsholmen and Lidingö. It's a very large area. If you do not have a local connection, you do not get a good collaboration with the municipality, associations, the business community or the inhabitants of the municipality. It is therefore necessary to ensure that each municipality has district police. One is not enough, but one needs to increase the number. Madam President, I would like When I read the review report from the Swedish National Audit Office, I note that it is said that similar to what is said in the regulation letter referred to in the Minister's reply has also been given earlier. You've got answers. It is noted that the significant increase in the number of district police officers between 2018 and 2019 is explained by the fact that the Police Authority used a different method rather than an actual increase from one year to another. That is one of the challenges we face. If you change the method when you evaluate this, you will get answers that cannot be used to draw conclusions on what action needs to be taken. Madam President, I would like Another part of it is experiences that many people tell about. It's not clear what it is to be a district police officer. Now there are ambitions to make an education so that you can make it clear what it means. The image of what district police are must be given greater clarity and weight in police operations if you are to succeed in recruiting. Otherwise, you can't do recruitment. We have experience of the local police reform that existed at one time. It had similar problems. Let us not repeat those mistakes, but let us learn from it.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-266	Madam President, I would like Yes, Minister Mikael Damberg, I cannot resist this question, because it is close to my heart. The police have an extremely important role to play in our society. Of course, the police should be out fighting crime. It is an important part of their work. But it is also an important part of being preventive and creating security. People should feel safe in seeing a police car come riding in the area and seeing cops be out in the area moving and talking to people. It also creates concern for criminals. Police presence has a preventive effect. If there are policemen on the scene, the criminals will hesitate to commit crimes. We see a rather nasty development in our society. The last few days have been really creepy-- we're talking about the murder of women on the street and so on. It can't hang a cop on his sleeve on every criminal. Everyone realizes that. But there must still be a risk of detection for the person who commits a crime. There must be police officers in the vicinity who can make a difference when the criminals are on the move. As it is now, there is an enormous risk that the police will be around when someone commits a crime. Now the police in the metropolitan areas have better resources to go out, but the shootings and other things going on in the community are still emptying the stations on police patrols. Then it is free for others to commit other types of crime. This issue is important. I know that the Government will reply that a historic effort is being made on the police. And yes, I say nothing else, but it has mainly been about civilian workers to free up police resources in the field. Although the effort is large, it is too small to get to the crime we have in society. We need to get the criminals out of here. We need to limit their scope for action. The greatest poison we have in our society is the criminals. They take such a place and create concern for the ordinary, honest citizen. After all, the vast majority of people are law - abiding citizens of society. They must be able to live in peace and quiet and feel secure in that society stands there with police resources when needed. Then it must not be like in many smaller towns in the country, where it can take hours for a police patrol to arrive. Worst case scenario, it may be 24 hours before a police patrol arrives. It's untenable. Just as the interpellant said, an area can be an entire municipality. I have my roots in Vilhelmina, and that municipality is very large. You may need to go 150 km if you are going from the town to some small village. Of course there must be police resources there too. Even the citizens of society must feel secure that society can come and support in the event of crime.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for an important interpellation! I would like to start by saying that it is a correct analysis that we have too few district police in Sweden, and because we have too few district policemen there is too weak a local presence. The district police are defined by an approach that should be to connect, get to know and work preventively, not only against schools but also against traders, and they should be able to be a very close player to the municipalities as important actors at the local level. If we look at police growth we can see that all police regions grew last year, but if we look a little deeper at the figures we can see that police growth in Sweden has not really taken off, but it is now and in the future that it will. As Thomas Morell described, the first part of the growth has concerned civil servants. They are important for the investigative capacity, and they have gained some skills that they might not have had in the police department before. They are thus an important part of growth. But the second part of police growth now and in the future is basically police growth. We expect only this year across the country to employ 1,400 new police officers directly from police training. The focus of growth should be on district police. There are other areas that will also have to grow with the growing organisation, not least the traffic area, certain specialist functions and other things, so it is not just district policemen that are involved, but it is still an area that is clearly identified by the chief police officer. One of the aims of the police reform was, as Mr Lundgren has pointed out, to get closer to the citizens. So far, the police have refilled where it has been most necessary. When you do not have the full capacity in emergency operations, it is primarily there that the reinforcements end up. I therefore agree with the description of the problem. However, I may not go quite as far in the definition as Kerstin Lundgren does, and that is because I still think it is important that the Police Authority should own the distribution issue. Otherwise, it is easy for us to take over the responsibility for allocating the resources of the Political Authority, and I would rather not do so. However, Madam President, with regard to the regulation letter, we are not only very clear about the fact that the Police Authority must report district police – we are also clear that we must have district police officers who are protected for these efforts. It's been a little bit like that, too. There have been district policemen, but they have barely had time to work in that role. Now I will inform the Riksdag that the region that is currently perhaps the toughest with this is the Stockholm region. This is perhaps not the picture we otherwise have of police growth, but the region that is currently facing extra challenges in terms of police growth is precisely the Stockholm region. The Swedish Police Agency is working on this structured and purposefully, and it is also trying to move more training places to, for example, Södertörn to secure staffing and resource setting in the Stockholm region. I share the problem picture. I think we should steer towards this, and I think we should. It is on the verge that we may not be able to go much further. But I believe that we in this House still agree, as we were at the major police reform, that it is ultimately the Police Authority that will allocate the resources of the Police Authority.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-285	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your supplementary answer. Of course, it is a phase of construction that we are now going through. We have worked together to provide increased resources to achieve growth in the Police Authority. Of course, we also initially have an increased proportion of civilian employees, which is important for trained police to be able to do what trained police have specific competence for. There is an urgent need to emphasise that lessons are drawn from the problems of local police reform. When the police reform was carried out, the aim was to establish close contacts between the police and the surrounding society and that citizens could have confidence and security. It would be fundamental for understanding what society looks like, so that it could influence and prevent re-cruitment to crime, tackle petty crime and quickly reverse developments that are going in the wrong direction. There they failed in many ways. It was a lack of clarity, and perhaps there were too few to get enough strength at work. The experience was also that one was still snatched here, than there. That is part of what the Minister also mentions when the Minister mentions the district police and the protected time. If the district police grow to the name but not to the benefit of it, you will find disappointment both in the authority and in those you will interact with. The government promises that have been given, the citizens' promises that have been given and the cooperation agreements that exist will then be a residual item, so to speak, in the system because you are constantly being torn away. I note again how it was in the report from the Swedish National Audit Office. There was a picture from 2018 in the report. At the time, 79% thought they had a designated geographical area of responsibility, and 11% said that they could work protected to 70%. In 2019, 59 per cent of the district police had a geographically defined area. But it was very clear that many had to work with intervention activities and that they were taken away. Then they will not have the opportunity to be the present police. And it is, of course, the present police force that very many citizens are asking for and which I believe we are fighting together to try to achieve. I very much hope that the Minister is prepared to try to follow up on this, and not just give regulatory letters, in order to ensure that there will not be a district police just by name. If you do not see the district police because it is always in another place, the whole reform will fall.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Mikael Damberg! Protect, help, make things right-- that's the police's choice language. It says quite a lot about what police activity is all about. You're supposed to help. You're supposed to protect. And you should arrest those who commit crimes. I live in Skaraborg. When I worked in the traffic police there we had police stations in Tibro, Tidaholm, Hova, Töreboda and Vara. Today it is basically only Skövde, Falköping, Lidköping and Mariestad left. Then there is a little bit of police activity in a closet in Karlsborgs kommunhus. That's what there is. The patrols starting from the major stations in Lidköping, Skövde and Mariestad cross-country in Skaraborg. It doesn't make sense. And if something happens, it'll take time for the patrol to be in place. It was even a police officer who was severely beaten. He was a civilian. It took time for the patrol to be in place. That is the concern: When people are victims of crime, it takes time for help to come. The old police reform should be buried and preferably forgotten, but it must not be a new one. It must really be a police activity that is on the side of the citizen of society. A designated enemy is supposed to be the criminals. There's got to be focus on that. Then you have to strengthen police activity and make it clear in your organisation.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-294	Madam President, I would like I will start with a brief comment on Thomas Morell's previous speech, which I forgot to comment on. It is correct that we have too few police officers. We are on the subject of a very broad consensus. But we also see a new situation, as the chief of police says. We have about 1 000 more people in custody today than a couple of years ago. We also see that there are now a lot of gang trials around Sweden. What is new in this is that it is some leading figures in the criminal networks that are now on trial, which the police have had difficulty getting to. It's also a big numerary. In the Stockholm region, for example, the Regional Police Commissioner says that eight entire networks have been eliminated through strategic work. There are more left, and there are red conflicts. But the police are very offensive in their work now. It opens a window, as the chief of police has said. In this calmer situation, you can work more preventively, provided that there are police officers out there who are district police and municipal police and who build relationships and work long-term with this. What I really take with me from this debate is that there seems to be still a very broad consensus between the parliamentary parties about our expectations of the great effort we make at the Police Authority. We're not just going to have 10,000 more employees. It should also be noticed in Sweden that we have 10 000 more employees. A very important part is the district police, because there is much of the crime prevention and long-term work. I would argue that the chief of police is very clear in the dialogue with me, but also with his authority, that it is his ambition that the district police should grow. I believe that the police also have a self-interest in this. Lundgren was into it. The police will not be able to do all this work themselves. It is about the police having the time and resources to ensure that the municipalities know how to act together. It is a question of getting professionals involved in preventive work. It's about being able to work closer to young people to break recruitment. Then the police will have a simpler day-to-day life in the next line. There is therefore a self-interest in working in this way, locally and with good knowledge. However, if it is not enough, accounts are also required. Our expectations from the government are that the chief police officer will report: What about the district police? How much is protected? Is this being developed over time in the right direction in accordance with ambitions? I am bringing with me a great deal of agreement on this. I would also like to draw attention to what Kerstin Lundgren is discussing about following up. That's what I'm discussing at the department. When is it also a little bit more formal, not only through regulatory letters and recoveries, to follow up on the big investments we make at the Police Authority? It is not a question of saying that the efforts we are making are bad, but of ensuring that they are in line with the ambitions that both the Riksdag and the Head of the National Police have had to do with this. It's an ongoing discussion. We are not going to let go of the issue, for so far we are only at the beginning of the period of growth in terms of police resources in particular. We see that approximately 5 000 more police officers will be employed in the coming years, and that has to make a difference around Sweden.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-303	Madam President, I would like Yes, growth must make a difference. The police must be visible, close and have the local anchorage. Local anchoring is extremely important. The technical component and technological development are urgent. But it is also important to have local knowledge and knowledge if you are to be able to work preventively and build confidence that the police exist and can do your job. We can look at the growth in the Stockholm region. There was a picture of an increase from 7 000 to 9 000 employees in the police area to 2024. During that time, the district police would increase from 100 to 300. That would then be in the order of 3%, if it is 300 out of 9 000 employees. It's a picture you have reason to think about. Madam President, I would like When it comes to follow-up, I think you should consider whether you should also follow up on the clarity: what is an area police officer, and what expectations are there? What are the basic requirements? I see some people have assistant levels. Others have completely different requirements when they hire. I believe, Madam President, that it is urgent that the district police do not become something that is perceived as another project in the system. It is a purpose of the close police, which should be in our region, the Stockholm region, but also throughout the country.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for an important interpellation debate! I've only been strengthened in my own opinion. It is about how important it is to ask the Police Authority to report how it is done and to be even clearer with the closed time, so that it is not used for other purposes. It is also important not to be afraid of making further demands if the Police Authority does not do what the Swedish Parliament expects. We shall see a clearer police presence throughout the country. I have good reason to believe that the chief of police is very honest when he says that he believes that district police officers provide a very large exchange for the police authority, that it is a very important component of growth and that it must be something that guides growth in the future. I therefore look forward to returning to this discussion, and I look forward to seeing more district policemen working all over Sweden, also in Stockholm.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-310	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me whether I intend to investigate whether it is possible for the Swedish police to work in the same way and to carry out operations as the French police did with Encrochat. The government has an uncompromising attitude towards criminal networks. That is why we want to ensure that law enforcement authorities have the best possible conditions to carry out their missions. We ensure that there are more police officers, severe re penalties and more tools for police and prosecutors. The Government's 34-point programme against gang crime aims to both break recruitment and combat gang crime. It also includes preventive measures in schools, social services and welfare. The initiative against gang crime that the government is now implementing is the most comprehensive ever in Sweden, and it attacks crime from several quarters at the same time. The first paragraph of the 34-point programme has provided law enforcement authorities with a new tool, secret data reading, which was introduced on 1 April 2020. Now the authorities can access electronic communications and other electronic evidence that was previously unavailable, for example because of encryption. We know that secret data reading has already come into use and produced results. The material that has come from Encrochat is the result of intensive international police cooperation. The action against Encrochat was mainly carried out by French police in cooperation with law enforcement authorities from other countries. The action against Encrochat demonstrates the importance of good police and judicial cooperation with our European partners, not least within Europol and Eurojust. The government is a driving force within the EU to ensure that opportunities for international cooperation are improved. The law on secret data reading is still new and applies for a limited period of time, and we will need to evaluate its effects in the future. The police have received an increase in funding to acquire the resources needed to use the tool. The police are actively working to scale up their ability to perform, among other things, secret data reading. The government has also commissioned the authorities to report the use of secret data readings to the annual letter on secret coercive measures. We follow developments in this area closely and have a good dialogue with the authorities about their needs in the future. In conclusion, the government has taken and is taking a range of forward-looking measures to combat crime in criminal networks. This work will continue unabated.
i-2ZPiapqPUkmE46cguJX3WM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Mikael Damberg, for your answer! The gang crime is seeping like a poison in our society. The gang killings relieve each other. In the last few weeks we thought we had had a breathing room, but only a few days ago there was another shooting here in Stockholm. With regard to the Vårby network, the French police, which has broken Encrochat, have enabled Swedish police and Swedish prosecutors to conduct a historical trial, although I know that the Government may not comment on an ongoing investigation. I myself do not think that a Member of Parliament should do so either, so it is not just the Council of State. In the news, however, we can see the successes. In view of the evidence that has been put up after breaking Encrochat, you can see that our Swedish gangs do not consist of any 16 – 17-year-olds who make up their minds and live robbers. Sometimes it is also described as if it is because of a less good upbringing that you end up in bad associations. That's how the impulses strike, and then you start committing crimes. But this is very organized. You can see very clearly that there is a leader. There are clear missions. Someone's a runner. Someone's the captain. Someone's a scout. Someone sits in Spain and manages the recovery of drugs from Latin America or North Africa. Then it will be distributed throughout Europe, all the way up to Sweden, out to our suburbs and then into the rest of society. We see on social media how to boast with t-shirts that cost 7 000 – 9 000 crowns, t-shirts that I didn't even know existed. They don't just have a T-shirt like it says Balmain, Louis Vuitton or Gucci on. One of those small handbags called a pitcher bag can cost 10 000 to 20 000 kroner. The gangs launder money using prepaid cards that can be purchased at the petrol station, i.e. prepaid cards used as debit cards. So you wash the money either by buying goods and services online or by gambling on online casinos etcetera. The money is washed and enters the system. Madam President, I would like What we see is that both the perpetrator and victims often have a foreign background. It's a poison that's put itself in our suburbs. What we see in the Vårby network is not just a failure of integration. This is due to calllessness and the fact that we have had too much immigration. We have had a social service that either has not done its job properly or has not had the resources. Many mistakes have been made, and many politicians are responsible. This is a social problem. It should not be a moderate or a Social Democratic question. It is our society that we live and work in. In my next speech, I will come to this a little more in-depth, but my question to the Government is: Does the Government intend to investigate whether it is possible for the Swedish police to work in the same way and implement efforts made by the French police with Encrochat? It's not about years, it's not about months. Preventing a murder could be minutes or seconds. I therefore look forward to hearing the answer to my question.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-327	Madam President, I would like For a long time, gun violence in Sweden has been at a very high level, and by 2020 became a new record year for gang crime in Sweden when the shootings increased further. However, shootings, blasts and other serious violence are only the tip of an iceberg. Underneath the surface are crime networks that control entire districts, which frighten people to silence and help corrupt society. In some cases, the structures of criminal networks are mafia-like. This makes gang crime a particularly serious threat to society as a whole and therefore requires specific tools to crack it. It is, of course, about the need for more police officers, as the previous debate was about. A long series of penalties need to be tightened up further. The various forms of penalty rebates need to be fundamentally reformed, and children and young people, of course, need to choose different paths from those of crime. Another important part is how the police can use secret coercive measures to obtain intelligence and evidence. This has been brought up to date not least by the French police's action against Enchrochat and its importance in preventing crime and the fact that a large number of criminals have now been brought to justice. With this background, Mr Karapet has put an important interpellation to the Minister for the Interior if the Minister intends to investigate whether it is possible for the Swedish police to work in the same way and to carry out efforts that the French police have made against the encrypted chat tool Encrochat. However, no clear answer to that question was given in the interpellation answer. I can agree with the descriptions of the response to the importance of good police and judicial cooperation within Europol and Eurojust, as well as the fact that secret data reading is an important new tool. But as I said, it is not an answer to the question. I therefore wonder whether, even in the light of recent developments, the Minister for the Interior believes that Swedish legislation is sufficient, or would the Swedish police need additional tools at their disposal? One such additional tool requested by the Chief of Police is increased opportunities to use secret coercive measures proactively. Today, for example, there are some possibilities of listening to or using secret data reading for preventive purposes. However, these possibilities are essentially limited to situations where the prevention of terrorism or espionage may be involved. The proposal put forward by the chief police officer is to be able to target secret coercive measures against individuals who run organised crime without there being a concrete suspicion of crime in the individual case. There should, of course, be strong reasons for using such a system and, of course, the props for a person who is actively gang-criminal must be demonstrated in the individual case. The high level of procedural safeguards provided for by other use of secret coercive measures shall also apply in these cases. I would therefore like to end by asking the Minister for Home Affairs whether the current possibilities of using secret coercive measures against gang criminals are sufficient or whether the Minister for Home Affairs is prepared to meet with the Head of State and investigate the possibility of using secret coercive measures against gang criminals for preventive purposes.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-336	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an important interpellation debate in which we share a common view on the problem. Gang crime is a poison that has eaten into Sweden and has been established for a long time. These shootings and explosions in Sweden are not only crimes in themselves but also symptoms of something deeper. They are not least a result of how the drug market has grown, eaten and consolidated in Sweden. Much of the gang crime revolves around this. I would also like to say that I think it is important to see that what the chief police officer is now talking about is that we are in a new situation with gang trials rolling in Sweden. Some of the gang trials started before Encrochat was revealed as a result of the police's offensive work against gang crime and that there are now about a thousand more detainees than a few years ago. But this is something that still requires a lot of work in the future. One of the points the interpellier makes is that this type of crime must be tackled from a variety of quarters. It is not enough just to look at the weapons or explosives or something like that; instead, it is about not least the economy, that is, the status gadgets they use to build up and recruit the gangs. In addition to the big gang investigation that looks at sharper sentences for gang crime, there is an investigation looking at the seizure issue. We have already increased the possibility for the authorities to seize assets that may have come from criminal use. We go further and are inspired by countries such as Germany and some other European countries, or the United States, which have much more stringent legislation. If there are two Porsche cars in the driveway, but you have never reported an honest crown in your life, is it reasonable to keep the Porsche cars? The investigation looks at this issue in order to be able to focus more heavily on financial resources and the financing of criminal gangs. I am presenting this as an introduction to show that it is not just one or two questions. One of the issues on which I have spent a lot of time as Minister for the Interior is that I think we need to think about what leads to convictions. What do the police and prosecutors need to show that there are sufficient circumstances for convictions? Then I believe that technical evidence in various forms today is absolutely crucial to achieving success. That is why we have introduced new rules for data storage. There was a break after the Tele 2 judgment, and it was a very difficult blow to the police and prosecutors. This is a hugely important issue. We have made it easier to decide on secret interceptions, so that it is quicker for the authorities to work on those issues. We have increased the possibility of using secret coercive measures, such as signal reconnaissance, during the pre-trial investigation. It is also requested by law enforcement authorities. One issue that has not been discussed very much, which has to do with technical evidence, is also the possibility that we have moved on and acceded to the Cybercrime Convention. With that, we will have a new secret coercive measure in the form of a freezing of electronic data. It is also important in certain types of crime, more against sexual crimes and child pornography. But again, I remind you that the technical evidence is absolutely crucial. I've barely had time to go through secret data readings. It is a whole new tool that enables the police to do things that they have never done before, that is, to access encrypted information. The head of the Swedish police makes the assessment that full use of classified data reading can mean an Encrochat disclosure a year for the Swedish police. It is an extremely powerful tool.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-344	Madam President, I would like Society cannot always be one step behind. Let's do that now. Technology is moving forward. Technological developments cannot be prevented. The only thing society can do is always lie alongside the criminal networks. Today we're talking about Encrochat. Tomorrow it will be another encrypted service. Once we've broken the encrypted service, the criminals will have gone to the next post. People who commit organized crimes are smart. The only problem is that they're doing something illegal. That's the thing. Those of us who are in the rule of law, a democracy, must ensure that crime is prevented and that criminals – criminals – are arrested, investigated and convicted. But we're one step behind. The problem is that society can't always keep the investigations going. Once the police get the tools, they have to have the financial resources. We ourselves know that it takes time to find excellence. A recruitment process could take months in this country. Just look at any business. Then it is also a question of knowing that the public does not pay as much as the private business community. What does the state have to offer for these young women and men who are skilled programmers and knowledgeable in IT? We need to get the operation in place, and then the Police Authority has to work with the Prosecution Authority. The Prosecution Authority, in turn, must change, and so must the Swedish Courts – and in turn the Prison Service, etcetera. That's why this is an emergency. I think the Minister for the Interior shares the view with the Moderates and me that this is a major social problem. But I wish, Madam President, that the Minister for the Interior, together with his colleagues in the Government, would come out of political lockdown and say that it does not matter which party you represent. When a gang-criminal fires a shot at a victim, the shot does not look at which party that person votes for or where the person comes from. That shot has been fired to kill. What we are pleased to see now is that members of a large network have been arrested, but in Vårby the drugs have started to come back. Crime has declined in the ages so much that we are talking about 10-, 11- and 12-year-olds. Then they're under the police radar because social services don't have those muscles. Once they land on the radar, it is not a 15-year-old who commits petty crimes. The 15-year-old has a completely different world view. The 15-year-old has been charged with murder giving status. The 15-year-old has a broken personality... is an injured person... repressed to kill. In our world, a 15-year-old should play football and do his homework, but these 15-year-olds commit serious crimes as previously 25-30-year-olds did. I therefore have the following question. Now that the adult world is absent and the world of those young people is mobile phone and encrypted services, does the Minister intend to do something radical so that society is not one step behind, but along with the criminals, so that we get the murders off the streets?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-352	Madam President, I would like Thanks to the information from Encrochat that the Swedish police have been able to access through European police cooperation, a large number of serious criminals have been detained. There are now trials in several of those cases. Of course, it is gratifying that the judiciary can show great progress. At the same time, however, there is reason to fear that what we are seeing now is a temporary breathing space and that other parts of the crime networks will step forward after some time. We can also note that gang crime continues to have a very strong attractiveness for many young people. But we are in a window, and we need to take advantage of the opportunities that this opportunity gives us to advance the positions of the judiciary. I had hoped to get a clearer answer from the Minister for Home Affairs to the interpellant's question about what further measures the government sees in relation to what we have learned from the Encrochat information. Unfortunately, it did not come today. We also welcomed some time ago the fact that we were able to ratify the Cybercrime Convention. However, we can also note that despite seven eight years of preparation in the Government Office after the investigation was completed, the government has not been able to make proposals that change the seizure rules and make it possible to search the premises remotely, i.e. to go in and search for information stored in the cloud. It is a major deficiency, and the government has still not delivered it. There is still a great deal to be done, and I am a little concerned that in this debate the Minister for the Interior is a little too pleased with the legislation as it stands today.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-357	Madam President, I would like No, I'm absolutely not happy. We're gonna do a lot more. We are only at the beginning of this growth and expansion phase, which is not just about the police. This year, the major deliveries from the 34-item programme also come from all the investigations that have been set up. It will give us new legal opportunities to both tighten penalties and move forward on several important issues. I'm not happy. Much more should be done. One should be a little careful when talking about this with Encrochat as a temporary effect. One should know that Sky SCC is the next major international breakthrough. Our assessment so far, provisionally, is that Sky SCC can affect twice as many people in Sweden as Encrochat. So there will be more, and we will continue to work on Encrochat disclosure. HDA has just begun to use and work. It can deliver approximately one Encrochat a year, and it's technology neutral. That's what's so good about HDA – it doesn't matter what kind of platform you use; the legislation gives the police the opportunity to act anyway. That is what is happening now. One more thing about the window that you both discussed and about which the chief of police has spoken: it is incredibly important that there is no prestige at the other end of this either. Right now, the focus of all actors should be on how we prevent young people from being sucked into the criminal networks linked to drugs and other things. At the moment, we have knocked out a leadership section of the networks and are under enormous pressure on formal networks today. Let's now work very proactively to prevent recruitment and make sure that new recruits don't come in there! Otherwise, there's a risk that we'll get it back in the future. I expect that there may be new acts of violence and that there may be new red conflicts, which already exist in Sweden. We don't take anything for granted. Of course, it is more positive that the shootings have decreased by 40 percent at the beginning of this year than it would have been if they had not, but we are not there yet. What's in the pipeline? The first thing I want to say is that even the Moderates' proposal would not give Swedish police what French police have, just so that we are clear about it. That's not how it works. We don't have these companies in Sweden, we don't have these server halls in Sweden and even if you went outside the investigation questions you could access to empty entire servers. So no, not even the Moderates' proposal lets the Swedish police do what the French police have done. Will there be further action? Yes, I can reassure you. The seizure question is under way. It's pretty technical. That investigation got some criticism, so we're working on it now. I hope to be able to come back quite soon on this issue, including distance. That's a very important question. We have also set up an investigation to make it easier to use secret coercive measures in more cases than today. If the Swedish Prosecution Authority has to rank proposals and choose one that they think is important to get to grips with gang crime in Sweden, then it will be a change to the rules for when secret coercive measures can be used. That investigation's been set up, so there's more to it. I think it is important also to look at what we really know about the legal bases used in France, Belgium and the Netherlands. What legislation did they use, how did it happen, and what effect can secret data reading have on these kinds of issues? I think that we need to go through it very carefully when discussing further changes in secret coercive measures in Sweden.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-365	Madam President, I would like Finally, yes, we must have secret data interception and secret coercive measures. But let us take the Spring village network as an example. Most of them are behind bars, at least today-- it's an ongoing trial, and we don't know the outcome yet. But it fills up. What we need to understand from politics and society is that the view of crime has changed in our society. That is to say, many young people grow up in an environment where they have calculated in advance and think it is worth committing this crime with penalty discounts and with the youth discount. In the perfect world that I would like to have, we would not have young people who are criminals. No one commits crimes there. Sure, at one time some form of penalty discount and youth discount had a function in our society. But crime has declined in its ages, and it has changed. It's gotten a lot rougher. You can talk to someone about what it was like in the '70s. Then maybe there was some knife cut on Södermalm. Now we have people who empty automatic weapons at a gas station and even hit an innocent person and kill it while they don't even hit the target, that is, the target. I would appreciate it if we had a government that came and gathered the whole opposition and said: You know what? We live and work in the same society. Let's put away all the prestige! What is happening now is that we can't get to the heads, and it just fills on and on and on. Madam President, I would like Those who are the victims are the children of those who were once protected in Sweden. It is children of foreign background who shoot to death other children of foreign background, and it must be stopped.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-372	Madam President, I would like An important interpellation dealing with one of the greatest problems of our time, gang violence and gang crime. It will be crushed, and we will attack it from all sides. I appreciate it when Parliament agrees on opinions. I'm not going all the way there, but we invited you to a gang conversation. The Moderates dropped out, but we can do that another time. It is only good if we can agree on matters and push them through quickly. One parenthesis: We tighten the penalties for gang crime. There will be an investigation this year. We will abolish the youth discount for 18-year-olds in the case of serious crime. But that's not enough. We must realise that it is possible to turn life right for 10 to 12 year olds in Sweden. It is not impossible to prevent young people from getting involved in crime. But then we need to focus more on how we prevent recruitment. How do you work structured from school and social services together with the police? What efforts can civil society make now that we have a new window, as described by the chief police officer, where the shootings in Sweden have decreased some at the beginning of the year so that it is not just filled up with new young people? A little perspective, however, when you talk about that in the past there was perhaps some knife cutting on Södermalm: When I graduated high school, the deadly violence in Sweden was greater than today. About that time, the motorcycle gangs shot grenades and mortars at each other and each other's premises, so there's been deadly violence. What has increased in recent years is the violence against firearms and the explosions. It is really serious, and that is why I welcome the fact that it has decreased at the beginning of the year. But much more needs to be done, and I take nothing for granted. We will continue the escalation, and we are happy to do so in cooperation with all parties in the Riksdag.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-377	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to counter the security threats reported by the Security Police in their yearbook and whether I intend to strengthen central authorities such as the Security Police, the FRA and Must in order to deal with an accelerating security threat. Finally, Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what back-up measures I and the government have taken to reduce the security threat and whether I think they are effective. The government takes the Security Service's assessment very seriously. In recent years we have worked systematically on these issues, and we will continue to do so. A central example is the government's decision on the total defence bill, which together with the additions to the budget bill means the biggest investment in civil defence in modern times. The government has also strengthened defence intelligence capabilities within the framework of this. In order to strengthen the protection of the most protected activities in society, a modernised security law has been developed, and on 1 January this year the legislation was further strengthened. Work is also under way to develop legislative proposals aimed, among other things, at strengthening supervision in this area and imposing sanctions on operators who do not carry out their safety protection. The Government has also set up an investigation tasked with proposing a system for reviewing foreign direct investment in areas worthy of protection. The government has also decided on the establishment of a cybersecurity centre and a psychological defence authority. These measures provide central authorities with better tools for reducing vulnerability, and society today has a visible increase in awareness of the importance of security protection. The national strategy against terrorism is the starting point for Sweden's long-term work, nationally and internationally. In addition, extensive work is being carried out within the framework of the political agreements against terrorism, including by reviewing the possibilities of restricting the constitutionally protected freedom of association in relation to associations engaged in terrorism, and strengthening cooperation and exchange of information between the relevant authorities. It is a major problem that people who are deemed to pose a security threat to Sweden are still in the country. At the same time, we are bound by international agreements on human rights. The Government Office is preparing a proposal for a new law to replace the law on special foreign control. In the study that forms the basis for the work, A more effective regulatory framework for foreign affairs with security aspects (SOU 2020:16), among other things, proposes a lower requirement for the expulsion of persons who pose a qualified security threat and extended possibilities for coercive use of such individuals. The issue of accountability and prosecution of individuals who have committed crimes in Syria and Iraq remains a priority for the government. Prosecution should take place primarily in the region. The adults who voluntarily joined Daish/ IS cannot count on help if the latter wish to return home. For those people who still return to Sweden, there has been good cooperation between authorities for some years now, and police and other measures are taken whenever possible. Me and the government will continue the priority and urgent work to counter security threats to Sweden, and we share the Swedish Security Service's assessment that more people need to do more and think the step further.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Security threats to Sweden have increased and are expected to continue to increase in the next few years. The threats come from foreign power as well as violent extremism. The attackers have gained an increased capacity supported by both digitalisation and polarisation in society. The ongoing pandemic and safety deficiencies are helping to reinforce vulnerabilities. This is noted by the Security Service in its 2020 Yearbook. That's why I've written this interpellation. I am concerned that our Swedish security police have noted that security threats are on the increase. They also note that what we are doing is not enough. I quote, ‘More people need to do more and think the step further.' This is exactly what Minister Damberg said in his reply to me. The more security threats there are, the more work is needed by the Security Service. That is why I asked in my interpellation whether the Government intends to take any steps to counter the security threats reported by Säpo in its Yearbook. I also asked what security measures the Government and the Government have taken to reduce security threats and whether the Government considers that they have been effective. I have received a number of lists, Madam President, but I do not feel that I am getting any real answers from the Minister to the question of whether they have been effective. Nor do I get any real answers as to whether the Government intends to strengthen central authorities such as Säpo, FRA and Must in order to deal with an accelerating security threat. I had an interesting discussion with one of my teenagers last night. She wondered what I was doing, and I told her about this interpellation debate. I told you that there are about 130 people in Sweden who are classified as a threat to national security and are to be expelled but have not left Sweden because they have not been able to execute the expulsion yet. She thought it was a joke at first. But when she realized that it was serious, wise questions came: How should the government ensure that I am safe? Don't I have a priority in this? Aren't I important in this? Today, the Security Service is supposed to keep an eye on these people. But what happens if what can't happen anyway happens and one of these people performs a terrorist act, especially now that the Swedish Security Service has flagged because Sweden doesn't do enough? Is it possible to sue the state? Who is responsible? Does the Minister think that the Minister and the Government have gone far enough in legislation to narrow down the possibilities for these people, who pose a qualified security threat, to move freely in society? In connection with the release of six radical Islamists pending the execution of expulsions, the Minister stated in November 2019 that expulsion barriers should be removed. My supplementary question to the Minister will then be: what has happened to this removal? The UK is highlighted as a good example in working with diplomatic guarantees. I wonder whether the Minister and the Government are working to make greater use of diplomatic guarantees in order to implement expulsion decisions and yet ensure the human rights of the expelled.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-394	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. And thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for a very urgent interpellation! Let me begin by saying that the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence invited Mr Must, Mr Säpo and Mr FRA a few weeks ago so that the services could jointly produce their annual reports. I have to say that it was very valuable to be able to take part in and compare the analyses between the authorities. However, there was also considerable concern when the compiled picture was linked to the current security situation. Like Alexandra Anstrell, I got caught up in what Klas Friberg told me at the time. He simply talked about that the efforts and the will required to keep Sweden safe are not enough, that more must be done and that more must think the step further. I think that is very thoughtful and very urgent. That is exactly the case, Madam President. Sweden is in a very serious security policy situation where threats to our security have increased over time. The pandemic has helped to strengthen it both in the long and short term. In the short term, we see an increase in cyber attacks. We become more vulnerable when we work from home. We see that disinformation operations are targeting various vaccines, and we see that cyberintelligence is increasing, for example against pharmaceutical producers. But if you look at the longer lines, you can also see that the big power confrontation is increasing. We see increased tensions between the great powers; for example, it has been taken up by Mr Must in his annual report. I think that the Russian scrambling with the sablas now along the border with Ukraine and the great mobilization that is fully in line with 2014 and the illegal annexation of Crimea call for reflection on the very serious security policy situation we find ourselves in. The second thing that I think is important to have with us is that we are facing a more complex and multidimensional threat now than a few years ago. We note that, in addition to the fact that we cannot rule out a risk of an armed attack, we see that hybrid threats are increasing in strength and extent. The Moderates therefore recently presented a 24-point programme to achieve a coherent policy in Sweden to increase resilience to these hybrid threats. I simply believe that we must note that threats to our security are both military, economic and political. So it's not either or it's both. This, Madam President, must have consequences. We need to know better about the threats, risks and vulnerabilities facing Sweden. That is why a strengthened defence intelligence capability is very important. The Moderates therefore pushed on very hard during the defence negotiations precisely to increase the funds both to the FRA and to Must to strengthen the ability to obtain threats from the outside world. I can also say that in our shadow budget we are spending EUR 100 million over three years on the FRA. We believe that it is natural for them to be given the leading responsibility for the cybersecurity centre, because it is essential to combine signal intelligence and information security work. It is about bringing more resources into the defence intelligence capability. The second dimension is to review legislation. There we have pushed from the Moderates that we need a review of the law on signal reconnaissance. It is partly about which authorities are going to be able to do this. We think there may be reason for more people in the defense family to focus signal reconnaissance. But it's also about how the signal reconnaissance can be conducted. For example, it may be that you are looking at section 2a, which today prevents us from following two intelligence officers or two terrorists who are in Sweden. You can't follow them with signal reconnaissance. However, the government has still not given any information about the direction of such an investigation or when it comes. I would therefore like to ask Mikael Damberg when it will come back with a report on the directive for an investigation into the law on signalling. It's urgent.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-407	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation with a broad area, which we hear during the debate. It's both, and not least, about the Security Service's assessment of the individuals who are in Sweden – we will talk about it – and about the broader threat picture and a wide range of issues that Pål Jonson raises in the debate. I'll start with Anstrell's question anyway. She asked me if I believe that Sweden has done everything necessary to deal with the security issues that come from the fact that some of the people we would like to expel from Sweden have enforcement barriers. Courts have decided that they must not be expelled from Sweden under the circumstances. My simple answer to that question is no. We have had an investigation that has looked at the whole issue of legislation. It has submitted a report which contains a great many parts. It is proposed that the Special Alien Control Act be replaced by a new law – the special control law for certain foreigners. The requirement to be expelled under the new law is proposed to be lower, i.e. to make it easier to expel people. The time a foreigner may be held in detention will be changed, including by considerably extending the time limits for enforcement detention and extending the possibility of extension compared to the current legal framework. The investigation also suggests that the possibility of using secret coercive measures should be extended for this group of persons to include more and that the Security Service should be given the opportunity to use secret coercive measures in the event of further expulsions. Under the new law, the obligation to notify will become more intervention. The decision also includes, for example, the possibility of a foreigner being banned from leaving a specific area of stay, as the proposal states. The penalty should be increased for violations of the obligation to notify, among other things. The report proposes that the offences in question are such that the penalty should normally be imprisonment and not fines. It is therefore a whole series of proposals that are now being prepared. My message is that we are working on this with full pressure, but that this legislation should be decided on at the same time as the new Terrorist Crimes Act because the new legislation is linked to the Terrorist Crimes Act and is based on it. Therefore, these two legislative referrals need to be coordinated. But we are working with full force to ensure that the legislative referrals can be made so that we can move forward in the legislative work. As far as Pål Jonson's many perspectives are concerned, that is quite correct; I fully share the view that we are facing a deteriorating security policy situation, that we are facing a broader threat picture and that one feature of this broader threat picture is that antagonistic forces are actually using the whole threat scale and a variety of tools – everything from financial intervention to political pressure but also espionage, intelligence and the classic part. The Cyber Area is a special area in which, if I remember correctly, we have now only spent up to SEK 440 million in a construction phase for the Centre to the relevant authorities. At least it's over $400 million. And then it's only to the center and not to the security work that we are now strengthening very powerfully with several hundred million SEK so that agencies will also work with oversight issues linked to security protection. It is therefore an enormous phase of expansion that is taking place in this area, but more will have to be done. I'll have to come back to the final questions, which I didn't have time for.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-416	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Special Alien Control Act plays an important role in Sweden's security by allowing special measures to be taken against foreigners who are deemed to constitute qualified security threats. If I have understood correctly, the government committed itself in connection with the so-called "Terrorist Agreement" in 2017 to reviewing the legislation. In 2019 we had the matter that I talked about earlier, about the re-debated six Islamists. Now we have 2020, and the Minister's response mentions a lot of things about what this can mean and that work on this is being prepared within the Government Office. Now we are also hearing that this is to be coordinated with other legislation. The question is, Madam President, how long will we have to wait? Could the Minister give us a more detailed timetable for when this can come up for decision? It's gone, and it's gone, a lot of time. The starting point for the Moderates is that foreign citizens who pose a threat to Sweden's security should leave the country. If, for various reasons, it is not possible to implement these people, they need to be kept in custody or monitored in a safe manner, of course in accordance with our international commitments. The European Court of Human Rights says that the state should do its best to protect its citizens. But do we even know who should be protected and against what? Today there has been a report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which has examined whether the Migration Agency and the foreign authorities ensure that the handling of so-called connecting matters is of high legal quality. The review shows that there are quite significant shortcomings, particularly in the process of clarifying the identity of the applicant. The staff of the foreign authorities check that the applicant has the right kind of documents but not if they are genuine, despite the fact that in many countries counterfeit ID documents are commonplace. Madam President, I would like It is central that the state can determine who lives in Sweden and secure order and order. Sweden has serious problems with serious organised crime, extensive exclusion, grant crimes and threats to national security. Now there is the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which shows major deficiencies in identity control. Weaknesses in the control of population records are one of several factors that have given rise to a great deal of these problems. In addition to the 130 that we have previously talked about, which we know exists in Sweden today and is an explicit threat to national security, there may thus be more that we do not even know and know nothing about. We Moderates have proposed a census that allows the state to better combat crime, tools to prevent the emergence of alienation and parallel communities, and important knowledge in the work to combat problems such as overcrowding. A national census would be an important start to establish a safer Sweden and safeguard the social contract. My supplementary question to the Minister is therefore: is it something that the Minister would be willing to implement?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-423	Madam President, I would like I would like to follow up on two points in Mikael Damberg's reply. On the one hand, Damberg highlights the new national cybersecurity centre, and on the other hand, I would like to highlight the new psychological defence authority. After all, the very idea of creating a center instead of an authority was that it would be quick. I note that it is now three years since the Prime Minister first presented the idea that we should have a new cybersecurity centre. The Moderates have welcomed this. However, I am concerned that this is taking quite some time. We still do not know where the centre should be, three years after it was decided to establish it. Madam President, I would like Sweden has quite a lot of problems when it comes to cybersecurity. It's getting better. I think it was good that the government pressed hard to increase security in connection with the total defence. We fully agree that it really needs to be built up a much stronger safety protection but also a better safety culture. After all, however, we have shortcomings in our cybersecurity even in an international comparison. The idea was that the centre would be the hub of this work by achieving more effective collaboration between seven authorities. The second thing I wanted to raise was the new psychological defence agency. It will have a shared location between Karlstad and Stockholm. In Karlstad you can interact with MSB and FHS, I can imagine, and in Stockholm you will move over the operational parts that are currently at MSB. I think it is quite natural that they are also located in the Stockholm area. They'll have to work closely with the intelligence and security services. From my point of view, I would find it very natural to co-locate the operational part of the psychological defence authority with the cybersecurity centre. Both of these actors will work with impact operations in digital environments. Both will work very closely with the security and intelligence services. Both will also have a strong need for premises with high security protection. It is estimated that somewhere between 10 and 15 million could be saved only in security protection through such co-location. Is the Minister open to this?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-428	Madam President, I would like There are several different parts. I'll start with Anstrell's questions about the timetable. This is pretty technical-legal. Only the investigation for which I am responsible is up to one inch thick. Since this legislation is to be linked with another legislation that is currently under development, it is important that these legislations are consistent. The Council would probably not appreciate the presentation of a product based on another legislation that has not yet been presented. Therefore, these products are best put together. Our ambition is to do so as quickly as possible. Hopefully, we can present the legislative referral before the summer, otherwise immediately after the summer. I have no reason to wait for this, but the lawyers must finish their work before we can present the legislative referrals. There is no other way forward. But hopefully this happens as soon as possible so that the Riksdag can also process, decide and take a stand. On several other issues, it is a question of identity checks and censuses. There is now a great deal of work linked to the security issues surrounding the ID cards in Sweden, which leaves a lot to be desired. We have the entire civil registration work, which is a major issue that the Finance Minister in particular is pursuing. There we have extensive work in progress and several government assignments that run. We also carry out pilot projects and have targeted assignments to the tax authorities to work much more structured with population records in a way that has not been done before. When it comes to the pure question of whether we are going to carry out a census, we also need to think about what that means. I have not seen any convincing arguments for how to implement such a thing wisely. Since most people live at the address they are actually written on, there will be a huge waste of resources, time and energy for the agency, rather than focusing on the errors and misuse of public records. This is the work on which not least the Minister for Finance has a great deal of commitment to moving forward. The next step in this is the issue of biometrics, linking even more fingerprints and biometrics to identity documents in a way that makes them safer. We have a journey to make, but we have a lot of processes going on in this area, both in Sweden and some linked to European processes. As far as intelligence is concerned, we should first of all state that the security policy situation must have consequences, and indeed it does. In the defence policy bill, there is a massive expansion of military defence, civil defence with multiple capabilities, including the capacity of the FRA. Over time, they receive resources that are linked not only to the cybersecurity centre but also to other deployments. It is a broad expansion of Sweden's ability that we are now facing and that we are implementing. There were a lot of questions; I'm trying to make it. No, we've given word that we're going to review the law on signal reconnaissance. We do not have a timetable presented. I think that Peter Hultqvist might even rather than want to present that timetable when it comes to this. But we'll prepare the question. When it comes to the big problems with cyber security, they are due to the fact that Sweden is very digitised. Then you get bigger problems with cyber security than countries that are underdeveloped. I can only say a moment of joy: a few weeks ago, Sweden won the world's largest cybersecurity competition, where the police, the Armed Forces, Säpo and MSB competed. It was a good sign that we also have some good abilities in Sweden in this area.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It was really gratifying to hear that we won that competition, not least for me who is competition nerd. During the Easter weekend we were reported that two people were arrested by Säpo here in Stockholm, suspected of conspiracy to commit terrorist crimes. Islamic and right-wing, motivated terrorism is considered to be the main terrorist threat to Sweden. This is noted by the National Centre for Terrorist Threat Assessment, NCT, in its full-year assessment for 2021. Within these extremist environments, there will possibly be a few people during 2021 who develop the intention and ability to carry out a terrorist attack in Sweden. Now Säpo has already arrested two people. The question then arises: How many more are there? And do we have sufficient resources? How are we going to calm our teenagers down? Sweden is described as an attractive target for foreign power, and Säpo estimates that the threat of intelligence continues to increase. The threat of the attack remains elevated – it is a third, which means that an attack can occur in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The other week, Mr Säpo, Mr Must and Mr FRA presented their annual reports to the Committee on Defence. I am grateful and appreciate the honesty of their reports, but I cannot say that I was less concerned. When a problem is highlighted, we need to find solutions that we believe will improve the situation. I wonder if the Minister – his hand on his heart – is satisfied with the situation in Sweden today? Is it satisfied with the efforts and the effectiveness of the interventions? I have not received an answer to that question. I think we can do better than that. But time passes, and it takes time. What's taking so long?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-445	Madam President, I would like It is important to point out that in recent years Sweden has invested heavily in increased capacity to deal with terrorist threats against Sweden in the form of resources for both the Swedish Security Service and the open police. This also means, in terms of the police's great growth, that the police have not only trained themselves in how to intervene against actively ongoing deadly violence and have equipped themselves in a completely different way, but also how to act tactically in these situations and how to deal with several ongoing events at the same time by solving equipment issues, which could not be done in the same way in the past. I can say – the hand on the heart – that we in Sweden today have a better ability to deal with terrorist attacks against Sweden than we had a few years ago. However, this does not mean that we can settle down or say that we do not have development areas, but we must continue to develop this. The threat to Sweden remains elevated, and we must continue to develop these abilities. Much is linked to digital development. We see that very many of the actors who are identified as the biggest potential threats to Sweden are solitary actors who have often been radicalized in different forums online, in Sweden but perhaps with links to international environments in Russia, in other European countries or in the United States, really regardless of extremist environment. This is a technical journey that the intelligence services need to develop further. However, it is also about our international cooperation – often these environments are not only Swedish but also have international connections. This is a work in progress. Much will happen in Sweden, but much will also be done within the framework of European cooperation. We have a very strong development in Europe's work against terrorism and radicalisation, and this must continue.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-450	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me three questions. The first question is whether I intend to take any measures to facilitate the payment of aid for broadband expansion. The second question is whether I intend to review the broadband strategy in order to increase the rate of expansion. The third question is what measures I intend to take to speed up the roll-out of broadband in rural areas. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) is the responsible authority for broadband support in accordance with the regulation on state aid for broadband infrastructure deployment. According to its regulatory letter, PTS must ensure that all regions of Sweden with eligible buildings are eligible for the allocation of support funds. PTS shall promote good geographical dissemination of the support and ensure that different types of actors are eligible for support, especially broadband associations. According to information from the Agency, PTS has simplified the application process for applicants through the development of a new IT system that has been directly adapted for applications for broadband support. Some simplifications have also been made to the requirements for development projects, which are expected to simplify the design of aid applicants. The long-term objective of the broadband strategy to 2025 is that 98 per cent of households and businesses should have access to broadband of at least 1 gigabit per second or fibre in the absolute vicinity. The broadband strategy is constantly being followed up. PTS presented a follow-up to the objectives of the strategy in March. Nearly 95 per cent of households and enterprises had access to 1 gigabit per second or fibre in absolute proximity in October 2020, i.e. about six months ago, compared with approximately 92 per cent in October 2019, i.e. one and a half years ago. In an international comparison, Sweden has a very well-developed broadband infrastructure. In the European Commission's DESI 2020 report, Sweden was ranked second in the area of connectivity. A further SEK 1.4 billion was added in 2021 to strengthen the national support system for broadband roll-out in rural areas. In addition, the Government has decided on a continuation of the Bredbandsforum and assignment to PTS to support Bredbandsforum and the Government in promoting access to broadband. The Government has also decided to offer the regions and the municipality of Gotland a role as regional broadband coordinator also during the period 2021-2025 in order to help ensure that the issues are also placed in a strategic regional development perspective. In addition to this, the County Administrative Boards are tasked with promoting and supporting actions for broadband roll-out and thereby promoting the achievement of the goal that Sweden should have world-class broadband. The Government Office has commissioned Håkan Eriksson to develop proposals for exceptions to the localisation principle, which, among other things, governs where municipal investments in broadband expansion can be carried out. The aim is to promote the roll-out of broadband. The mission shall be completed by 9 December 2021.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-458	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The pandemin has increased the use of digital solutions very much, and we have probably all become aware of how extremely important it is to have a good connection. In view of changing travel patterns and possibilities to settle further away from your workplace if you are going to work at home more, this becomes even more important. Broadband belongs to a basic digital infrastructure, and we agree politically that it is important for everyone to have access to good broadband. We have a strategy since 2016. Although nine out of ten urban households have access to fibre today, rural areas have fallen behind. PTS was able to conclude in an overview of the broadband target that we will not reach the targets set. PTS also made the assessment that further government investments will be required to reach the remaining households. The Broadband Forum has concluded that one of the most important measures for faster deployment, in addition to increased funding, is active public leadership. Sweden has set an ambitious target to expand broadband in the country. This is a good thing, and it should be done in order for the whole of Sweden to live. However, it is quite clear that the government is not doing enough to achieve these goals. That all of Sweden should have this connection is extremely important. Many modern solutions in, for example, public services, such as home care and the like, are currently based on a functioning connection. New business models and initiatives also depend on these solutions, in particular new methods for improving the efficiency of green industries, such as agriculture and forestry. The principle of localisation is causing problems, and it has been doing so for a long time – this is not news. Municipal companies cannot dig over the municipal border even if it is the most rational. The problem has been known for a very long time, and one might ask why the government has been delaying addressing it for so long. Proposals for derogations shall be presented in December 2021. Then one might wonder whether there will be any change even during this term of office. It is important that we open up to competition and a well-functioning market in this area, but it is also important that we have a balance so that the public and private sectors are given some different responsibilities and can be involved in the roll-out of broadband. It must be clear what the boundaries between urban networks and commercial operators' networks should be. To facilitate the cost-effective deployment of high-speed broadband at the lowest possible cost for both consumers and tax communities, the resources already available need to be used. For example, Trafikverket, Svenska Kraftnät and a number of other state actors have fibre networks that span all over Sweden. They are mainly used to control railway and power lines. Parts of the fibre networks are currently under-utilised. These facilities could be used to increase access to broadband. In addition, a more operational secure network structure could be created by connecting those fibre networks. For this reason, the possibility of making the various fibre networks in state ownership available to the market should be reviewed, without, of course, compromising national security interests. I therefore wonder whether the government is prepared to look at the possibility of using state fibre networks to speed up development and keep costs down.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-469	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that this is a problem that has been known for a long time and which I addressed when I became Minister for Digitalization. Collaboration agreements already make it possible to dig in another municipality. But we want to move forward and have therefore set up an investigation. The humble person may wonder: If it has been known for so long, why was it not solved during the eight years that the Moderates led the government work? Now the problem is solved, and I think we can both be happy about that. I have nothing against looking at whether we can use the state-owned IT infrastructure more efficiently than we do today. However, 95 percent of Sweden's population has access to fibre in their immediate vicinity. Sweden is the country in the European Union where most citizens have access to really fast internet. Even twice as many citizens in Sweden have access to the fast internet as in the second country in the EU. And it is three times as many citizens in Sweden who have access to really fast internet as in, for example, Finland, which is a more comparable country, because like Sweden it is a little more sparsely populated. What is needed now is not primarily spinal infrastructure along our core railways, but building the last few percent out in very sparsely populated areas. Unfortunately, there is no government fiber outside the croft. It must either be dug or become a radio link. Both of these technologies are supported by the broadband support that the government has seven times in the latest budget.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-473	Madam President, I would like It is easy to beat your chest and say that we have good figures compared to other countries. Maybe we should be happy about that. At the same time, we are one of the world's most digitised countries. It is taken for granted to have good access. For those who do not have it, who do not have enough capacity in their networks, it is difficult to take advantage of the digital service that our authorities and municipalities are beginning to offer. To achieve the broadband targets, political leadership is needed. That was clearly stated. More needs to be done there. There are a lot of problems, not least with how broadband support is paid out. One of the reasons I have chosen to raise the issue with the Minister for Digitalization is an article series in Norrtelje Tidning. It specifically concerns Norrtälje municipality, but if I have understood it correctly it is not unique for Norrtälje municipality. Telia plans to deploy radiolink solutions in the municipality. This, in turn, disqualifies the municipal company that would build broadband in terms of obtaining state broadband support, under EU State aid rules. It assesses whether there is a market failure. Then you count 30 megabits per second. A radio link can at best provide a speed of 30 megabits per second, and if there are plans for it in one area, this in itself leads to their disqualification from obtaining state aid, according to EU rules. I wonder how the government sees a state-owned company now blocking opportunities for the municipal company to receive support to expand broadband in the municipality. It is difficult to say that Norrtälje municipality, although there are sparsely populated parts in that municipality, belongs to the absolute sparsely populated area of Sweden. There you need to do more. This element 22, which has been put in place, is not acceptable. I fully understand that there will probably be individual households that are very far away for which it will be difficult to find a solution other than a radio link. There, the speed must rise to more than 30 megabits. But in an area like Norrtälje one should not be directed to such a solution. One should not be disqualified from State aid to extend broadband simply because a radio link is planned or partly covers the municipality. Changes are underway in what should be considered a market failure and in the 30 megabit limit. But it will take time for the EU to change it. In the meantime, there will be problems with state broadband support for some municipalities. Germany has apparently received an exception. I wonder how the Minister for Digitalization sees the possibility of Sweden receiving an exception. Is it something that the government is running in Europe?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-480	Madam President, I would like No, we're not looking for an exception. And no, it's not what Maria Stockhaus expresses. It's a completely wrong picture. Firstly, radio links with 5G can reach 500 to 600 megabits per second, i.e. five six times faster than the target we have set for fast broadband in Sweden. Secondly, Telia or the other companies that might be interested in building fixed wireless access will not report any areas. They will report afterwards the addresses where they have linked fixed wireless access. The only ones that could be excluded from broadband support are the addresses where someone has already signed up for a different solution, no one else. This is therefore not a problem. Sweden is not for nothing active in the updating of the EU acquis, as 30 megabits per second do not count as fast broadband in Sweden. We set the limit at 100 megabits per second. And that applies regardless of the technical solution. According to the way we see it, you don't have a fast connection if you have something that's under 100 megabits per second. But this is not a problem in Sweden.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-485	Madam President, I would like In Norrtälje it is a very concrete problem. They have been denied broadband support precisely because it is not assessed as a market failure in Norrtälje as Telia has expanded the radio link so that it is possible in parts of the municipality to get a speed of 30 megabits. It is interesting; if it is so simple that it is not disqualifying at all, I wonder why Norrtälje Municipality has not received an answer to the letter that has been sent to the Ministry of Digitalization. It was written three months ago. I know this in Norrtälje is seen as a big problem. I have also been told that about fifty other municipalities are in the same situation as Norrtälje. They need to be clearly informed about the situation. At present, this is perceived as a problem and broadband support has been denied.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-488	Madam President, I would like No, broadband support has not been denied in Norrtälje municipality or any other municipality because of this. There was a concern in Norrtälje Municipality and some other municipality that broadband support could be denied for this reason. However, as I described in my previous reply, no one will be denied broadband support in this regard, as the problem is now under consideration. As far as I am aware, Norrtälje Municipality has also received an answer to its letter. If this is not the case, we will have to look for the error at Postnord, which is now a supplier. For information to Maria Stockhaus, I can also say that I have a property in Norrtälje, and there are two broadband providers in my immediate vicinity that offer speeds of over 400 megabits per second. I am convinced that Norrtälje Municipality in the form of Norrtälje Energi, the municipal developer, will be able to apply for broadband support. They will not be prevented by fixed wireless access. Those who want broadband in Norrtälje municipality will be able to get it, and those who want broadband from other suppliers will get it. The market will decide which solution is the best.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-492	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has asked me how I see the Swedish Enterprise's power networks repeatedly limiting the transmission capacity more than is allowed and whether I intend to take any action in this regard. Furthermore, Joar Forssell has asked me how the neighbouring countries see that Sweden will not live up to its commitments and what contacts I have had with the countries. Joar Forssell has also asked me whether the planned network reinforcements from north to south will help, or whether the new lines will also be limited once they are in place. Then, Joar Forssell has asked me what measures, in addition to electricity grids, I see to strengthen the power system in southern Sweden, and when we can expect the situation to normalise. Furthermore, Joar Forssell has asked me if the government is prepared to discuss a change of law so that Ringhals 1 can be restarted to remedy the serious situation that southern Sweden is in. Finally, Joar Forssell has asked me if I believe that Sweden is living up to its commitments under the regulation on risk preparedness in the electricity sector(EU) 2019/ 941, whether Sweden is acting in accordance with the regulation's Article 15.19, in a spirit of solidarity to prevent and manage electricity crises, and whether the assessment is changed by the restrictions announced by Swedish grids. Let me begin by giving a slightly brighter picture of the situation than does Joar Forssell. We are in a very good position to switch to a renewable electricity system compared to many other countries. We have low carbon emissions in the electricity sector. We have plenty of electricity, and Sweden's record exports on an annual basis are a clear indication that electricity costs more in other countries. We also see several examples of investment and establishment from industry in the light of what I have just mentioned. But there are also challenges that we can occasionally experience such as network limitations and price differences within the country. To solve this, the development of network infrastructure and the right incentives for the market to invest in electricity generation are needed. In addition to the fact that Swedish power networks almost triple their network investments over the next three-year period, the government is working on several initiatives. Last week we presented proposals to shorten the lead times in licensing for new electricity networks. These are the biggest changes in permit periods that have been put on the table since Sweden was electrified. The Government has commissioned Svenska Kraftnät to submit proposals for new remuneration models and regulatory changes regarding support services in the electricity system. The government has also recently referred proposals to reduce electricity producers' costs of connecting offshore electricity production to the electricity grid. So to Joar Forssell's questions. As far as the first and second questions are concerned, as far as I understand, the Swedish power grid does not have any plans to impose greater restrictions than is permitted. On the third issue of network reinforcements, the Swedish power grid works in the short term to implement measures and investments in stations. In the longer term, additional east-west line capacity is needed. In its North-South programme, Swedish power networks have decided on an east-west lead from Hamra in Stockholm across Västerås and on to Hallsberg, which will strengthen the network in the tt a respect. With regard to the issue of non-net-related measures, I would like to refer to my initial examples of strengthening, among other things, the conditions for offshore electricity production. Then Joar Forssell has asked about the reboot of Ringhals 1. Here I would like to remind you that Ringhals' main owner Vattenfall AB already in 2015 took a specialization decision on the closure of the Ringhals 1 and 2 reactors in the time interval 2018 – 2020. A formal decision on closure was later made by Ringhals Board. As Minister of Energy, I do not have any views on the market-based assessments of the Vattenfall Group. Finally, my answer is yes to the question of whether I believe that Sweden is living up to its commitments under the so-called risk preparedness regulation. The aim of the regulation is to prevent, prepare for and deal with electricity crises. The work on this is coordinated at EU level, and the Government has previously appointed the Swedish Energy Authority as the competent authority according to the regulation.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-502	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First of all, I can say that we agree on the enormous importance of electrifying Sweden and the world in the fight against climate change. It is not possible to continue to have growth and build Sweden stronger and thus also create the opportunity for prosperity by first building prosperity if you do not electrify. That would be unserious. It is through electrification that we can save the climate and at the same time continue to develop as a country. Madam President, I would like When I listen to the Government's response, however, I am a little worried. My interpellation is about the fact that there are major problems here and today in the power system. My questions are about how the Government should deal with the problems that exist here and today. The answers I am being given relate partly to what is happening today. There are also a lot of things that the Government wants to do and that in many cases are good, but they will be done in the future. Of course, we need to be long-term, but it is right now that we have problems. We have an exceptional situation. The system doesn't work the way it's supposed to. Let me give you some concrete examples of my assertion that the system is not working as it should today. Swedish power grids have introduced import stops and export restrictions to cope with normal operation. They rely on so-called counter-trade, which they just a year ago – not very long ago – said they only resort to if they have a situation that can have very great consequences. Now this is used to maintain normal operation in the system. The lack of understanding that I feel the Government shows that the system here and today faces major challenges and has major problems is what makes me worried. We need a system that delivers and meets the requirements, criteria and objectives that we have for energy policy, not only in the future when some reforms have been made, but here and now. The Government said something in its response that I would like to have a clarification about. He claimed that Swedish power networks have no plans to limit more than allowed. In my view, it is a misconception of the Government, Madam President. Swedish power networks have announced that several lines should be limited to less than 70 per cent capacity. I wonder if the Government is not aware of this, and if he is aware of it, I wonder whether he intends to act in any way on it. I would also like to take this opportunity to answer the question of whether Sweden complies with the solidarity clause. I'd say no. We do not do that when we have as great a problem as we have today. We can't be sure that our system can withstand major interference. Then we will not comply with the solidarity clause.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-509	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell! With regard to the 70%, this is a message that Swedish power grids provide. Ultimately, neither I nor Joar Forssell supervises this, but the Energy Market Inspectorate does. So far, they have had no comments. Let us see if they will have any comments. On the European issue, it is in turn Acer, the European Union Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, who may have an opinion on the issue. They have had no comments on the matter. It remains to be seen whether they will have it in the future. As far as the nature of the Swedish electricity network is concerned, I can only note that when the IEA ranks the nearly 200 national electricity networks in the world, Sweden will rank one or two in the rankings. As far as the rankings in the EU are concerned, it looks much the same. If Joar Forssell claims that Sweden does not live up to the solidarity clause, no country in the EU is likely to do so. But I say the opposite: that Sweden does and that other countries do. It will have to be Joar Forssell's debate with the European authorities if he insists on this, because they have, in any case, been on the same line as I have so far.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-511	Madam President, I would like This is the best branch of Minister Anders Ygeman: to sound a little tired, calm and calm even though we have big problems. Madam President, I would like I'm glad Ygeman isn't a national team player and I'm the head of the national team. He dribbles like Ronaldinho, but there are rarely cases, because there are no answers to the questions I ask. This is about here and now. Our network and our power system have major problems. The limitations we've been talking about are forbidden, but exceptions can be made. When you look at the situation now you can say that we have a patient, Sweden, who has mild cold symptoms – for a year when it is not pandemic then maybe. There should be little concern about this. But Sweden has such a big problem that we are forced to apply broad spectrum antibiotics to mild cold symptoms because our system cannot cope with the situation. If we take such strong measures as we have now taken, and as it seems that we are going to use them again this summer, in a situation where the system should not be very strained and when the situation is normal, it is obviously alarming here and now. Some of the different issues can be dealt with in depth. After all, I have asked quite a few questions in my interpellation, Madam President. One of those things, which the Government also likes to talk about, is the long-awaited Southwest link and the strengthening of Sweden's transmission capacity. This is of course long awaited, but according to SVK itself this transfer will be limited from 1,200 megawatts to 800 megawatts. The changes in flows resulting from the closure of the reactors and the new cables mean that the link cannot be used as planned. The Government highlights various ideas on what measures could be taken, but there are quite a lot of problems linked to one after one of those ideas. The government, like Ronaldinho, is very cleverly trying to dribble away these issues. He does so by talking about things that will happen in the future. But the problems are here and now. When I have been in talks with the Swedish power grid, they themselves have meant that it is also necessary for planned production in southern Sweden to be able to solve the situation we have right now. One thing that could actually have been done here and now is to ensure that Ringhals 1 restarts to solve the acute problems. Then we can have long and many discussions on how to solve the long - term problems. I think we share a lot about the importance of electrification. But we obviously do not share the view that we have major problems in the system here and now which must be resolved by action now and not then.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-517	Madam President, I would like Let me first thank Joar Forssell for the praise. Ronaldinho! That's not a bad illustration. Unfortunately, I believe that my modest efforts as a football player do not really meet those qualities. But I thank and lick myself, even if I don't really get it together with being calm, calm and tired. It wasn't my picture of Ronaldinho. But we can have different views on Brazilian football. Let me also say that I answered Joar Forssell's questions with yes and no. It's not dribble. However, Joar Forssell does not like the answers, but that is another matter. The answer is simple. There are supervisory authorities to ensure this. So far they have had the same opinion as Swedish power grids. Should they take a different view, we will have to come back to that point. But I don't see it coming. Joar Forssell is talking about rebooting Ringhals here and now. But Ringhals cannot be restarted here and now, even if the owners would like it and if all other legislation was in place. This is because the decision to close Ringhals was taken in 2015 and a number of investments that would be required for continued operation have not been made. According to the company, it would require substantial investments to make a meaningful continuation of operations. Then they choose the owners to invest in other facilities. We should nevertheless remember that these are facilities that were decided to build in the 60's and which were built and started in the mid 70's. I don't think Joar Forssell's family has any car left from 1976. I don't think he's still got the 1976 TV. I really don't think he has any phone left from 1976. It goes without saying that it is better to invest in modern plants if you are to make such investments, regardless of what you think of the power race as such. I think the same applies to Joar Forssell. If he had a pile of money ahead of him, he would surely invest it in nuclear power, but in modern nuclear power and not in nuclear power from the 1960s. I think I have answered the questions raised by Joar Forssell.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-523	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers I have received so far. The parable of Ronaldinho is possibly a little limp. It's about how well Ygeman dribbles away his questions, not how many goals he makes. In that case, his efforts are probably more modest than Ronaldinhos. Madam President, I would like It is telling, however, that we are using very strong measures in a situation where the situation is actually normal. I say again what I have said before: we have a patient, Sweden, whose system we are debating here today and who has some mild cold symptoms. But we're forced to deploy broad spectrum antibiotics. Of course it has to be seen as alarming. The powerful measures that we use should be able to be used when it really gets hot, so to speak, when it really is an emergency. They should not have to be used in a situation like this, which is actually normal. The restrictions that we have debated here earlier today are prohibited, but exceptions can be made. As the Government says, we have authorities to make those assessments. That's correct. The valves that exist for the measures that I have written about in the interpellation are there because when the patient is really ill, not because the patient has mild cold symptoms – not because it is normal operation, but because when things go really wrong. Then they should be used, but Ygeman has no answer as to why they need to be used now.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-527	Madam President, I would like Should you send an analogy tip to Joar Forssell it will be to go back in history to Garrincha, also a famous Brazilian dribbler, whose left leg was seven centimeters shorter than his right leg, which made him always lean a little to the left. Perhaps that would be appropriate in the further debates. Unfortunately, he died far too early and was also alcoholic, which may make that name less well used as the epithet of one's political opponents. I think, however, that Joar Forssell is as bad as pharmacists as he is with putting football on people. If this is what Joar Forssell is saying, that we have a sick electrical system, he will still be guilty of the answer. He has had some posts to explain why our electrical system is ranked about one of the best in the world. If it is as Joar Forssell has expressed in this debate, why is our system ranked one of the best electricity systems in the European Union? If it is the case that Sweden would violate the solidarity clause, is it any country that follows it and so on? The truth is that Sweden has a fundamentally good position. We have a more strained situation now than a few years ago. But that's because we're in the middle of a green transition. Just as Joar Forssell was at the beginning, we are going to make a huge journey. We're going to take the height of a double electricity generation, a triple line expansion and halved lead times. It is clear that in the huge transformation process, the situation in the transition period is a little strained. However, this is a challenge that we must take in order to cope with the climate and cope with the future and contribute to Europe's climate change transition. There I am convinced that Joar Forssell and the Liberals have important contributions to make to the climate work.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-533	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me if I am prepared to allow private operators to take over the operation of Bromma airport. Thomas Morell has also asked the Minister for Economic Affairs whether the Government and the Minister are prepared to transfer Bromma airport to private owners in order for the operation to continue. The interpellation to the Minister for Enterprise has been handed over to me. I choose to respond jointly to the two interpellations. The spread of the new coronavirus and covid-19 disease has affected air travel dramatically. Air traffic has fallen sharply. Even before the pandemic, we saw a reduced flight. We are still in a position where the prospects are uncertain. Both reduced flight and covid-19 affect the aviation market, both in the short and long term. Swedavia AB is tasked with operating airport operations at the ten airports included in the national base supply of airports decided by the Government. The company also has the task of actively participating in the development of the transport sector within the framework of commercialism and contributing to the achievement of the transport policy objectives decided by the Riksdag. Swedavia may not close or transfer, without the approval of the Government, any of the airports included in the national base supply of airports decided by the Government. Swedavia AB has carried out an impact assessment of the continued operation of Bromma Airport under current market conditions and from the company's mission and business perspective. The company has presented its conclusions. According to Swedavia's assessment, under current market conditions it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. The impact of Swedavia's assessment is currently being analysed in the Government Office. It is therefore not appropriate to discuss the form of operation of Bromma airport.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-538	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! Bromma airport is extremely important for the whole country. Bromma airport is an important part of our infrastructure in order to be able to live and operate throughout the country. Bromma is not a matter for Stockholm alone. It is just as important for those who live up in Norrland or further down in Sweden. In the answer, the Government says: It has done so because of the pandemic. We are still in a position where the prospects are uncertain. Both reduced flight and covid-19 affect the aviation market, both in the short and long term. That's true. But has the government lost faith in the future? There's a life coming after the corona. It is fully vaccinated. We hope, of course, that vaccination will mean going back to some sort of normal state in our society. When we go back to normal, it is extremely important that our infrastructure works. This applies regardless of whether we are talking about shipping, rail, road or air traffic. Bromma has an extremely important part in the re-launch of the country, for several reasons. One is, of course, that those who make use of flights, entrepreneurs and whoever it may be, to get to Stockholm quickly and easily over the day landing at an airport close to the city as they arrive at Bromma. But there is another part of this too. We are facing a change in aviation. In any case, in the short term, the regional aircraft will be powered by electricity or hydrogen. Here we have every opportunity in the world to develop this technology and be the outstanding technology country that we have been for many years. It once laid the foundation for one of our most successful inventors, Gustaf Dalén, when he invented the cutting light and the sun valve to guide sailors. We've been an outstanding tech-savvy people of all time. Of course we should push it forward. Bromma has an important part in being able to participate in developing future flights, what we are talking about will be in 10–20 years. Why not take advantage of that opportunity? The type of air traffic that goes on Bromma are propeller machines. They're a little slower at the start and a little slower at the approach. Therefore, they find it difficult to fit into the chateaux that are in the morning and evening at Arlanda Airport, where a considerably heavier air traffic goes. It is mainly jet-powered machines that go up and down. Here the government has the world's chance to really develop a fossil-free flight in the future. Bromma can be used for this as a test bench for regional traffic. The machines we are talking about will essentially fly regionally. I honestly can't believe you're missing that chance.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-548	Madam President and the Government. I've had this discussion with the Government before about Bromma. The position of the Center Party on the Bromma issue is well known. We're really because Bromma's still here. The arguments are the same as when we discussed this in September 2020. Bromma is the centre of regional aviation. It is not a Stockholm issue in the first place. It is the fastest and most efficient airport for air travellers. The proximity to Stockholm center is unbeatable. It is important because it favours competition among air carriers. There are very large investments around Bromma that have just been completed on type 1 1⁄2 billion, and the cross-track is almost finished. For the future, this electric flight is perfectly suited, and at the same time we know that it is important for social aviation. These are famous discussions. Since I last debated this with the Minister for Infrastructure, there have been four or five factors. First of all, ACR has proved willing to operate the airport. It is a heavy company with a good ownership base that really knows the industry. They have also had heavy arguments about a more effective organization structure than today. The second thing that has happened is that the airline Bra has made a trial of Arlanda and concluded that it actually does not work. Essentially, it's because it gets too crowded in peak time. It doesn't work with that setup. Good is now about to re-established on Bromma in May, which I look forward to with great joy. For example, they will resume the line to Gotland in early May. The third thing I see is that it is also quite clear that there is broad popular support for maintaining airport structures and flights. Not least, this was shown at the referendum in Västerås, where 80 percent voted in favour of keeping the airport there, even though it is only an hour from Stockholm by train. Kalmar has been equally clear. That's where you want Bromma to stay. I also see that the pandemic has probably played a role. ACR points out that at the 16 airports in charge of air traffic control, there has been only a 12% drop in air traffic movements, not the number of passengers but the number of air movements. Commercial traffic has been replaced by sick transport. I believe that the pandemic really shows the need for a comprehensive airport structure for the future. Then Bromma is like the hub for it. Not only have we talked about commercial flights, but we are talking about sick trips, among other things. My question and thought are: why can the government not soon land in a position? I can see that the industry is not doing well because the government is not responding. I would have liked to have seen Minister Eneroth make himself clear and say what the government wants. There is a very comprehensive belief in the future in the industry, despite the fact that these are tough times right now. That's it. But the uncertainty surrounding Bromma actually puts a brake on the industry's development unnecessarily.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-557	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the last question. In fact, uncertainty applies to the whole flight. It's about airports all over the world. This applies to airlines, and it applies to flights as such. Not long ago, the Finnish Transport Administration found that all scheduled flights between countries have in principle ceased. I think, with all due respect to Lars Thomsson, that we must realise that what we are facing has that scope. It is a situation where commercial flights from Gotland have ceased, as Lars Thomsson well knows, and where we from the government have had to go in with state resources and procure flights so that there will be no air traffic at all. We have had to impose a public service obligation to ensure that Gotland, or for that matter Norrland, should have flights at all when private operators, commercial airlines, in particular, could not carry it. In this way, we have also been able to secure patient transport and ambulance flights, that is, by purchasing flights with government money. Speaking of whether we should have private or public operators operating airports, I can mention that it is with public funds that we have now had to go in and secure the air capacity in Sweden with resources to Swedavia, to the regional airports. , to ensure that we have an air infrastructure. In addition, we have gone in with efforts to ensure 27 emergency airports, of which 17 are temporary. During this time, the government, with the approval of the Riksdag, has had to make great efforts to maintain flight capacity in the first place, because aviation has not been able to function. In this situation, of course, I share the view that it is important also to look forward and to be a technology optimist. Once the flight is able to restart, it should be possible to do so in a sustainable way. However, with all due respect for the commitment and interest, I believe at this point that talking about privatising large parts of aviation may not be the first and most prioritised effort, especially when we see that commercial operators are currently having major concerns about profitability and sustainability. Both air operators and airports are maintained in many parts of Europe and the world with public funds. It's a crisis. It's a pandemic. I think that both debaters need to realise that what we are doing right now is maintaining, with public funds, at least socially important aviation when commercial aviation is not working. One consequence of what Thomas Morell is proposing is that the national base supply will be reduced. It will be the effect if Swedavia takes office. Then my question to the Swedish Democrats is whether you think that the national basic supply should be reduced. In that case, it is an important position on the part of the Swedish Democrats. Finally, as far as future flights are concerned, I am a tech optimist. Thomas Morell and I have had several debates about just confidence in technology. I was with Prince Daniel when Heart Aerospace introduced and inaugurated his electric motor, which will be able to operate a 19-person electric plane. Today, there are electric airplanes for mainly four people, but it is therefore within the reach of developing electric flights. I am certainly a tech optimist, and I see the conditions. In fact, if the flight is to restart, it must be done by biofuels and by electric flights. That's how we're gonna create the future flight.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-567	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is a private operator who is willing to take over the operation of Bromma, and there is also a report that looks at Bromma's future. However, it has been classified by the government, and I cannot quite understand why. In my world, it's about trying to cover something up. Sure, it's really important with new technology. If we look at the commercial traffic, Bromma is operated by aircraft of the ATR-72 type. That plane has a cruising speed of about 500 kilometers per hour and a cruising altitude of 7 600 meters. So you're below what you call the high altitude effect. In addition, the aircraft can go on up to 50% biofuel. It is a good transition to more climate-neutral aircraft. If we talk about electric airplanes, we can say that they are not further away than that we can almost touch them today. I am convinced that we will see an extremely rapid development on that side. And Bromma can be a hub in that development. It is a city-by-city airport with a unique profile. Although it is a pandemic today, there is extensive aviation activity on Bromma. There is a lot of transportation to health care, ambulance flights of various kinds and also organ transport. There are also police and even fire planes if needed. If you move to Arlanda it will be difficult to maintain this type of traffic. So there are several things that are important to take into account, and one misses a little chance if one is not more active on the issue. There is one player who is willing to take over and has, of course, made a commercial assessment of whether it is profitable. As I have said before, this is a question of Sweden and no question of Stockholm. There will be some time after the pandemic, and then we must be able to start the infrastructure in the air too. Bromma has an extremely important role to play there. Much of the regional traffic in Sweden goes to Bromma and did so even before the pandemic broke out. Bromma is important for social aviation and for flights that are of critical importance to society. What happens, for example, if you need to evacuate important social functions from Stockholm if Arlanda is down and Bromma is not available? Then it's a long way to an airport where you can solve it. According to Trafikverket, Bromma is of national interest. Bromma is close to Karolinska University Hospital, and it can be crucial for people's lives. Bromma is better for electric flights than Arlanda, because Arlanda has the heavy traffic, i.e. the large Airbus machines and Boeing machines. Bromma is better for domestic flights and can change climate faster than Arlanda. And Bromma can be run cheaper, better and more efficient. Bromma is, as I said, a city-by-city airport. The airport itself can be operated completely fossil-free in the future. Then it is important to get the aircraft to become fossil-free. Here there is an opportunity for the government to make an active choice. You can start by releasing this report, so that we in Parliament can read what it says and make wise decisions.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-576	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers and the discussion, Minister Eneroth! I share a lot of what you're saying. I understand that the aviation industry today is publicly maintained. That is exactly how it is, but it is also quite natural in a pandemic. I also agree that you should really be a tech optimist. There is every possibility that it will go very well for flights forward, both domestic and international flights. What worries me, however, is the government's lack of clarity on the issues. I have been involved in setting up the climate-smart aviation network in the Riksdag and running it as one of three. We know electric flights will be here soon. I was also in Gothenburg. We know the biojet will be here soon. We know that e-fuel is a bit ahead. We know hydrogen is a bit forward. But all these four tracks are actually soon here. However, if traffic is to continue, it is important that there is an airport structure and that there are still airports. If you're going to succeed, it's very smart, says the Center Party, to have an elaborate flight strategy. What concerns me and, I believe, indeed large parts of the industry is the government's lack of clarity. I do not know if Minister Bolund acts for the government or as a spokesperson, but he is very clear that we are going to phase out Bromma prematurely. Then I have two questions: Is the Government behind Bolund's announcement that there should be an early liquidation of Bromma? And why isn't there a flight strategy? Surely we have every reason in the world to develop a flight strategy, as important as aviation will be in the future with the new technologies.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-581	Madam President, I would like To Lars Thomsson I would like to say that we have a flight strategy. It has been decided for a long time, and it is now in force. It is a strategy adopted a number of years ago. On the other hand, I believe that the pandemic, given how it has hit aviation, means that many previous positions may need to be reconsidered. In the past, it was a debate that essentially focused on the conversion of aviation and its ability to become sustainable and on the use of airspace, not least with the increasing frequency of traffic across Europe. One should be aware that the discussion that I now have at the Council of Ministers and in other contexts is rather about how essential basic functions can be ensured. How are we going to ensure that we have aviation operators in the future that are able to re-start? In fact, that is how bad the situation is for many of the aviation players. The difficult balance is to make the right efforts now to secure socially important functions, such as public service obligations for us to have flights from Gotland when no commercial operators can or want to conduct such an activity, and at the same time, of course, create conditions and hope and future faith in an industry that is important for Sweden and for the world. That was probably one of the reasons why I chose to attend the presentation of Heart Aerospace and the electric motor of an electric airplane for 19 people. I myself, with the background I have been involved in the development and industrial development of aviation. This is industrial policy, where Sweden also has strong opportunities in terms of the technological development of aviation. The combination of being a country with high ambitions in the field of climate change – we will be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation – and being an industrial nation with good conditions for technological development is almost the best. We now see in the automotive industry that we have had a quick transition to electrification. I hope and believe that we will also see similar developments in industrial clusters in Sweden, not least with regard to aviation, but perhaps also with regard to maritime transport. As far as Thomas Morell is concerned, there are two things I note. Firstly, Thomas Morell does not answer the basic question. Since the interpellation is about whether Bromma should be taken over by a private operator, if I interpret Thomas Morell's right, it means that the Swedish Democrats are proposing that the government base supply be reduced. Is that correct? Secondly, there is talk of classified persons. I think we should be aware that Swedavia operates in a competitive market and has developed a basis for market assessment of Bromma's development. I can understand that a company, as this is, should not disclose all its information in public to the rest of the market. I suppose that could be a reason, if not everything is public. These are, as I have said, matters that fall within the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs. I'm not responsible for Swedavia. But I don't like the suspicion Thomas Morell is engaged in by claiming it's a secret. There are certainly good reasons in that case for not being able to publish basic material on one of the State's companies' internal financial activities. In fact, I think most people understand that.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-591	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. In fact, I tried twice to put the interpellation to the Minister for Economic Affairs, but it slipped over to Tomas Eneroth instead. So I have made valiant attempts to get an answer from the Minister for Economic Affairs, but it has not succeeded. Yeah, what happens if you put Bromma down? This will definitely reduce government supply. This will reduce supply at all. If there's a private player running Bromma, there's still one choice left. I do not understand how it would be possible to maintain government supply if we were to close down. Nor do I understand why we do not take the opportunity to take Bromma as a starting point for technological development and make sure that we really are driving forward climate-smart flights in the future. We are talking about regional traffic, short-distance traffic in Sweden. With the machines now under way, we could cover large parts of the country and fly completely fossil-free. Pending that, we can fly with somewhat slower propeller carts, at slightly lower altitude, driven by biofuels. Then we can manage a lot of the environmental objectives anyway. I cannot understand, for my life, why one is so hesitant to take a step forward on this issue and to show clearly what ambitions one has. There is much talk from the government about being the first fossil-free welfare society. Yes, but when you really have the chance to show how we can maintain a well-functioning air traffic regionally in the country, you stand and veddle. You don't really know how to deal with the issue. It is quite clear that it is the partner in the government who is in charge of this issue.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-596	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Swedish democrats cannot and do not want to tell us whether they want to reduce the basic supply. It is, however, a precondition, because it is what you indirectly say you want if you want a different operator from the state that operates the business. That's the first thing. The second is that I am a little surprised by how the Swedish Democrats and Thomas Morell describe climate commitment. Sweden is at the forefront of the change in aviation. We've got the lead shirt. It is Sweden and I who at the Icaos General Assembly in Montreal as the only country demanded that we be allowed to tax fossil aviation fuel, precisely because, in the same way as in the case of the vehicle fleet, we should use the tax instrument in a way that rewards biofuels or electrification. There, the Swedish Democrats think something quite different. In that case, you think that there should still be a level playing field, whether it be biofuels, electrification, diesel or kerosene. It would be good if the Swedish democrats developed a climate policy for aviation as well. But it is no secret that the interest of Sweden's democrats in climate issues is limited, given that the important efforts are reduced petrol tax, reduced air tax and large, dramatic cuts in the climate allowance. Instead, we are investing in developing and supporting the conversion of aviation with money for the development of electric flights. It comes from the State Programme Elis, which deals with the conversion of aviation, with an investigation and support for the conditions for biofuels for aviation and with a European and international process of finding fuels or instruments that allow biofuels to be used and to tax them less than fossil aviation fuel. Not least, we have made proposals nationally and want environmentally responsible take-off and landing fees. We take responsibility for the conversion of aircraft.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-601	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to defend the adopted mobility package. In the summer of 2020, a historic decision was taken with the amendment of certain rules on road transport when the so-called mobility package was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council. The reform, preceded by more than three years of negotiations, means better working conditions for professional drivers, fair competition and increased road safety in the European transport sector. For the government, which has been the leader in the work on the mobility package, it was an important victory to get the new rules in place. The trade union movement and the Swedish haulage industry have stood united behind our line. The benefits of the mobility package are now threatened by the fact that seven Member States in fifteen different cases in the European Court of Justice have requested the annulment of all or part of the reform. If these countries succeed in their intentions, we will miss the opportunity to promote fair conditions and fair competition for the whole transport industry. The Government has therefore decided that Sweden should actively defend the mobility package in all cases before the EU Court of Justice. Together with the Swedish trade union movement and the haulage industry, we will now once again fight for fair conditions and fair competition in the transport sector.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-605	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! I'm gonna have to correct the history story a little bit. In fact, it was Peter Lundgren who started this work in the EU and who, together with Jens Nilsson, laid the foundations for what later became a decision. It's extremely important. It was a long way up to the decision being made. There were many negotiations and a lot of compromise, but this mobility package finally landed. The mobility package is based on the unhealthy competition that has arisen in the transport industry, which is engaged in social dumping. You don't follow the rules on cabotage or combined transport. They therefore operate freight in a host Member State, as they call it, without having legal support for it. This has meant the permanent establishment of vehicles and drivers in countries other than their home state, months at a time. It has even gone so far as to have mobile tyre workshops here in Sweden. They bring here fuel that they smuggle into Sweden and supply these cars. The real black side of this business is on the smuggling side, where drugs, alcohol, weapons and explosives come in. We also have trafficking. Last week, the police reported that there were major attacks on sex trafficking. It is usually young girls from Romania who are smuggled into the country. It is this business that is the dark part of this illegal traffic that exists in Sweden, and that is what has been the basis for getting a tightening up. The mobility package came into being to steer this up so that the criminal networks do not have the free market by simply taking command of logistics flows, for that is what they are doing. They use logistics flows for their own operations. Perhaps you saw on Mission review last week about the problem of stealing clothes from these gift jars where people donate clothes to needy. The clothes are stolen by gangs and then transported out of the country by truck and sold on the black market in other countries. This has been given a free breeding ground because the controls have not been carried out. It has not been followed up and understood the importance of complying with existing legislation. That's why I'm a little worried. After all, the government has not shown the momentum when it comes to strengthening controls in Sweden in actual action. What, then, is it that says that the government would pursue these issues at European level? You need to rake the manage here at home. But here we have a control activity that has been on a sloping level for many years. Since I left the traffic police in 2007, the operation has been largely minimised. On my unit, where I was employed, we had three lucky teams and nine in external service in each lucky team. Today there are a total of three heavy-duty traffic police officers. This makes it extremely difficult to access this kind of black market in the transport industry. If the mobility package is really to be given the power it is supposed to be, the government must be more at the tip of its toes on this issue.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-616	Madam President, I would like I must say that I am concerned about both Thomas Morell's history and the perception of reality on this issue. Jens Nilsson made incredible efforts to deal with and draw attention to the issue of poor working conditions for drivers and the conditions in the transport industry following the neo-liberal liberalisation wave that existed, where it was all about free transport at the lowest price. It created an unreasonable situation and unfair competition in the transport market. This process led to a discussion in which we fought in several countries for the Swedish haulage industry and for the working conditions of those who work in the transport industry. On the night between 3 and 4 December, I negotiated the final package, the mobility package, which has now become a reality and which provides completely different conditions for control and order in professional traffic throughout Europe. The problem for Thomas Morell is that Peter Lundgren and the Swedish Democrats at European level, in the European Parliament, are in the same group – ECR – where, for example, the Polish party Law and Justice are leading. They are the ones who now want to stop this. They are the ones who are now intervening in the European Court of Justice and want to lift the whole mobility package. How do Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats act when your own group in the European Parliament wants to stop the mobility package? Has Thomas Morell acted at European level to ensure that the mobility package, which is so important to Sweden's haulage industry and haulage companies, will be able to live on? We act as government. We're intervening. Sweden has rarely acted so strongly, because we are not going to accept that such an important reform is halted by countries obstrusing in the way that the Swedish Democratic Cooperation Party Law and Justice is now doing. In the same way, it is at national level. Thomas Morell often praises the government for the efforts we have made with complaints, with fines and with increased controls, not least by the police for foreign commercial traffic. This also applies to our efforts to investigate and perhaps get a professional traffic inspection on the spot. But the truth is, Thomas Morell wants to cooperate with his old party of the Moderates. He wants Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister, without, as I understand it, making any demands on what a moderate-led government should do for efforts in terms of professional traffic. I have asked the question before, and I ask the question again: will the Swedish democrats make any demands on a moderate-led government, should the accident occur, to promote the conditions of professional drivers, to safeguard the mobility package and Swedish haulage industry, to ensure that we do not again get, as it was when the Moderates previously held the government power, a liberalised transport market where the lowest price and worst working conditions were the ones that created opportunities for profits for a number of companies? The questions remain: Where is the list? Will you make demands? The government has been pushing through reforms throughout this period to strengthen Swedish haulage industry, to create the right conditions in the transport industry. Now, together with the haulage industry, the trade union movement is to ensure that posting takes place, so that there are fair conditions from day one. Thomas Morell's great concern is that both in Sweden and at European level you are working together with forces who want something quite different from what Thomas Morell says they stand for. It'll be troubling.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-625	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I can reassure Tomas Eneroth with one thing. Let me sort out the concepts. Peter Lundgren is the one who will fight hard for the mobility package to remain, no matter what the rest of the party group says. Peter will stand firm in this view, namely that the mobility package should remain. Will we be making demands of a moderate government? I will demand that there be order and order on the road. The Government does not have to be in the least worried, because I will be pushing the issue entirely regardless of who is Prime Minister. It's crystal clear. It is extremely rare for me to commend the government in terms of classing and ordering responsibility. I've criticized. There's a difference. Clarification only lasts 36 hours. There are several examples where they wait out the 36 hours. They take a reduced weekly rest period, and then they pull as soon as the clamp goes off. Then there was the ordering responsibility. Two judgments have been appealed. There's not even a final judgment on any case. Yet the customer responsibility was assumed in 2018 – so it has been ineffective. Of the 100 cabotage million contributed by the government, the police can account for 2.6. Where the other money has gone, no one knows. When we see how it works and how few control officers there are, we are still impressed by the few that are left. They do an outstanding job in Västerås, Eskilstuna, Sundsvall and Helsingborg. There is also a police officer in Gothenburg who does a great job. However, this does not meet the requirements of the Control Directive. It states that vehicles should be checked every day and every day of the year on the main road network. How do you figure this out when there are about 200 people to dispose of? How are they gonna do this 24 hours a day, every day of the week, the whole year? It's all about the big road network. It's not working. That is why I am concerned about whether the government will act to ensure that the mobility package is maintained, when the situation at home is not even cleared up to strengthen control activities. Yes, there will be an investigation on April 30th. It will certainly amuse me several days later. But it won't help. There must be a control activity that works until the investigation has landed and there is something else. Then you cannot let the business fall, but it must work today and tomorrow. I'll give you an example in my closing speech that shows how bad it is.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-634	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone following the debate missed what Thomas Morell has just confirmed. That the individual Peter Lundgren will fight may have happened, but the party and the group he belongs to do everything they can to stop the mobility package. That's the reality. 15 cases are now running in the European Court of Justice, which wants to lift all or part of the mobility package. The Swedish government is acting. What do the Swedish Democrats do? Thomas Morell says that he himself, regardless of government, will fight for good conditions in the transport industry. I don't doubt it. I appreciate that Thomas Morell has his own individual commitment. But Thomas Morell is part of the Swedish Democrats, who will not ask the Moderates for a single question when it comes to the haulage industry or the transport workers' conditions for Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister one day. A vote for Thomas Morell can still mean that we get a development in Sweden where a moderate-led government does not make efforts that create the right conditions in the transport industry. This was the case before 2014. Then there was no clapping. At the time, there were no sanctions to the extent that they exist today. Then there was no ordering responsibility or extra earmarked resources to the police for cabotage checks. At the time, there was no government that ran questions at European level about a mobility package, conditions and conditions of competition in the transport industry. That's the big difference. After 2014, we received a Social Democratic-led government. Together with the trade union movement and the transport industry, we have systematically pursued a development to improve conditions at European level and in Sweden for the transport industry. It is a long journey with tough competition and tough conditions. But now there are clamping, fines, ordering responsibility and extra resources to the police. And now there is a mobility package in place, which I was involved in negotiating the night between 3 and 4 December. Now that we are in the position to implement this, make sure that the package really applies, there are a number of Member States that run 15 cases to stop it. Driving is the party Law and Justice – Thomas Morell's and the Swedish Democrats' cooperation party in Europe. The basic question goes back to Thomas Morell. Now spend the time explaining why the Swedish Democrats think it is reasonable that Law and Justice should stop the process of the mobility package, or in what way a moderate-led government will promote the haulage industry or transport workers' conditions in Sweden.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-641	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Tomas Eneroth. There is no doubt about what a vote on Thomas Morell will mean. It will be a struggle for order in the Swedish transport industry. There is no doubt about this. We're not going to mix up the cards. We can focus on what it looks like here at home, where the government is responsible. Here the police stopped a foreign vehicle where both the tachograph and the Adblue equipment were manipulated. Adblue has something to do with the exhaust gas cleaning. When manipulated, there will be significantly higher emissions of both nitrogen oxides and particles. What consequences did this have? Well, the police seized the car to investigate whether the equipment was in the vehicle or not. The prosecutor lifted the decision and claimed that there was no legal support. You get worried, to say the least, when a prosecutor says that there is no legal support. It is only possible to read inside the EU regulation, in the sixth chapter: It says it's forbidden. It also states that, during the verification, certified control officers have found sufficient evidence leading to a reasonable suspicion of fraud, they shall have the authority to send the vehicle to an authorised workshop for further tests. All of this and much more is in the legislation, but we do not get it in Sweden. I've been going on about this in the pulpit several times, but the government is guilty of the answer. When are you planning on getting a control operation that works and prosecuting the person who commits a crime?
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-648	Madam President, I would like I've answered the questions many times. We're adding resources to the police. There are more cops than ever. We are earmarking resources for controls on the road, and we have introduced squabbling, sanctioning fees, ordering responsibility and a host of other things. I think most people are familiar with that. But Mr Morell once again escapes responsibility for what it means to be a Member of Parliament and to represent a party. This is clearly the demand list of the Swedish democrats for a moderate-led government. There is no – not a single – requirement to take responsibility for the mobility package, for truck drivers to have decent working conditions, so that Swedish haulage industry will not again suffer from dumped conditions and unreasonable social conditions for those who drive foreign trucks in Sweden. Since Thomas Morell has not mentioned on one occasion that the Swedish Democrats will make any such demands, a vote on the Swedish Democrats is obviously something that can mean that we get a moderate-led government that gets a free pass on transport issues. This makes it very easy to see that if you want to have decent conditions in the transport sector and good conditions for those who work as professional drivers and for Swedish haulage industry, then the alternative is very clear. It is with a Social Democratic-led government that we have made sure to change reality and get more controls and better conditions at European level and in Sweden. This while the Swedish Democrats as a party at European level cooperate with Law and Justice, who want to stop the mobility package, and in Sweden cooperate with the Moderates, who have also not pushed issues that promote the conditions of the haulage industry. That's the truth.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-652	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint and Pål Jonson have asked me several questions about road maintenance in Värmland in particular. I choose to answer the questions in a context. It is important for the government to have good accessibility throughout Sweden. It is necessary t for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country and to get a Sweden that stays together. In the national plan one for the transport infrastructure decided in 2018, the government made a record investment in road maintenance of a total of SEK 164 billion. The investments have since continued, and the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2021 has increased the allocation for road maintenance by SEK 500 million per year during the period 2021 – 2023. The focus is on the fine-mesh road network in rural areas. The Government has also implemented measures to open up a road network with higher load capacity, BK4. They have helped to increase capacity and the efficiency of transport. This creates the conditions for strengthening the competitiveness of Swedish industry, not least in Värmland. It also contributes with positive environmental impacts in terms of reduced emissions of both CO2 and air pollution. On 16 April, the Government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag with proposals for orientation and financial framework for a new national plan for the period 2022 – 2033. In order for the transport system to develop towards the transport policy objectives and contribute to the climate transition, the Government considers that major efforts are needed in terms of both managing and developing existing infrastructure and implementing new investments. In total, the planning framework is proposed to amount to SEK 799 billion, of which SEK 197 billion is allocated for road maintenance. The new framework provides for an increase in funding for road maintenance, which is needed to meet the needs of both the high and low-traffic roads. This will create the conditions for a high level of road network standards and reliability.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-656	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Eneroth. The quality of the road network varies in different parts of Sweden. Värmland, as a distinct rural county with a large base industry, is heavily dependent on a good road network. However, the Värmland road network is in terrible condition and has been so for a long time due to chronic under-financing. This is a long-term threat, not only to the competitiveness of the county's companies but also to road safety on our roads. As a road user – whether you are a truck driver, a regular motorist or a cyclist – today you are terrified of driving down a pothole, which is everywhere. We have physically bad roads with poor occupancy and weak bearing capacity. Cars are breaking down. Trucks don't dare meet. It is also necessary to be vigilant if the road user is able to drive out a bit in order to facilitate overtaking. The bearing class is reduced on many bridges, which reduces the accessibility of goods transport in particular. The BK4 bet shifts money to individual larger bridges. It is certainly a laudable effort in itself, but if it is to have an effect, much more money needs to be spent. Madam President, I would like Industry along the fine-meshed road network is hit hard when speeds are lowered. When the standard becomes too bad, the speed is often reduced from 90 to 80. Over the past year, 300 miles [130 km] of state roads have reduced their speed due to lack of maintenance. Värmland is no exception. It is a rather sad fact for seven years of Social Democratic government. When Tomas Eneroth st year at the press conference after the infrastructure bill has been presented and howl communicates, Big g er than Bide n 中 is a Chinese reptrick in the higher school, for b akom the venture – which counts on 2021's monetary value in the bill and 2017's in the focus paper – there are no answers to how to catch up with the under-financing of 105 billion in the current plan one or the 66 billion in maintenance debt for rail and road. Instead, the government puts on its waste pants and chooses to proceed with high-speed trains at a cost of at least 300 billion, probably another 100 billion. No, Madam President, this is not responsible. Minister Eneroth is not the boy with the gold pants, so his policy must be called into question. Politics is not that, as we say in Värmland, I ô ve and I ô ve. Politics is to choose and to take responsibility. We Moderates choose maintenance of road and rail, freight and commuting that builds jobs and growth and 250 kilometres per hour as long-term goal for the whole of Sweden. We want to continue with Oslo – Stockholm and strengthen the transition from fossil to fossil-free. All in one, we can do because we don't want to build new main roads for super fast trains between three big cities. As a moderate politician from Värmland, I am proud to say that we prioritise good set to our companies, commuters on our roads and travel time to our most important trading partner Norway. This is more important than some people going on trains very fast between Stockholm and Gothenburg in 20 years. For me, this is both a question of freedom and a question of justice. All of Sweden and Värmland will live. The government's investment in fast trains should not be at the expense of rural survival.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-665	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for the answer to the interpellation that Marléne Lund Kopparklint and I have given! As I said, it touches on the lack of quality of the Värmland road network. This is a growing social problem in Värmland but also throughout Sweden. We have built up a huge maintenance debt in the area of infrastructure. Sweden is a large elongated country, and it places high demands on an infrastructure in all its parts. Madam President, I would like The Director General of Trafikverket, Lena Erixon, warned some time ago that we are basically at the same crossroads today when it came to maintenance of the road that we stood for 20 years ago when it came to rail. But the consequences if we do not tackle the lack of maintenance of the road will be much greater and more serious. Basically, this is all about 90% of all journeys carried out going on road and on wheels. We also know that demand for the transport of goods will more than double over the next few decades. So, Madam President, there are strong reasons for taking Lena Erixon's warning very seriously and investing considerably more in road maintenance than is being done today. The Minister for Infrastructure mentions some of these initiatives. My assessment is that they are inadequate – an assessment that I also share with the Swedish Transport Administration, which points to the very large maintenance debt we have in terms of road. Madam President, I would like Of course, the quality of the road network varies in different parts of the country, just as Marléne Lund Kopparklint said. But one can say with great certainty that the quality of the road network in Värmland is significantly worse than in many other parts of the country. Every year the Association of Motor Drivers evaluates the quality of the road network in 21 different counties. Unfortunately, I have to say that our own county of Värmland is at the bottom; we commute between being third worst and sixth worst, at best. We have simply had a great deal of trouble for a long time in terms of road maintenance, and, Madam President, this also has consequences, of course, for road safety. An uneven surface means less contact between road and tyre, which results in a reduced grip on the road. The risk of single accidents is greatly increased when roads are uneven. One can unfortunately also see in the statistics that Värmland stands out in these contexts. I will also say that, as in the rest of the country, the figures have fallen slightly over time even if they went up in 2018. But we have proportionally more serious accidents in Värmland than in the rest of the country. On the one hand, it is of course about the quality of the surface layer, on the other hand, which is serious, about the lack of meeting separation. We know that there is an immediate link – with meeting separation there are fewer serious road accidents. The county has therefore worked very hard to expand the meeting separation; it does so on roads 61, 62 and 63. However, given the financial allocation needed to expand some 150 km, it will take somewhere between 80 and 100 years with the economic plan we have today to get meeting separation on the three very central roads. As Marléne Lund Kopparklint said before, Region Värmland has said that only to maintain the functionality of the road network in the county requires 120 million, and we are now at 60 million. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure whether he shares the assessment from both Region Värmland and the Finnish Transport Administration that the efforts now being made are insufficient to maintain the quality of the road network, both in Värmland and at national level.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-675	Madam President, I would like I got into this discussion because it's about road maintenance. In this case it applies to Värmland, and I was actually driving on Värmland roads this weekend. It was not uplifting – trace formation, potholes, cracks in the way. It is a bit sad to see in such an important part of the country as Värmland, when it comes to industrial production, forest production and so on, that the road network is in such bad shape. You commute between the third and sixth worst in the survey, but there are counties in other parts of Sweden that have the same situation. Now the government has proposed increased spending on maintenance, but it does not cover the debt we have. It's still going to get worse and worse. Not taking care of the roads is kind of like not fixing the roof of your house if you have a leak. If you don't take action, the damage will be even worse. It's exactly the same with a road. If it is damaged in any way in its surface, it penetrates the road body, causing frost blasts and worse damage that requires greater effort to correct the road. Another part of this is when there is strong trace formation. In the event of precipitation, the risk of accidents increases dramatically. Even if you have good tires, it can mean that you get waterplaning. At best, you land on a fence on the side of the road. At worst, you end up on the opposite track, and you might encounter a heavy vehicle there. I am no longer a professional driver of heavy goods vehicles. But I've done it before, and I drove a lot in Värmland. The roads were bad, and you were afraid it would strike when you met someone. There were road sections where timber transport had to go in one direction upwards and in another direction downwards, precisely to minimise the risk of the vehicles hitting each other. The risks are quite large with air-springed vehicles, because they get a greater lateral movement than vehicles with leaf springs. The lack of maintenance therefore has dramatic consequences. It is not just a matter of perhaps feeling uncomfortable to travel on the road, but it leads to damage and wear on the vehicles and to an acute risk of accidents. You also get a much heavier maintenance when the road is allowed to go down that much before an action is taken and you end up in a situation where you are forced to take an emergency action. We also have another concern: it concerns those who drive two-wheeled vehicles, i.e. motorcycles. There it is even worse when the road is in bad shape, because you can simply be thrown off the road if you have bad luck. It can be a matter of cracking or that the road, so to speak, divides, and in this way parts of the bearing layer come up on the road surface. It can mean that you're going down. There are also provisional repairs that have a non-slip surface rather than the friction that can reasonably be requested. We have also had a number of such accidents, where, among other things, Trafikverket has been held accountable for a wrong method used to fix the roadway. Most often the budget variant is used when roads are to be fixed provisionally.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-683	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellants for raising a very important issue; I really must say that. Did you know – I didn't know that before – that the BK4, the effort we are making to increase the load capacity of roads so that the forest industry and business transport can take place with 74 tonnes of trucks, started in Värmland? It was there that the first BK4 roads were made, and now the government has been making major efforts on BK4 for several years. The forestry industry and many others have called for this. We thus increase the bearing capacity, and not least a county like Värmland benefits from this, along with my Småland, where the forest industry is also heavy, as well as Västerbotten and Norrbotten. This is, in fact, one of the contexts in which there is a redistribution from town to country, and it is probably about time, one might think, sometimes, that common national funds are more likely to land in rural areas. I think that's good. Similarly, it has been important for me to ensure that the efforts we have made to limit potholes and increase road maintenance in later budgets have been earmarked for rural areas. This has also come, not least, to Värmland. I think it is important, because this is a tough challenge. The reason why the roads are bad are years of underinvestment, as you also confirm. When we had a moderate government, SEK 522 billion was spent in the entire national plan. We then had a finance minister who openly said that there was no reason to invest in rail, for example. This meant that when we took office there was a need for quite large contributions – first 100 billion more in the previous national plan, where we spent a lot on railway maintenance for the railway was really worn down, but also record amounts on road maintenance. And now, in this plan, there's 176.5 billion more. These are substantial increases, because we are prioritising the Government's efforts to invest in infrastructure and maintenance before tax cuts. That is the priority we must finally have to make. The Moderates often tend to put more money into opposition, but in government there are somewhat less resources. Nevertheless, I appreciate the commitment and I think it is important that we put resources on the road. That is why we are now proposing SEK 197 billion. In their budget, the Moderates have a budget of 7 billion, which is instead being imposed on reduced petrol taxes. Wouldn't they do more good if they went to the roads? We have had a long-standing discussion on road traffic tax. Today it is a run down road between Torsby and Eda, not least because of professional traffic. We know that today the order is such that when foreign lorries from Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, Lithuania and others drive there, they do not pay a penny for the road break. That's what the residents of Torsby do. Swedish haulage companies do that, but not foreign ones. Why? Because the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and several other parties have opposed to finding a tax model such as they have in Germany, in France and in many other European countries. Why is it not reasonable that those who drive on the roads from foreign hauliers are also involved in paying for us to get an even better road standard in Sweden? I share the commitment to improving the quality of our roads and therefore have a question back to the interpellants. In that case, the Moderates should also be prepared to ensure that more people have the joy and opportunity to contribute, not least foreign haulage. With regard to the priority of reducing petrol taxes for several billions – would it not be more reasonable, not only for climate policy reasons, but also when it comes to where we prioritise spending resources, to spend this money on improving road standards in Sweden? It would be necessary not only in Värmland but also at home in Småland.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-691	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, BK4 is laudable, but in order to be effective, the Minister still has to understand that you have to spend even more money because the basis is below all criticism. When it comes to the tax on petrol, which the Minister seems to have picked up on, I can tell the Minister that we are spending 2 billion more than the government on electrification of the road network. Fossil driven cars should be removed, but the cost of the transition should be fair. Constantly increasing the tax on petrol, as the government has done, does not affect those living on Söder in Stockholm. It affects the mother in Värmland Nysäter, who must have a car to get to work and drive the children to school. It can't be that Minister Tomas Eneroth is climate-smart and rides the tax-subsidised subway while the whole price of the conversion is to be paid by my Värmland voters in the countryside. Madam President, I would like According to the Värmland Region, approximately SEK 120 million per year is required for Värmland to maintain today's functionality on the state road network. However, the available funds are only 60 million per year, leading to shortcomings in the functionality and usability of the road network. This is very worrying and is hitting the competitiveness of business in Värmland – not to mention road safety. If we do not have safe roads, Madam President, human lives are at risk, and companies choose alternatives other than Värmland because of the terrible roads and connections. Madam President, I would like Both the LRF and the transport companies have expressed concern about the deterioration in maintenance. This was reinforced when the transport companies calculated that the maintenance debt will more than double in the next ten years if nothing is done. One could imagine that the government should listen to the Finnish Transport Administration, which believes that it lacks sufficient funds and therefore only prioritises high-traffic roads. The work estimates that at least an additional 3 billion would be needed to maintain even today's standard. Talk about contributing to division between town and country! Madam President, I would like The recurring question is why Minister Eneroth does not want to invest in maintaining our roads so that they become more road-safe rather than building high-speed trains. The government does not come from the fact that it is huge sums of money that it wants to spend on high-speed trains because it requires extensive reconstruction on existing railways in order for them to manage the operation of these trains. At the same time, there is a great need to fix our roads around the country. This is totally irresponsible, Madam President, and anyone understands that. If you have an old house, you might want to renovate the roof so that it does not rain in and destroy the entire dwelling before building a pool. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to design a modern and sustainable infrastructure policy with a focus on jobs, commuting and growth which, with regard to taxpayers' money, includes all modes of transport and works throughout the country. It will be an inclusion that counteracts division between city and country. The entire country's road network is of great importance for transporting both people and goods for the foreseeable future. Therefore, roads need to be strengthened with a clear focus on maintenance, widening and safety.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-702	Madam President, I would like It is obvious, Tomas Eneroth, that we have different priorities. I note that the government is now giving high priority to high-speed trains. The Moderates do not, and therefore we also have greater scope for reform to invest in other things, which we find more worthy of. This applies, for example, to road maintenance. Tomas Eneroth also knows that during this period we spend 6 billion more than the government on road maintenance. Madam President, I would like The gas tax is a tax that with high precision lands on people living in rural areas. If you live in the countryside, you spend more than twice as much of your disposable income on fuel as if you live in the city, so it is clear that reduced petrol tax is important for people living in rural areas. Madam President, I would like A common thread through all the counties that have shortcomings in the road network is that you have very heavy truck traffic. The Moderates have also worked hard to get heavier and longer trucks. We also have a significant forest industry in Värmland; there is actually no other county in Sweden that has such a large part of the population working in the forest industry. We have many and heavy timber cars that drive on our roads. Another reason, Madam President, that the quality of the road network in Värmland is worse than in many other parts of the country is that we have had significant problems coordinating cooperation across the border with Norway. We have found it difficult to get the Swedish traffic authorities together with the Norwegian traffic authorities. For a border county like Värmland, this is devastating. Madam President, I would like I would like to take some clear examples of our inability to move in step when it comes to investments in the road network across the border with Norway. First of all, the E18 cuts right through my home country and Marléne Lund Kopparklint. It is the body artery itself in the corridor from Stockholm to Oslo, and it is Sweden's most populous corridor – and I can add that it is the most populous in the Nordic region. The distance between Valnäs and Töcksfors is 80 kilometres away. The Finnish Transport Administration is very clear that it sees a need for meeting-separation. There are strong reasons, for we unfortunately have many traffic accidents in the form of frontal collisions. However, the Finnish Transport Agency is also clear that it does not have the financial means to invest in E18. As far as E18 is concerned, Värmland is clearly the missing link between Sweden and Norway. I note that Norway has completed all its investments on E18 all the way up to the border, and they are now waiting for a Swedish statement that we will respond to this. And what does the Finnish Transport Administration do instead? Well, you have to slow down speed, just as Marléne Lund Kopparklint said. The speed of large parts of the road network in Sweden is now reduced due to the fact that the quality of the road network is too low, and this leads to traffic hazards. Another example where we have also gone unpaced is E16 from Torsby to Kongsvinger. We heard that the Minister for Infrastructure was talking about Torsby to Eda, and that's right. Trucks are not allowed to cross the border on the E16 from Torsby to Kongsvinger because we do not have a customs station there. This is the only European road in Sweden that does not have a customs station. Instead, you have to drive a detour of 12 miles. It's not very climate-smart. This is another example where Sweden and Norway are not moving in pace. I can also note that Norway has actually invested in the E16 all the way up to Kongsvinger. Another problem is that the Customs Department is not moving in time. For example, customs on the E18 at night has been suspended. That's where you cut off the artery. What I am trying to say with this is that we need a much stronger cross-border coordination. There are opportunities for this if you use the Nordic Council of Infrastructure Council. I know, however, that the government has not been enthusiastic about coordinating that work.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-716	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! I have two things I want to correct again. As far as the urovignette is concerned, it is again proof that the controls are not working. Those who drive in Sweden should pay via the urovinjett, and it cheats hello wild with it. This is because there is no one who can prosecute anyone who does not comply with the rules. The second is that we have put forward motion proposals to introduce the same kind of tax for foreign vehicles in Sweden as they have in Germany, the so-called maut. I can therefore look forward to the support of the Social Democrats this autumn on this issue. When it comes to road maintenance, it is extremely important for the people who live and work around our country that road traffic works. It's the artery. It is the opportunity to live and work in the area where you live. This applies to Värmland, Västerbotten, Jämtland or anywhere in our elongated country. It's a prerequisite for me to be able to get to work, go to the doctor, go to the store or whatever. It is extremely important for industrial activity that it has a well-functioning road network so that transport works. This is not in conflict with climate change. One may well change the transport system to meet the climate requirements. But we cannot put our infrastructure down and say: it cannot be done, because the climate cannot do it. Of course we must have a road network that works. Whether you live in Karlstad, in Dikanäs or wherever it may be, the road network must work. There must be money added. There's not enough money coming from the government here.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-721	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants for their commitment to something as important as our paths. Let me first correct Marléne Lund Kopparklint: No, I do not ride the subway at home in Småland. We don't have it. At home in Småland it is roads and sometimes railways that apply. In Kosta, where I myself grew up, there was neither one nor the other, I was about to say. This means that I am really well aware of what it means to go around on both smaller and larger roads. That is why I am also committed to what I know is that Pål Jonson is also extremely committed to, namely road safety – that we make sure to build safe roads, set up central railings and have the right speed. Unfortunately, I would also like to correct Mrs Pål Jonson: Pål says that there are reduced speeds on large parts of the road network. The truth, just to be correct, is that we have 10 000 km of state road in Sweden. Since 2012, when this process started under moderate government, there has been a reduction of 425 km of road – 425 km of road of 10 000 km. In addition, the speed has been increased at 125 km, including through central railings and centre separation. This reduces the risk of frontal collisions. There the government that I belong to has done something that previous governments did not do. We provide extra resources just to be able to set up more railings. We help the county plans to deploy state resources so that we can increase road safety and set up more central railings, so that commuting distances can go from 90 to 100 kilometres per hour instead of being lowered to 80. But more resources are needed, and that is because for a long time too little was invested. I think that's a concern. Now it's SEK 197 billion, which is a record amount of resources. But I would still like to take this opportunity to say, since I am in the Småland theme, that as a small-timer I am also very keen that we use the money effectively. I am concerned when I see in Trafikverket's documentation and Riksrevisionen's review that the cost of road maintenance has increased by, I think, 60 percent. Then neither the government nor Members of Parliament can say: Just spend more money! We must also carefully examine and see how the money is being spent. Will there be more road maintenance? I will be very careful about that. Not least, I intend to ensure that it takes place to roads throughout the country. In the latest budget proposal, therefore, we are pushing for investments earmarked for rural roads. Then it is a concern that the Moderates still choose to prioritise reduced petrol tax. You are even spending more money on reduced petrol taxes than on increasing road maintenance. That's an interesting priority, you might say. You also continue to say no to road wear and tear. Obviously, then, you think it is reasonable that foreign trucks driving on the roads in Värmland should do so for free, while those living in Torsby, Eda or other communities should be involved in paying the road maintenance tax-financed, just like all of us. Would it not be reasonable if we actually made sure that foreign companies too were given the opportunity? Then we need a road toll, which you are opposed to. I think we all want better quality on our roads. That's why we're putting more resources into it. However, I am concerned when Marléne Lund Kopparklint tries to put this in opposition to investments in rail. I can see that there are very many Moderates in Västra Götaland, Skåne, Jönköping, Norrköping and Linköping, and also in the moderate parliamentary group, who think that efforts to expand our railway system throughout the country are also important. This applies both in Värmland as well as along new main tracks or Norrbotniabanan. That's what we're ensuring, because we're putting more resources than ever... significantly more than what was done when the Moderates had government power.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-729	Madam President, I would like Now both I and my colleague, Mrs Pål Jonson, have given several examples of the need to act now for Värmland's road network. I would like an answer from the Minister on how to deal with the issue when, according to the Värmland Region, 120 million a year is required to maintain current functionality on the state road network, but the available funds are only 60 million a year. How to deal with the safety of our roads with those numbers? I can't get that equation together. I wish the Minister could put on the waste pants here too and help Värmland so that we can have a high level of road safety on our roads around our county. Nevertheless, I would still like to mention that priority has been put on major roads, Types 1 – 3. The others are down to priority. This has been very clear in the delivery priorities of recent years. This is also stated by the Swedish Transport Administration. This contributes to the gap between town and country, and the possibility of living and working throughout Sweden is affected. Although this bill now actually proposes more money for maintenance, it is far from enough to even reach zero, so to speak. The government proposes more funding for individual roads, which is incredibly important for entrepreneurs in the agricultural industry, for example. The only problem is that this is maintenance and investment that is badly neglected because of insufficient funds over many years. There will be a zero-sum game, and the effects – as well as the cheers for the government – will be missed. I have many questions for the Minister to whom I would like answers.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-733	Madam President, I would like I can reassure the Minister for Infrastructure that I am also keen to see investments in rail and maintenance. However, I do not want high-speed trains, but I want a better rail line between Oslo and Stockholm. I note that we have received an extended hand from Norway. However, I cannot find anything about rail between Oslo and Stockholm in the infrastructure bill, which raises concerns. It is well known that the Moderates as a party are behind the investment in rail between Oslo and Stockholm, which would also have very good effects for moving people from air to rail. I would like once again to highlight the need for coordination at the Nordic level linked to the infrastructure. In the past – until 2011 – we had the order that the Nordic Transport Ministers met in the Nordic Council to discuss infrastructure issues, all in good faith to connect the Nordic countries. I listened very carefully when the Minister for Infrastructure spoke for the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council. Everyone in the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council, including the Social Democratic Ministers, wanted to see a reactivation of the meetings of the Nordic Council of Ministers, which led to the transport ministers meeting. I did not hear a positive response from the Minister for Infrastructure, but he is happy to correct me if he has news about this today. I have one final point, Madam President. Of course, it's great that more money is coming to the road. At the same time, it should be made clear that the distribution across the country is very uneven. Värmland is the county that has received the third worst dividend over time when it comes to county plans; we have in principle had zero growth two infrastructure periods in a row. This is unfortunate for the regional development of mine and Marléne Lund Kopparklint's county. Thank you, Minister for Infrastructure, for the debate.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-738	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Marl é ne Lund Kopparklint and Pål Jonson – I really appreciate the commitment! I have been in Värmland a lot, because my sister lived there for 30 years, driving around on the Värmland roads. I sometimes feel as at home there as at home in Småland, because it is very similar nature. That is also why I think it is so incredibly important that we have resources for road maintenance and not least the BK4 initiative, which is extremely important for economic policy, not least for a county such as Värmland. That's where we put the resources. Therefore, I was concerned when I heard Marléne Lund Kopparklint talk about waste pants. This is not waste; it is investment. These are investments in Swedish infrastructure to the extent that we have never experienced before. It is substantially more investment than was made when the Moderates had government power. These are investments on both road and rail. The investments on the railway are made because we hit the capacity ceiling. A year and a half ago, I got to ride what I called the millionth train. I had to do this because there had been 1 million trains on the Swedish railway; there have never been so many. At the time, the Finnish Transport Agency warned that it was on the tracks – we need to increase capacity. Then it is not enough just to renovate and repair, but to add new ones. This is what makes Marléne's and Påls's party colleagues in the Moderates in other parts of the country want new high-speed rail lines, so that they relieve, so that we can accommodate more goods along the Southern Main Line and the Western Main Line and so that we can build railway that expands the labour market in Norrköping, Linköping, Borås and Hässleholm. However, we should also, of course, have room to invest in roads. Actually, this should only be self-evident, but you in the Moderates have unfortunately every time you have the chance to choose instead to prioritise tax cuts. It will then be telling that you spend more money on petrol tax than on road maintenance.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-743	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked me whether I will work to investigate state aid for relief services for animal producers and for the Swedish democrats' proposals or similar proposals to become a reality. I share the view that taking a holiday or getting relief in case of illness, for example, can be a challenge for livestock farmers. Animal producers are important for Swedish food production and the implementation of the Swedish food strategy, while grazing animals are crucial for biodiversity in the agricultural landscape. Strengthening and increasing the competitiveness of agriculture and the fact that Swedish food production is crucial for jobs and growth in rural areas is a point in the January agreement, the political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. An important part of this work is that the Government decided in December 2019 on another food strategy action plan. The action plan includes investments of SEK 122 million annually until 2025. In addition, additional investments of a total of SEK 114 million were made in 2020. In the budget proposal for 2021, a further SEK 74 million was added and announced in 2021 – 2023 to strengthen the work on the food strategy. The proposed measures together shall form the third part of an action plan. The Action Plan is an important step in strengthening competitiveness and increasing profitability through investments in research and innovation, simplification and skills provision, for example. I would like to emphasise that we are in a positive trend. According to recent figures from the National Board of Agriculture's sector calculation, the total production value for 2020 is estimated to be SEK 64.3 billion – an increase of SEK 0.8 billion, or just over 1 per cent, compared to 2019. The value of livestock production is expected to increase by SEK 0.8 billion, or 3 percent, and is estimated at SEK 28.4 billion. Since the 1970s, Sweden has had a state-funded relief service run through various companies where the Swedish Farmers' Federation, LRF, has been the principal. In the context of the liberalisation of agriculture in the 1990s, state funding ceased and the LRF continued operating on a commercial basis. In 1999, the LRF decided to shut down its activities altogether. At present, the government is not planning an investigation into the reintroduction of a state-funded relief service. The government is working with other measures that promote jobs and growth throughout the country. In the Food Strategy, the Government takes a broad approach to issues that are important for competitiveness and skills supply in both the food sector and agriculture. Sweden needs to have a good food supply capacity – an issue that arises in times like these. The food strategy's goal of increased and sustainable food production was decided by the Riksdag in 2017, and this will be achieved in 2030. In order to achieve the objectives of the food strategy, long-term and continuous work is needed through the food strategy's action plans, but also through how Sweden develops measures and actions in the coming period of the common agricultural policy, which starts in 2023. My assessment is that these measures and efforts within the framework of the food strategy and the common agricultural policy will also facilitate the situation of livestock farmers.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-751	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This debate is about the social situation of our Swedish keepers. A good social situation is important in many ways for agriculture and for Sweden as a society, but in my first speech I focus on the issue of social sustainability and animal welfare. I will come back to the other questions in speech number 2. First of all, I would like to say briefly that I agree with the Minister that increased profitability and competitiveness in agriculture are crucial for the future and facilitate much else, such as good animal welfare. That is why we Swedish democrats in our budget spend much more money than the government to the agricultural sector for reduced costs and taxes for agriculture and compensation for Swedish additional requirements. I now turn to social sustainability and animal welfare. SVT's mission review showed a report on poor animal welfare at a number of farms. This has attracted a lot of attention and horror. That is also right – in Sweden we have decided that the animals should be well. It is a basic requirement for animal husbandry to be justifiable at all. How are we going to deal with poor animal welfare in livestock production? We have clear and far-reaching animal welfare laws. That's good. We have severe punishments. That's good, but we want to tighten them up. We have supervision, although we want to increase it. But you have to be humble and realize that only punishment and supervision are not enough and that only less than 1 percent of the keepers of animals are shooting their animals. 99% don't. Note that I'm not waving the problem away. Bad animal welfare is always unacceptable. Rather, the last percentage is the most difficult to detect through supervision. Then you have to think in new ways. What is missing is prevention. This is something that all parliamentary parties affirm in terms of ordinary crime. In order to prevent this, we must first understand the background to the cases of maladministration found. I don't think you're gonna be a keeper if you don't like animals. Many times the tragic animal welfare cases stem from personal tragedies. It can be divorce, illness or other problems. One reason why personal problems may in turn result in the mismanagement of animals is the lack of margins, especially for small dairy farms. It's about time and money. There is no room for temporarily worse performance. This allows you to get into a negative spiral where it is difficult to catch up. You are constantly behind and then feel shame when things have gone too far and therefore do not want to contact, for example, LRF's care groups, which actually exist. Thus, relief is needed that comes quickly and where the threshold is low when it comes to calling in help so as to avoid being drawn into the negative spiral. As the milk industry is under considerable economic pressure, the relief must be cheap. The Swedish Democrats are exercising on an investigation of government subsidies for relief services for animal keepers. This could, among other things, be used for emergency relief and thus prevent situations where animals are harmed. In this way, we can access a category of animal welfare issues that are difficult to access. We have also spent SEK 20 million in our government budget proposal on a pilot project in Västernorrland County and Halland County. This pilot project could provide valuable information on what is actually requested and where the needs really are. As I understand it, the government is working on a work environment strategy for 2021 – 2025 that includes accidents at work in agriculture. The Government's website stresses the need to continuously work on the issue. It would fit very well into the strategy if the government were to commission an investigation into how subsidies for a replacement service for animal keepers could look like, in order to solve the health and safety problems associated with the difficulties of taking time off.
i-4tHXGg7MVFK5FXZjw6VJr5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the question! I agree with the description of the problems and the picture that Staffan Eklöf begins his speech by expressing. Sweden has and should have a good animal welfare. Of course, that is not acceptable when animals are harmed. But what we see in different media reports is also a very small proportion. That picture should be given correctly. There are various reasons why things are going to be the way they are. But not infrequently, personal tragedies are responsible for losing control of one's activities. So I think we are quite in agreement on the problem picture. However, we do land in various solutions to the problem. Our focus is on putting the policy tools and incentives to increase profitability in the industry. We do this by having a food strategy in place. Sweden has not had anyone since before. It's historic. I think it is a very important basis for changing the conditions and profitability in the industry long-term and sustainable. The focus areas that we have raised and identified together with the industry are regulatory simplifications. This means saving both time and money, which is important in this context. This certainly affects both the opportunities and the interest in being a farmer. But it certainly also helps to avoid being pressured and burned out by having to do things that you may not want to do in the first place and which are not the reasons why you want to be a farmer. Research and innovation are also important. We need to ensure that we develop goods and services, production methods and business models in order to become competitive and be able to develop our operations. But it may also lead to new markets both within and outside Sweden. This can in itself contribute to increased profitability. We'll link export to that. In order to increase profitability, we think it is important to get the volumes up. Then a market that is larger than Sweden is needed. We therefore need to ensure that we get the best possible provision for everything that is done in Sweden. That is why it is a high priority. We have also identified skills provision as critical to the industry's ability to grow and reach its full potential. I am convinced that this is a great potential. It is positive that Staffan Eklöf has noted the work environment that the government has intensified within the framework of the work done at the Ministry of Labour. But I have also taken a special responsibility and raised the issues from my perspective, given that in my portfolio I have the green and blue industries. They are absolutely the worst in the accident statistics for both accidents and fatal accidents. It is deeply worrying and totally unacceptable. It is almost twice as high as in the industry, construction and transport, which has the second highest numbers. It's really important. We will now use funding from the Rural Development Programme – we open up this opportunity – to have first and foremost counselling efforts and to increase knowledge.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-770	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that I think the efforts made by the government are very positive. I also agree that increased profitability is extremely important and that regulatory simplification, research and innovation and exports are important. The initiative to curb accidents is also very good. To the extent that I have criticism, what is not happening is what is happening. I see it as a whole, and in that whole there is a bit missing. It is about part of social sustainability. I think that part can contribute to profitability. It's connected. Since Jennie Nilsson usually listens to arguments, I feed them on. Social sustainability in food production has become highly topical today – rightly so. Swedish agriculture is under a lot of pressure. We know from the past that many keepers cannot afford to take a vacation. This morning, the Royal Swedish Academy of Forestry and Agriculture held a webinarium on social sustainability in the food system. Flora Hajdu from SLU presented a study of the changes in agriculture since 1992 and showed that the view on work has changed. It is now considered important to have room for family life and a rich leisure time. She testified that many struggle to get the opportunity for a week's vacation. Yeah, I said a week. To get a long weekend off costs for an interviewed farmer 6 000 SEK. Then it won't happen in a tight business. We believe that a subsidy could make it easier to take some time off to rest, spend with the family or just have the opportunity to meet children and grandchildren who live at a distance; that's the case nowadays. Everything that is natural for the rest of us is becoming very difficult for farmers today. Yesterday at the public hearing on the vulnerability of agriculture, where the Minister was also present, we were told that social sustainability reduces vulnerability. Annsofie Wahlström at SLU argued that a relief service law would increase the attractiveness of the agricultural industry. That is exactly what we Swedish democrats think. A subsidised relief service could have positive effects on life, family life, the resilience of the industry and the attractiveness of the profession. That is precisely what is needed to recruit young people. But it would also increase the possibility of further training and, by extension, facilitate the use of new technologies or new findings for environmental friendliness. According to an OECD study, Sweden is good at innovation but a little less at spreading knowledge. Another exciting potential effect is gender equality. Finland has a well-developed social safety net for its farmers and has significantly more female farmers. A female farmer who participated in yesterday's hearing also expressed that she loves to work but that it is important to leave. I fully agree with that. There is much more to distinguish between us and Finland. However, it can be noted that Finland has a self-sufficiency rate of 80 per cent, compared with 50 per cent in Sweden. If we deal with this issue, I think we are showing that farmers are important and that Swedish agriculture is important. It's needed today. I cannot see what the negative effects would be when it comes to investigating the issue. I urge the Minister to do so. Then we'll be wiser in terms of both advantages and disadvantages, and we'll see you here again.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-780	Madam President, I would like There are, of course, challenges linked to the competitiveness of agriculture and agriculture, but above all there is great potential. It is gratifying that we are now seeing some trend breaks. I hope they hold on and we can change them up. I want to call them trend breakers because we see it in several parts. Profitability increases broadly in all segments. Despite the overall decline in meat consumption in Sweden, the proportion of Swedish-produced meat bought is increasing. Here we have curves that cut each other in a way that shows that Swedish consumers are aware consumers who make conscious choices and are prepared to pay for the added value of Swedish-produced meat. We also see that milk weighing increases for the first time in a very long time. It increases by 69 000 tonnes, which is also a clear trend break. So there is much going in the right direction. However, one of the most important things that goes in the right direction, beyond what I have mentioned, is that the search for green education is increasing. This applies both to agricultural upper secondary schools and to the courses at SLU. Otherwise, a declining interest in these courses is something that has been grappled with for a very long time. The overall impression of the work and development right now shows that the industry is doing better, and young people have become aware of this as a future industry. That's good. As Staffan Eklöf says, I think it is necessary to work more broadly than this. Of course, we cannot settle down. There will be a continuous need to look at various things that affect interest, profitability and the participation of women and men. The issue of generational change concerns me, and if I were to investigate something and have the resources to do so, I would like, first and foremost, to have a broader perspective on the issue of generational change as such. It is so much more than what we are talking about in this debate. Staffan Eklöf cites Finland as an example. We often compare ourselves to Finland and often do so a little disrespectful. You take the part that you like and maybe you don't look at the bigger picture. As Staffan Eklöf says, they have relief services in Finland. More than 100 people are employed. The government takes about 70 per cent of the total cost of them. But the cost is great. EUR 150 million is paid for this, equivalent to SEK 1 1⁄2 billion. That's a significant amount of money. Sweden has chosen other measures in the framework of its rural development programme, where such efforts can be made as an exception to the state aid rules, which Finland probably uses. In Sweden, we have, together with the industry, identified other needs. I would like to emphasise that it has been done together with the industry, because I have not understood that it is currently an issue that is addressed and prioritised by the industry. I am convinced that we would like to have this opportunity, but it is not a priority. Other priorities are prioritised, and these are the ones that we have now chosen to lift up in the first place. As far as I know, comparable countries, such as Denmark and Germany, with which we often compare ourselves, have no replacement services paid for by the state in their systems, but are built on a commercial basis. I think that is a wise way to have first and foremost as a starting point. However, we will ensure that there is profitability in the industry so that you can afford to pay for changers during holiday or illness.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-789	Madam President, I would like I, too, hope it's a trend break. If I may be a dismal twig, I think it may be partly due to the pandemic. You eat more at home than at a restaurant. In restaurants, the use of Swedish raw materials is generally worse, which we should fix by labelling. The Minister also spoke of possibly investigating the issue of generational change. Addressing social issues and achieving social sustainability would certainly facilitate generational change. That is my conviction. For today we do not want to go into the same hard work as the parents have done. It is possible that the industry does not require this but prioritises other things. Structural rationalization may have reduced the need on average, but the need remains with many small users. There may be fewer people today who need this, but those who need it do it as much as before. The way I see it, it's a matter of justice. It does not feel good if competition in the agricultural market is about competing with poor working conditions. It is worth a lot of money to get rid of such an effect. Subsidisation of relief services could thus potentially lead to a strengthening of animal welfare and better living and family life. Vulnerability is decreasing, further education and the use of technology are improving and gender equality is taking a step forward. If I had been a minister, I would not hesitate to investigate the matter.
i-7810fcde6f2fb643-793	Madam President, I would like Investigating this is not in the plan right now. In this situation, it is more important to look at broader perspectives. Staffan Eklöf said in one of his previous speeches that the Minister usually listens to good arguments. Of course I listen to the arguments that exist. I share the view that the social context and security are important. In the first place, it probably needs to be done with other aids. If profitability and resources were to be freed up, this service could be purchased on a normal commercial basis. For example, there is the association Växa Sverige that runs a commercial service in the area. There you can buy services like these. For me, it is more about ensuring that you can afford and make such a choice. Since we have a constructive spirit, I would like to refer to the hearing which the Committee on Environment and Agriculture held yesterday and to which Staffan Eklöf refers. What I noted about profitability was that one of the most important issues identified by primary producers, food business operators and several other stakeholders was that we need to get a good UTP directive. The industry appealed to the parties that have put forward motions in this area to think this through again. I think it's important. We must seize every opportunity to deliver results on things that we have agreed on, such as getting a food strategy in place that also ties in with other issues. It concerns the common agricultural policy, the UTP directive and a number of other issues that lay a good foundation for the further development of a sector that we all want well.
