i-dc179cc902565046-2	Madam President, I would like The European Council last week was my 66th and, in all likelihood, the last summit. The meeting was largely characterised by the situation of high electricity prices in Europe, and this led to a long discussion. I stressed that this is a serious situation in Europe, where both people and businesses are affected by high energy prices, and that we are closely monitoring developments. In the discussion, some argued that the reasons for the high energy prices are that climate change is moving too fast. Among other things, they argued that the ETS had to be reviewed. I and most others believe that, on the contrary, the situation shows that we need to speed up the green transition. The measures must focus on the real causes of the current situation and not on slowing down the green transition. The toolbox recently presented by the Commission is a good starting point. I stressed the important role of nuclear power in the green transition. However, I did not say that it should be classified as sustainable. As the Chairman of the EU Board pointed out during the consultation last week, there is no support for such an opinion in the Swedish Parliament. The European Council will discuss energy prices again in December. Madam President, I would like We had a clear discussion on Poland and the EU legal order in the light of the recent outcome of the Polish Constitutional Court. Sweden has pushed for linking grant payments to compliance with the regulatory framework. The so-called conditionality regulation is a new tool to ensure that our fundamental values are respected. It is a great success that it is in place. I expect the Commission to act now, and we from the Swedish side are prepared to use all the tools. Madam President, I would like As far as covid-19 is concerned, the pandemic is obviously not over even though we have had success with the vaccinations. Now we need to work on getting as many people as possible vaccinated. There are too many differences between countries. Nor, however, is it enough for us to vaccinate ourselves within the European Union. International access to vaccines is crucial, and no one is safe until everyone is safe. Madam President, I would like The digital issues were also on the agenda. Here we have a common interest in getting this right and using the digital tools that are now being developed to make our societies strong, to do the jobs and, not least, to meet the climate challenge. Everyone must feel that they have a role in this transition; otherwise it will not work. Efforts in education and training are so important. It is important that development towards making our societies more digital does not mean that we are joining the outside world. What is termed digital sovereignty must be developed in a transparent manner. Alone is not strong, and Europe benefits from cooperation with the outside world. Madam President, I would like The European Council also discussed trade issues, and this on Swedish initiative. The EU needs to sharpen its trade policy. Too much of the recent discussion has been about trade defence instruments and other defensive measures. Too little has been about the fact that over 85% of future growth will be outside Europe. We must make use of a positive trade agenda; it is simply necessary for the jobs of the future and the growth of the future. Many highlighted the importance of free trade but also that aspects such as climate change and social sustainability must be woven into the EU's trade agenda. Madam President, I would like The external dimension of migration was discussed again. The Commission shall continue its work with countries of origin and transit. The EU also needs to monitor its external borders; this shows, not least, the recent totally unacceptable behaviour of the Belarus regime led by President Lukasjenko. People from Iraq and Libya, for example, are being flown in with false pretences about a life in Europe. They are bused to the borders of Poland, Latvia or Lithuania when they have landed, and some of them have even had to pay with their lives in this ruthless game. Those responsible for this are those who have staged it: the Belarus regime. I stressed that the EU should adopt as soon as possible a new package of sanctions against the Minsk regime, on which we reached agreement at the meeting. We also agreed that the Commission should examine the possibility of further action, and these should, of course, be in line with international law, including fundamental rights. Madam President, I would like We also briefly prepared some international meetings, mainly COP 26 in Glasgow. The EU needs to push for the achievement and maintenance of the 1.5°C target. This requires, among other things, a strengthening of climate finance and the involvement of EU countries in achieving the commitment of $100 billion annually. Finally, Madam President, the initiative of the Swedish Government, the Malmö Forum, was recognised as a great success for the remembrance of the Holocaust and the work against anti-Semitism and all forms of racism. The President of the European Council called on all Member States to apply the international definition of anti-Semitism. That concludes the report.
i-dc179cc902565046-18	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. Electricity prices are flashing and hitting hard on households across Europe. That is why the European Council was to discuss measures to reduce prices in the short and long term, but also to ensure increased production of clean fossil-free electricity in order to succeed in the transition. All fossil-free energies must then be given the opportunity to contribute if we are to succeed. Therefore, the Moderates and a majority in the EU Board called for the Prime Minister to speak at the European Council and argue that Swedish and European nuclear power should be classified as a sustainable investment within the framework of taxonomics. Thus, Sweden would join countries such as France and Finland, to name but a few. Right after the meeting, the Prime Minister said to the media, "No, I find no point in raising an issue that nobody has on the agenda as Swedish Prime Minister." The Prime Minister then argued that he did not have to follow the EU Council in this case. Madam President, I would like I find it unacceptable that the Prime Minister does not respect the decision-making body in Parliament which has the task of giving instructions to the government in the EU's work. Reports from the meeting also show that the Prime Minister was wrong; the issue of more clean electricity and a safe transition to climate neutrality can be found in the conclusions of the meeting. Taxonomics was also very much up. In the past, ten countries have written letters to the Commission, and now the Netherlands, among other things, raised the issue of nuclear power having to be classified as sustainable within taxonomy. But from Sweden it seems to have been quiet. My questions are therefore: should I take it that the Prime Minister did not assist the countries that the Netherlands referred to on nuclear power in taxonomy? Why did the Prime Minister not take the opportunity to have the mandate of the EU Council in his back? Does the Prime Minister mean that he does not have to comply with the mandate of the EU Council?
i-dc179cc902565046-24	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, I mentioned the importance of nuclear power for the energy transition. We are in complete agreement on this. Taxonomy was not on the agenda. What Members of the European Council then say during the meeting can no one control, but it was not on the agenda. We can also note that there is nothing about it in the conclusions. My line, the line that I pursued in this, is that of the Swedish Parliament. There is no mention of nuclear power being sustainable. This is, in my view, the information I do not have the Parliament's opinion. I think it is best for the Swedish Prime Minister to stand up for what the House thinks. That's my answer. I have kept the line on which we agree on the importance of nuclear power, and we intend to continue to do so.
i-dc179cc902565046-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. In substance, I can only regret that the government is opposed to all fossil-free forms of energy. I believe that both energy prices and climate change would benefit from the fact that we all joined in using all the tools in the toolbox. However, I also note that the issue of taxonomy was raised in the discussions. Then my supplementary question is: why did the Prime Minister not take the opportunity, now that he had the mandate of the EU Board in his back, to assist countries such as the Netherlands, which raised the issue of the sustainability of nuclear power in the framework of taxonomy? That's my question in that part. My second question is whether it is correctly understood that the Prime Minister believes that he does not have to comply with the mandate of the EU Board but that it is free to choose on which occasions to comply with the mandate of the EU Board.
i-dc179cc902565046-31	Madam President, I would like When it comes first to the mandate of the EU Board, the view is that we should seek consultation in order to get a united Swedish position. On this particular issue, it emerged from the EU Board Chairman's summary that, in the very section dealing with sustainability and nuclear power, the opinion of the Swedish Parliament was not shared by the House. When I represent the country, in Brussels in this case, it is good to express the views of the House. When it comes to combating it, it is quite wrong. For example, domestic agreements have been concluded, including the Moderates, where nuclear power is involved, and that is what we are expressing. After all, it has left the Moderates, and I find that a pity. It would have been good to maintain a broad energy policy agreement. It provides the best conditions for any investment in energy. But we stand up for it, and we intend to continue to do so.
i-dc179cc902565046-33	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the presentation. We note from the previous exchange of words that the Prime Minister thus did not comply with the decision of the EU Board last week to address the sustainability of nuclear energy within the taxonomy regulation. We also note that the Prime Minister went down to the European Council to raise other countries about democracy while the Prime Minister does not seem to hold Swedish parliamentary democracy very high. The Parliamentary Order, its preparatory work and decision in the Constitutional Committee provide that Sweden's position for negotiations with the European Council shall be decided by the EU Board. The EU Board is in turn decided by the Riksdag. All members of the EU Board have been elected by the Riksdag. The Riksdag has thus been distributed to the EU Board to give a mandate to the Government. I wonder how the Prime Minister is reasoning. Does he want to change the parliamentary order? Is something wrong? The Parliamentary Order is, of course, the closest thing you can get to a constitution without it actually being. How much respect does the Prime Minister have for parliamentary democracy in Sweden?
i-dc179cc902565046-37	Madam President, I would like I have so much respect for Parliament that I intend to follow Parliament's view on a matter of substance. The view of this House on a matter of substance is, in my view, quite essential in this respect, and I am therefore following it as well. It has also emerged from committee work that has been going on in Parliament in the context of such a situation. There is no doubt that we are always seeking consensus and trying to find a common line in the EU Board. But it is also clear that when the government does not, it should explain why it does not. Of course, it is ultimately Parliament that will then have to decide whether or not to accept the declaration. That is exactly what has happened here. I follow the Swedish Parliament because I think it is important to do so. I will not lecture anyone else about democracy, but this was Sweden's position. Again, we believe that nuclear power has and will play an important role in the energy transition and will be there for a long time. Anyone can also invest in nuclear power in Sweden. It's welcome. It has not yet happened, but if you want to do it, you have to do it.
i-dc179cc902565046-41	Madam President, I would like We can note that the Prime Minister has given various explanations for not following the decisions of the EU Council. One is that the issue should not have been on the agenda. We know that the issue was raised in the discussions, that both the Netherlands and France referred to the taxonomy regulation. At the same time, we know that the issue of Poland was not on the agenda, but the Prime Minister went down to the meeting and raised it. The Prime Minister also states that there is a false majority in the EU Council. If so, why should we have the EU Board as the decision-making body in the first place, as Parliament's Rules of Procedure prescribe? Does the Prime Minister not care about how the parliamentary order formulates the EU's work? I find it very difficult to understand what the Prime Minister really means. How can the EU Board have a false majority when it is the Riksdag that decides who is on the EU Board?
i-dc179cc902565046-44	Madam President, I would like Maybe it's not as strange as it sounds. If Parliament is in the Chamber, there is an opinion on this issue, and that is what I have expressed. I think it's quite essential what Parliament thinks. We seek consensus, as I said, on all occasions and on the vast majority of issues – something else is extremely rare – and we do so through the EU Board. It is not that there is any disregard for Parliament here, quite the contrary. We are working purposefully to find common ground, prepare compromises and be pragmatic in order to do so. Then there is the possibility of not complying with that decision. It should be on individual occasions, and then you should also explain why you don't. In this case, there was a majority in the EU Board and another if the House is together.
i-dc179cc902565046-46	Madam President, I would like For me, it is the high electricity prices that are worrying. The discussion we have had so far will not resolve it in any way, at least not in the short or medium term. The high electricity prices in southern Sweden in particular are a direct threat to companies and households. It is something that it is essential to do something about. There I share the Prime Minister's view that it is the high prices of fossil energy, especially on the continent, that spill over on Sweden and make the transition need to go faster. The Prime Minister highlights the Commission's toolbox as a good initiative and a good starting point. That is why I am a little curious about what measures the Prime Minister takes home from the summit, from the Commission's toolbox or others, to make a difference in the short term, where it actually matters, to people and businesses in southern Sweden.
i-dc179cc902565046-49	Madam President, I would like It was precisely that discussion, the substance of energy prices, that we devoted time to at the European Council. In the long term, of course, it is important to ensure that we have production, a transfer and the possibility of storage – all those things that strengthen the European energy market. We have to keep working on that. In the short term, it is the so-called toolbox. There are opportunities for Member States to take action, both in the case of individual households and consumers, but also in the case of businesses. That is why we have said that we are following the issue very closely to see how this is progressing. Will this continue for a long time, and if so, what do we need to do? There are speculations here as to whether there will continue to be such a high price, for example on natural gas. Some say it won't be, others say it will probably be over the first quarter of 2022. That is why I have said before that the government is following this and is prepared to take action on the basis of this toolbox.
i-dc179cc902565046-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, the government has not taken sufficient initiatives in the long term. It has had seven, almost eight, years to do so, and surprisingly little is happening. But when it comes to just how to do it in the short term, I did not actually get any answers from the Prime Minister. You follow the trend. The problem is that in southern Sweden this is not a new issue. Electricity prices have been significantly higher than in northern Sweden for a very long time now. Following that question is not enough. Action is needed, and it is not possible to wait and see how it will be in the long term and that there will be more production and more transfer, which is also important, but action is needed here and now. The question is: what measures is the government actually prepared to take?
i-dc179cc902565046-55	Madam President, I would like First of all, Sweden has had the lowest energy prices, electricity prices, throughout the EU for SMEs, for example. This is partly due to the fact that we have a surplus of electricity in Sweden, and this is due to, among other things, the fact that we have built out wind power quite well in Sweden. It now accounts for almost 20% of the electricity supply, and we are continuing with further expansion of wind power, not least offshore. We have a prospectus of up to 500 terawatt hours. So we have exported clean electricity to Europe, and so we have thought of fossil energy. That's how we've acted. That is why we concluded the agreement as well, to ensure that we have a long-term perspective on this, and that is why we have the investments we have in Sweden. Then we need to do more and expand more – that's true – with future wind turbines, transmission and transmission and invest more in energy storage.
i-dc179cc902565046-58	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his report. The Prime Minister is absolutely right that no one is safe in the world until everyone is safe. This means that we must make it easier for all the citizens of the world to vaccinate against covid-19. Unfortunately, the availability of vaccines is very unequally distributed in the world. The rich countries have a good asset, but poor countries do not have it. One way of spreading the vaccine worldwide would be to lighten the tough patent regulations that exist today and say that life has to take precedence this time and that we are thus giving free licences to countries such as Vietnam, India, Brazil etcetera so that they can produce domestic vaccines with the support of those licences. Is the Prime Minister prepared to work for it? Was there anything he raised at the summit? With regard to the important climate summit COP 26 in Glasgow, which starts this Sunday, today we have a huge gap of confidence between rich countries and poor countries. The rich countries, as the Prime Minister said, have committed themselves to helping the poor countries in the climate transition with climate finance of at least $100 billion a year. We're not there. That money doesn't yet exist. And as far as I know, the EU intends to go to Glasgow without a concrete figure on climate finance, that is, without new climate money for the poorest in the world.
i-dc179cc902565046-64	If you do not get there with the minimum criterion, namely to help those affected here and now by the climate crisis, then you really do not have anything to do with it.
i-dc179cc902565046-65	Madam President, I would like As far as vaccines are concerned, everyone should be safe. Europe is the best example, albeit not good enough. If we have distributed around 800 million doses in the European Union, we have actually exported 1 billion doses, I think that is. You will have to take those figures a little with a pinch of salt, but about every other dose that the EU has produced and had the opportunity to do so has actually been exported. So here I would say that we are in good shape. But that doesn't say it's enough. We will have to do more for the poor countries. That's why we're on, and that's why we ourselves, Sweden, are raising our own effort to Covax. We have also said that the whole world must do so. In this case, the EU is a forerunner compared to many others, but more needs to be done. When it comes to COP 26, it is just as Jens Holm says that there is a big difference between rich and poor countries. In addition, the poor suffer more. It is the rich who have caused it, but the poor who suffer and will suffer greatly. That is why, in connection with the opening of the General Assembly in New York, we raised this at an extraordinary meeting called by Boris Johnson and António Guterres. The importance of us having said before we get to Glasgow that we've clogged that 20 billion dollar gap is big. I believe that we cannot sit there and possibly come to an agreement during the meeting, but we should have managed to do that. We have, of course, also mentioned this in the context of the European Union. Both the President of the European Council and the President of the Commission have said that the EU should step up its efforts but, of course, also want others to do so. But I'm saying this can't be a chicken race or something, but we have to do this. It's really just doing the math – it's 20 billion that's missing, so we'll just have to close that gap, that's all.
i-dc179cc902565046-70	Madam President, I would like None of the industrialised countries today have a commitment to the climate summit that meets what is said in the Paris Agreement – neither the EU nor Sweden nor, of course, the United States nor the other major players either. Our climate ambitions must be raised. I believe that what is important for these climate negotiations to move forward is that the rich world at least comes there and does its homework and says: Now we have fixed climate funding – we will help those affected by the climate crisis here and now. It is therefore positive that the Prime Minister has raised the issue of increased climate finance. But I still do not hear how much the EU intends to contribute to climate finance for the world's poorest countries. What is the amount of money that the EU is travelling to Glasgow? I would also like to ask the Prime Minister: will the Prime Minister himself be present at COP 26 in Glasgow? A large part of the world's leaders will be there.
i-dc179cc902565046-74	Madam President, I would like On the last question, the answer is yes. I will be in Glasgow and push to ensure that we keep the commitments we have made financially, in other words, with regard to the 20 billion. I cannot give precise information on what the European Union is coming with, but I have been told by both the President of the European Council and the President of the Commission that the European Union must step up its efforts. We will also do that as a country. Another thing is our national commitments and how we are actually going to reduce emissions. It is equally important that we get new commitments under the Paris Agreement mechanism and can improve and strengthen so that we can actually maintain the objective of a maximum of one and a half degrees of warming. It is the information that exists and the statements that Sweden will make.
i-XoXoXVMSveGLzx92SVC6EX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the presentation of the last night's event with the Heads of State and Government of the European Union. Not surprisingly, it was the energy issue and the elusive prices of electricity that caused the longest discussions. When you read the record in international media and comments from EU leaders, it is clear that the question of whether nuclear power should be classified as sustainable in taxonomy was, to say the least, present. Thus, the argument put forward by the Prime Minister for the meeting that the decision of the EU Board could not be followed because one cannot just throw in an issue that is not on the agenda. Of course, the mandate of the EU Board should always be respected. I regret that the Prime Minister does not share that view. But in addition, the Prime Minister never had to throw in that question, because it was already there because other EU leaders realised how relevant it actually was to the discussion. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it not the case that the question of the future of nuclear power was strengthened by the fact that other Heads of Government raised the issue, contrary to what the Prime Minister said, and that we rather failed to take part in showing leadership on a crucial issue for Sweden? Russia is not mentioned in the energy conclusions. Does this mean that it chose to turn a blind eye to the fact that the price increase is partly driven by Putin being able to control the influx of Russian gas into EU Member States? It is a direct and uneasy dependence on Russia. And what action did the Prime Minister take to underline the seriousness of this situation? Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of migration and the situation that has arisen mainly on the border between Lithuania and Belarus, it is a little unclear what really became the EU's united response. People who dream of creating a better life are exploited by dictatorships as pawns in a major foreign policy game to create mess at the EU's borders. This makes use of both individuals and the vulnerability of the Union. It was important that the Council condemned this in its conclusions, but what does it really mean in practice, and what does it mean for Sweden?
i-dc179cc902565046-82	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the energy and the electricity. It was discussed, but it was not on the agenda. They chose to throw it in anyway. I note that the result was: no difference. The countries are where the countries are. There is nothing in the conclusions on this. It depends on something. What I was trying to say is that it doesn't matter; if we were to use it all the time, nothing would happen. It's not coming in. As far as Russia is concerned, of course, we were also involved in the discussion. We have had a line there for a long time, ever since it was up to the Swedish Parliament to decide on Nordstream 2. I wrote to the European Commission, together with the then Prime Minister of Denmark, Lars L ø kke Rasmussen, about precisely that, that we must avoid dependence on Russian natural gas and that we risked a loss of independence with Nordstream 2. That's what we've got up now. There is no accusation against Russia that they have not fulfilled their commitments, but natural gas is increasingly being sent east. It is part of the price increase that turns on the price of electricity for us too. It is clear, then, that it was up, but it is not in the conclusions. With regard to migration, we also called, on the initiative of others, for the possibility of imposing more sanctions on Belarus. It also came into the conclusions. It must be possible to tighten up a little more on individuals but also on companies. It is clear to us that the airline involved in transporting people to Belarus must be covered. It is now part of the task of the Commission to review the possibility of imposing additional sanctions.
i-dc179cc902565046-86	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. It didn't make any difference, says the Prime Minister. That could be the case. But one reason why it didn't make any difference was that Sweden didn't get along, despite the mandate they had from us in the back. It is clear that the government continues to argue that nuclear power is important, because it is known that the majority of the Swedish people think so. But when it comes to seriously defending nuclear power and its preconditions, we have now got black and white that the government is not living up to its commitments. As far as migration is concerned, if I have understood correctly, there was a great deal of discussion on how to strengthen Europe's borders. I still think that the real line taken by the government on the financing of the EU's external borders is somewhat obscured. There has been some information in the media that Europe should not build walls and so on. But what was our concrete approach to strengthening the EU's external borders?
i-dc179cc902565046-90	Madam President, I would like In the latter part, we are in complete agreement. It is stated in the conclusions, on which we agree, that, of course – I do not remember it literally – we must also take responsibility for our external borders. Everyone agrees that it must be done. Otherwise, it will not work in the EU. That is in the conclusions, and we support them. That's one of them. As for the fact that there is no difference, there was no difference in substance. This discussion is not determined by a word; it is determined by the willingness of countries and private investors to invest in different types of energy. That's the decision. The issue was not on the agenda. It was not an issue to be discussed. Then, of course, it is possible for everyone to use their arguments for different things. It's everyone's free. The most important thing for me was to note that the Swedish Parliament, the House, does not support this view.
i-dc179cc902565046-93	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! It is good that the Prime Minister is not backing away from the need for a green transition. However, for us Liberals, who belonged to the majority in the European Council behind the guideline on the promotion of nuclear power, nuclear power is part of precisely the green transition. Earlier today in this House, we have heard questions about the way in which the Prime Minister put forward the position of the EU Council. We have heard the Prime Minister's reply. But I can't quite let go of the question. News media reported on Thursday evening that supporters and opponents of nuclear power and natural gas were fighting each other whether the summit would invite the Commission to make proposals for these types of energy to be included in the taxonomy. There was even a draft proposal in which taxonomics and, consequently, nuclear power were included. Finally, the whole section on taxonomics was deleted from the conclusions. We can all see that. Following the EU summit, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen commented that the EU needs nuclear energy. It is, as Mr von der Leyen said, a stable energy source. My question must still be, one more time: what was the Prime Minister's contribution to that debate this evening, when the discussions went back and forth and there was a draft on the table?
i-dc179cc902565046-96	Madam President, I would like I'll try again. I have always said that nuclear energy, as the honourable Member says, is part of the green transition. It is needed, and it will be needed for a long time. Then there is the question of whether it should be considered sustainable, and there is the question of taxonomics. Taxonomy was not on the agenda. There was no such item on the agenda. Members had nevertheless mentioned sustainability and taxonomy. I note that this was not included in the conclusions. My message in the EU Council was also, I believe, that it will not be that way because many are so strongly opposed to it. And here you have to agree. There are enough against – hence this. I don't think I can explain it anymore. However, we agree on this issue of green conversion and the importance of nuclear power. That is why we concluded the long-term agreement. Unfortunately, some parties have left it. It would have been better to have a really broad agreement to ensure long-term perspectives on investments in all energy, including nuclear power. We had such an agreement. Now, unfortunately, some have withdrawn. But let's try making another one.
i-dc179cc902565046-99	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. What the Prime Minister brings out is coming back. I understand that, because the questions are about the same. But there is a need on our part to drill a little deeper into this. The answer was that, as the Prime Minister put it, there is no majority in the Swedish Parliament for Nuclear Power and that it therefore chose to go after the Riksdag rather than the EU Board. The question then becomes almost principled. There is a majority in the Swedish Parliament for a NATO option. However, the government has still not moved forward with a NATO option – of course it is not doing so within the framework of the EU. When do you listen to the majority, and when do you not?
i-dc179cc902565046-103	Madam President, I would like What I'm trying to say is that I think there is a broad view in the Swedish parliament that nuclear power is important here and now and that it will be for the future green climate change. We'll follow that. The question here was whether it should be described as sustainable and therefore should enter the taxonomy. This is another issue, for which I believe there is no support in the Swedish Parliament. Otherwise, we agree on the importance. That's how it's gonna be. Nuclear power accounts for a large part of our electricity supply and will do so in the future. That is why I really believe that there is agreement on this. Maybe we should focus on it.
i-dc179cc902565046-105	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to give you a piece of information about why the issue of sustainable nuclear energy was not raised at the Council meeting. I am right to say to the Prime Minister that he has acted fully in accordance with the parliamentary committee's report on the work of the EU Board, which all parliamentary parties supported and which was carried out and presented to Parliament in 2018. In my opinion, this was a letter mandate. This is documented, and I think the parliamentary parties should read it through. There was strong criticism of the Polish National Conservative Government for having placed the Polish judiciary under its control in breach of EU rules. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister was proactive on this point. On the basis of the experience of 66 European Councils, I wonder how the Prime Minister considers the possibility that the Commission's various methods of sanctions will ultimately lead Poland to adapt to current EU regulations.
i-dc179cc902565046-107	Madam President, I would like It's a $10,000 question. It is clear that in the argumentation and rhetoric Poland stands up for what they have done and that they have done the right thing. They received support from a few Member States. However, a large majority felt that this is not right and that it risks undermining the whole of the EU and its legitimacy if a Member State can choose when to comply with EU law and when it does not have to do so. The discussion will, of course, continue. Everyone wants to find a solution that is not the most dramatic. My view is that the Commission stands up to push the importance of complying with the EU's fundamental values, statutes and regulations. Under the Treaty, it is also the Commission's task to ensure that Member States do so. Otherwise, as I said, this is being undermined gradually. I do not want to speculate on exactly what the conclusion is in concrete action, but I have experienced nothing but that the Commission intends to stand up for our regulatory framework. As I have already mentioned, it is a good thing that we get the use of the conditionality regulation linked to the budget and the payment of money. We have said that we support this. We've been pushing to get it in, and now it's there. It's another tool. But we have also said that we do not intend to exclude any of the Commission's available funds, because here we need to stand up for the regulatory framework.
i-dc179cc902565046-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers. I understand that this is a complex issue. We'll see the future. I would like to thank you personally, Prime Minister, for your participation in 66 European Councils. This has also involved 66 consultations in the Swedish parliament and 66 re-reports. Many thanks from me as President of the EU Board! I wish you the best of luck with future business. I hope we will see each other in one way or another in the future. Thank you and good luck!
i-dc179cc902565046-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you for those words. They're warming up. I, too, believe that we will see each other in the future. I wish Parliament every success and success in the continued work of the European Union. This is an important part of Sweden.
i-dc179cc902565046-115	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I will start with a comment on energy prices, on which there was a major discussion. The Prime Minister mentioned that some Member States felt that climate change was moving too fast. I agree with what the Prime Minister said, that is to say, it is the opposite. Climate change is moving too slowly. We urgently need to expand renewable energy, look at energy storage and so on, as the Prime Minister mentioned. This is very important both for the climate issue and from a safety point of view. I would also like to raise trade issues, which were raised for discussion. In its risk report, the World Economic Forum has addressed not only climate but also biodiversity as an area where there are very high risks to the world and the business world. It is very important that ambitious sustainability chapters are included in free trade agreements and that they are also implemented. For example, they should be in line with the Paris Agreement. Did the Prime Minister raise the sustainability aspect in connection with the free trade discussion held at the summit? Finally, I would like to raise the issue of Poland, as did the President of the European Council. The situation is very serious now that the National Conservative Government is trying to put the Court under its control. Many Member States were very agitated and critical of this, and the tone that came from Poland was also agitated. Europe's added value lies in its values of democracy and the rule of law, and that is extremely important. I would like to hear more about this urgent issue. Which way does the Prime Minister look forward? When can we find a solution to this?
i-dc179cc902565046-120	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view on the link between energy prices and climate change. It shows how urgent it is for renewables. It's perfectly clear. This discussion will remain. Many people are very dependent on gas, coal and more. Therefore, we must help each other to support them in their transit to something else. That's what's going on. As far as the issue of trade and climate is concerned, this is our view. We have expressed it several times. What we wanted to talk about during this discussion above all was that we should not just focus on what is defensive, limiting and defending. The most important perspective was what I read out in my re-report, namely that 85% of world growth will take place outside the EU, and if we are to have it, we must have good trade relations. Then you can't stop. I understood that there is a strong commitment to this approach. However, this does not mean letting go of all other issues, such as climate, biodiversity and social factors. Some point out in the discussion that we are putting too much on the trade agreements so that it itself becomes restrictive. But I think it is important to bring such factors with us so that we can live up to our commitments in various respects. As Amanda Palmstierna says, the issue of Poland is incredibly important. This is, in fact, a debate on the whole existence of the European Union. It will certainly not be decided here and now, but ultimately we cannot allow this to be undermined, because then the whole of Europe risks cracking. It is therefore difficult to know exactly where it will go. The Commission has the task of pushing the matter forward and then it will choose the measure that it considers to be the most important.
i-dc179cc902565046-125	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Let me comment on the trade discussion. It is, of course, larger and has been mentioned on several occasions; that is quite right. But that is why it is important to see trade and aid side by side, considering that growth is growing very much in other countries, so that developing countries have capacity building and do not need to take a detour around various unsustainable forms of industrial development. They need to be able to get on the right foot right away. Like the Chairman of the EU Board, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister for his participation in all these EU summits and public meetings of the EU Board before these meetings and for subsequent reports. I thank the Prime Minister for his genuine commitment to climate issues, democracy, the rule of law and social issues.
i-dc179cc902565046-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your kind words! It is absolutely right that the link should be found in terms of trade. Sweden has pushed for open and fair trade. We are one of the few countries that give 1% of GDP to development aid. Not many countries do. This means a great deal to these countries' ability to develop their economies. That is why this should be done in a climate-smart and socially acceptable and good way. I am absolutely convinced that these issues will be included as parameters in the development of both trade and aid, and that is the right way to go. We have a lot of work to do. Unfortunately, we see that the democratic space in the world is shrinking, so we still have a lot to do.
i-dc179cc902565046-131	Madam President, I would like In fact, I have been a little upset when I listened to the discussion and the Prime Minister's reply. Firstly, I react very strongly to the assertion that the issue of the role of nuclear power in taxonomy should not have been on the agenda, given that it was other countries that highlighted the issue, including Finland, which is governed by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Both parties in Finland believe that nuclear power should be considered sustainable within taxonomics. I only note that the Social Democrats and the Green Party in Sweden make a completely different assessment from the corresponding parties in our neighbouring country. Secondly, I respond to the Prime Minister talking about false majorities in our committees and saying that there is no support in Parliament for the Prime Minister pushing the issue of the role of nuclear power in taxonomy. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he knows that there is no support in the Swedish Parliament for this issue. As far as I know, we have had no debate or vote in Parliament on the role of nuclear power in taxonomy. The issue has only been raised in some of Parliament's committees, including in the Finance Committee, where we have a majority in favour of nuclear power being regarded as sustainable in taxonomy, and in the EU Board, where we also have a majority in favour of nuclear power being considered sustainable in taxonomy. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister refuses to follow the instructions of the EU Board. In fact, it is the first time, at least since I joined the EU Council, that the Prime Minister goes directly against what the EU Council decides. Above all, I would like to know what the Prime Minister bases his assessment on when he argues that there is no support in Parliament's Chamber.
i-dc179cc902565046-136	Madam President, I would like The answer to whether this question was on the agenda is obvious: No, it was not. Then no one can check exactly what all Members say at a meeting. You can take this issue in, but it was not on the agenda for the meeting. It is quite obvious, and it can be seen. There is no doubt about it. The fact that there is no support in this House was also something that the President of the EU Board, plus one member, said during the meeting of the EU Board. There was no one who argued against and said, yes, there is, but it was a question of the decision of the EU Council. Just as Jan Ericson says – he has been around for a long time – this is the first time that the government has not complied with the decision of the EU Board. That's exactly how it is. We seek support for Sweden's position in the European Council on all issues. This is an exception. I've explained the reasons. I can't explain this any more than I've already done. I stand by my opinion.
i-dc179cc902565046-139	Madam President, I would like I get the feeling that the Prime Minister mixes the cards away by using two completely different arguments. First, he says that he would have pushed the question if it had been on the agenda, but that it was not on the agenda and therefore he did not run it. But he also says that he would not have pushed the issue regardless, because there was no support in this House for this position. If it is the case that the main reason is that there is no support in this House, why do we use the argument at all that the issue was not on the agenda and try to blame it when the media are interested in the issue? It will be a very strange argument, I think. But still: how does the Prime Minister know that there is no support in Parliament for this matter, when it has never been put to the vote in Parliament?
i-dc179cc902565046-141	Madam President, I would like I can only answer as I did last time on that question. There is no more answer to the question. This was the message that was given in the EU Council, and no one argued against it from time to time. The main issue is nuclear power and sustainability, not whether or not this was on the agenda. I can only say that it was not. It would not be discussed taxonomy. But no one can say exactly what all 27 Members will raise during a discussion. I note, however, that it is not included in the conclusions. That would never have been included in the conclusions. My position is based on the fact that the Swedish Parliament does not have this idea of sustainability and nuclear power. On the other hand, we agree on the importance of nuclear power. It is important here and now and will be important for a long time to come. It will be part of our energy mix.
i-dc179cc902565046-150	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me what effects the new risk tax is expected to have on growth, employment and household finances. Financial crises are costly. Both Sweden and other countries have experienced it. The purpose of the risk tax is to strengthen public finances in order to create scope for coping with a future financial crisis. With stronger public finances, Sweden is better equipped to meet challenges and implement the necessary measures in a crisis situation. The risk tax is payable by the largest credit institutions, but has no link to the number of employees. The distribution of the financial burden of the tax in the short and long term is an empirical issue. This depends, inter alia, on the competitive situation in the market. Here it is important to remember that in recent years the anchors have had corporate tax reductions of the same magnitude as the planned risk tax. If there is such a big surge in the banking sector as it is sometimes claimed, the banks should also be able to tell how the large corporate tax reductions have benefited banking customers. As the proposal strengthens public finances and makes the economy more resilient to financial crises, the tax generally contributes to less uncertainty and risk for businesses and households. This is expected to lead to increased investment and growth. An overall assessment is therefore that the proposal has no significant impact on economic growth and sustainable employment in the economy as a whole.
i-dc179cc902565046-155	Madam President, I would like Sweden is now facing a wide range of tax increases. Some of them can be found in the Government's draft budget. Some of them have already been implemented. A lot of the tax increases ahead have been announced by Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats in various ways. This can be about the tax proposals that Magdalena Andersson has raised in his manifesto and which include that families who own their residents should receive a reduced interest deduction. It will cost thousands of dollars a month for ordinary families with ordinary mortgages. This can be about what has been proposed by the Social Democrats here in Stockholm, in Skåne and in Gothenburg about a restored property tax. One of the taxes already presented in the bomb mat of tax increases that Magdalena Andersson has now rolled out is the tax on pension savings and mortgages via the banking sector. That is what we are discussing here today. Madam President, I would like We are used to relatively casual or casual assessments by the Minister of Finance when it comes to tax policy and economic policy. It's been rough and unclear. The Council of Finance Ministers has made a lot of criticism of this. The surplus target has not been met, does not report correctly and so on. But not having thought about who will pay the tax at all is still remarkable, even against the somewhat shaky background of financial policy from Magdalena Andersson's side. After all, someone has to pay the tax in the end. Magdalena Andersson was early in the process of abolishing the kind of assessments and calculations that had previously made Sweden a very serious country when it came to fiscal policy. It disappeared and was removed from the accounts and replaced with tables with plus and minus signs that more indicated that it was reading to children rather than a serious assessment of the country's economy and its economic policy. The consequences have also not been missed with the worst job development throughout the European Union during Magdalena Andersson's time. In no other EU country has unemployment increased. It has done so in Sweden. Growth is low. The idea of, for example, flock immunity that was allowed to continue had devastating consequences for life and health. In short, Madam President, when you stop assessing the consequences of politics, the policy will end up being substandard. This is what we have seen and experienced in Sweden. One such example where the impact of politics is not assessed is when Magdalena Andersson has focused on new opinion-forming authorities. However, for example, Statistics Sweden and the Swedish Tax Agency have not received sufficient resources to, for example, create order and order in the population accounts. Another example is the lack of resources in the police. But there have been plenty of resources in Magdalena Andersson's budget to increase contributions and make it less profitable to work. Before introducing this time a tax of about 5 billion on those who work – either on those who have mortgages or on those who are or are going to be retired – one would wish the assessment were there anyway. I need to repeat the question, because the Minister of Finance is not answering it. Who will actually pay this tax? SEK 5 billion is a lot of money. The country's pensioners and mortgage holders are, of course, concerned that this tax will now be directed at them. The question is how the Minister for Finance estimates that the tax will be distributed. Does it benefit most from those who have occupational pensions or are going to have occupational pensions in the future, or does it benefit most from those who currently have mortgages? Somewhere from there comes the SEK 5 billion that Magdalena Andersson will use for grant increases.
i-dc179cc902565046-166	Madam President, I would like It is as always interesting to listen to Niklas Wykman. I'll just make a few comments. Before the Corona crisis, 350 000 more people had been employed since Stefan Löfven took office compared to when Niklas Wykman worked in the Ministry of Finance. It was a higher proportion of the population who had employment during the deepest crisis since the Second World War than at the time that Niklas Wykman worked in the Ministry of Finance. I'm not sure everyone would describe it as a job failure. On the other hand, we have been very successful in getting not least foreign-born women back into the labour market, after we have abolished the custody allowance introduced by the Moderates and re-introduced parental insurance so that more foreign-born women come in. It may also be worth pointing out that next year the police will have more resources than they themselves have demanded. As far as the bank tax is concerned, it is just as I have answered an empirical question that is very much about the competitive situation on the market. The large banks have had major tax cuts under this government which correspond to the tax increase that is now coming. This means that over time it should be plus minus zero.
i-dc179cc902565046-171	Madam President, I would like The casual and casual approach to public finances and tax policy from Magdalena Andersson are recognized. When Magdalena Andersson took office as Minister of Finance, it was quickly important to remove assessments of the impact of politics. In the past, they were clearly presented to citizens, the media and expert authorities. They were able to examine what the policy expected from the measures taken. Of course, not all assessments were correct. Then one could be criticized on that basis, and then one could redo and do the right thing. Magdalena Andersson is not interested in this type of testing and intellectual activity. Serious assessments based on research have been exchanged for opinion and for plus and minus tables that may speak more about how a child thinks about economy than how a country should be managed. This kind of pompous and negligent behaviour has had serious consequences for Sweden. The Swedish people have seen through the kind of empty rhetoric that Magdalena Andersson uses to make it go so well, that more work and so on, because that is not the reality. Hundreds of thousands of people can't make their own living. Unemployment is very high. It is only in Sweden that unemployment has increased during the period that Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance. In all other European countries it has declined. The Swedish people no longer go on Magdalena Andersson's various claims. Magdalena Andersson promised that we would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. We got the fourth, fifth highest unemployment rate instead. Now all this is to be compensated by all people paying even more in taxes. They will also pay even more taxes. We have already seen some of those taxes. The plastic bag tax is one example. It has made it cost, for example, 20 to 30 SEK for a family with children to go shopping if they have forgotten the Environmental Party fabric bags at home. It has been devastating for trade, and it creates a lot of trouble in everyday life. It also shows very clearly that in the end someone is going to pay. It is the core issue of the tax on occupational pensions and mortgages that Magdalena Andersson will now introduce and call risk tax, bank tax or whatever you want. Who's supposed to pay? Madam President, I would like Surely it cannot be that we have a finance minister who has introduced a tax of SEK 5 billion – SEK 5 000 million – without having done analysis or assessment of who pays it in the economy. How does this treasure beat? Madam President, I would like You usually talk about tax incidences. It is in ordinary Swedish: Who is it that actually pays? A tax on a business can be paid either by the owner of the business or by the customers of the business. No one else is available. If you look at the bank's customers, about half of all Swedish households have mortgages, and then they will have to pay. Does Magdalena Andersson have any idea how much more expensive mortgages will be with the new tax on banks? Or is it the owners who will pay? In that case, it is, to a large extent, occupational pension schemes that have to pay, i.e. that most working people's future pension in such cases should shrink. One of the two groups will be. It will be either the mortgage holders or those who expect to receive an occupational pension. My question to Magdalena Andersson is: What is the distribution between these two groups? Has such an analysis ever been carried out at the Ministry of Finance, and if so, can it be consulted?
i-dc179cc902565046-184	Madam President, I would like I have answered the question several times. But Niklas Wykman doesn't seem very interested in hearing. We'll raise the tax by $5,000 million. That is quite correct. We have just before that reduced the tax by SEK 5,000 million. For borrowers, it should then be plus minus zero. With regard to assessments that we have included in the budget, it is something that we have been discussing and debating for seven years now. It is also a question that I have answered a number of times. Niklas Wykman thinks it is unserious and unintellectual not to have precise figures for what every reform can mean in numbers in terms of increased or reduced employment. My assessment, as I have repeated on several occasions over the last seven years, is that it is unserious and unintellectual to have precise assessments of the impact of each reform. There is too much confidence interval, too much uncertainty, in those figures, and I do not think it is serious and intellectual. It is an assessment that I make from my background as a researcher on those particular issues. There we make different assessments, quite simply. The bank tax that we are discussing now is, of course, a proposal that originally comes from the Moderates. When Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance, what assessment was made of what this tax would mean for employment? What was the background to the thought that this was a good treasure then but no longer? It can't just be that one has ended up in opposition, lost the ambition to be a government-supporting party and listened too much to the lobbyists from the Bankers' Association, where by the way a State Secretary who worked at the Ministry of Finance when this was proposed is the CEO.
i-dc179cc902565046-191	Madam President, I would like It's fun that Magdalena Andersson and I share research backgrounds in economics. On the other hand, one may have to say that it is a bit difficult to take a person seriously who, from that experience, has taken with him that you should not make estimates and assessments of the policies that you pursue. It is, of course, at the heart of research and, for that matter, of political responsibility that every effort can be made to make assessments and estimates of the impact of policy. But the Swedish people can of course evaluate it themselves. Is it me or Magdalena Andersson who has been right? I have always argued that the kind of hasty and casual fiscal policy that the government pursues would lead to increased unemployment, lower growth and less used tax money. Magdalena Andersson, for her part, has meant that it is calm – leave this to the Social Democracy, and we will fix it! Now we've seen what's happened. Job development is the worst in Europe, and we have escalating violence on our streets. There has been money left for opinion-forming authorities, but there has not been money for the Swedish Tax Agency and Statistics Sweden to keep track of who actually lives in this country. Nor has there been any money for the police to be able to have more employees and increased powers. Possibly now, five over twelve, more money will be added. However, this development has been going on in Sweden for a long time, and instead Magdalena Andersson has chosen to expand the benefit systems. The reason why this bad tax was not introduced during the time that the Moderates ruled was simply because the tax is not good. It is neither feasible in a good or fair way nor has desirable effects in the Swedish economy. Now we will see if Sweden is able to introduce this tax at all or if, as usual, there will be a big hole in Magdalena Andersson's budget where there will be a loss of SEK 5 billion. Madam President, I would like Now is the time – one last chance for Magdalena Andersson to answer the question: Who will pay this tax? Is it the banks' customers, that is, those who have mortgages, who have to pay 5 billion extra each year? It is, of course, to a large extent a question of working families who will in another way be involved in paying for Magdalena Andersson's various premium increases. Or is it the bank's owner, to a large extent occupational pension companies, i.e. the future pensioners in Sweden, who will now have to pay for the very large grant costs in Sweden that one can expect to be even larger when the benefit systems will be more generous and accessible to more people? Madam President, I would like It is no wonder that there are different political opinions, opinions and values. I'm moderate. As Moderates, we appreciate the work line. We always think that working should pay off. We think it is good that it is started and run companies and have nothing against the fact that the person who works or starts a business also benefits from it. On the contrary, we think it is a good thing and that it drives society and the whole country forward. The Social Democrats think that we should increase the benefit systems and do not think that we should necessarily have to work for our livelihoods. These are known facts. On the other hand, it should be possible to agree that the consequences of the policy should be presented at least as carefully as possible. Are they the ones who will receive a pension in the future who will pay, or are they the ones who have mortgages today? There must be an answer to that, Magdalena Andersson.
i-dc179cc902565046-198	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman may sound like a parrot. No matter how much I answer the question, Niklas Wykman asks the same question again and pretends he has not received an answer. I can answer again. It is because we have just reduced the tax by 5 billion, and now we are raising it by about 5 billion. It'll be plus minus zero. So no one has to pay more than in the original situation. Niklas Wykman says that you should make assessments as best you can, and that's exactly what we do. We make assessments based on research and science, and we report them in a way that I judge to be both intellectually and seriously—much more so than showing precise figures that have such a large confidence interval that they become, as I judge it, meaningless. We are therefore doing exactly what Mr Wykman is asking, if not in the way that Niklas Wykman wishes. I think this is very serious. As far as bank taxes are concerned, it is true that the Moderates did not impose bank taxes. The process had not progressed far enough. However, the choice was made to introduce the bank tax, which is why I assume that Niklas Wykman had made a serious assessment of its impact. Then you wouldn't have started with a tax cut. Niklas Wykman says we have holes in the budget. I can only say that when Niklas Wykman left the Ministry of Finance, we had a structural deficit of approximately 35 billion. Now again, we have order in public finances. He also says that Moderates like when people work. Then one should like Social Democratic politics, because there are more people working now than when Niklas Wykman ruled. Then he says it's a good thing that fewer people live on subsidies. Now there are fewer people living on compensation and grants than when Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance. Niklas Wykman should be pleased that it is a Social Democratic-led government and a Social-Democratic Minister of Finance.
i-dc179cc902565046-203	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked Minister Hans Dahlgren how he discusses the requirements for a certain expenditure to be considered as promoting the purposes of the EU Recovery Fund. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. The Recovery Fund manages EU borrowing to finance recovery from covid-19 through several instruments. These include, among other things, the Recovery Facility, which is the largest instrument in terms of volume within the Recovery Fund, but also React-EU, the Fair Conversion Funds and Invest EU. I take this as referring to the recovery facility. The purpose of the facility is to promote the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the Union. This will be done, inter alia, by improving Member States' growth potential and by promoting sustainable and high quality growth and employment. The Regulation specifies a number of criteria that need to be met in order for a Member State to receive financial support. These include Member States submitting recovery plans with proposals for both investment and reform. The proposals shall be consistent with the country's specific recommendations or other challenges identified in the European Semester. In addition, at least 37% of the facility's funding must be allocated to the green changeover and at least 20% to the digital transformation. In order to ensure that the money is spent in accordance with the purpose of the facility, sufficient arrangements are also required to monitor implementation and to prevent and avoid corruption, fraud and conflicts of interest. Funding is paid out as Member States implement the planned measures. The Commission's task is to examine compliance with the requirements and criteria and to make a recommendation to the Council for a decision. In the reviews, the Commission estimates how much recovery plans can contribute to Member States' growth. The Commission estimates that on average, the Recovery Facility contributes to increasing the EU's GDP by around 1.5% to 2026. This does not include further growth of the structural reforms of the plans. The Government considers that the requirements and criteria contained in the Regulation contribute to promoting the purpose of the Recovery Facility. Furthermore, the Government has stated in the Commission's assessment that the implementing decisions that have been approved so far meet the criteria of the Regulation.
i-dc179cc902565046-208	Madam President, I would like Member States are currently developing so-called recovery plans, i.e. an application to the EU for access to the so-called recovery fund. The country specifically describes what you want to do with the money. As usual with regard to the EU, Madam President, Sweden will have to pay a lot and get some support back. At the same time, the objectives are very unclear. That is why I thought that the Government would have the chance to explain how the Swedish Government thought when it supported Greece's proposal for a recovery plan. We should remember that the aim is to counter the economic problems caused by the pandemic. We can begin by looking at page 11, with suggestions to renovate the Athens promenade for a few million. It will be more bike friendly. It is certainly nice in itself, but how will it strengthen economic growth? Maybe Magdalena Andersson can explain. Let's move on to page 58, where there are proposals for programmes for updating digital skills for conscripts. Here one might wonder how the Greek military achieves economic growth. One reason why Greece ended up in a precarious economic situation a few years ago was that the country's government borrowed a lot of money, among other things to finance an oversized military – by the way – one of the EU's most corrupt. Public procurement of defence equipment in Greece is a tragic story. I would like to hear a reference to why military expenditure should be acceptable in any recovery plans. Let us move on to proposals to create a digital tourist map. Anyone who has accepted this proposal obviously has no interest whatsoever in technology. There are already a number of very good apps that do this, such as Tripadvisor. The map is updated by users themselves using a smart system. Magdalena Andersson is happy to explain why she believes that Swedish tax money should be used to ensure that the Greek government will enter and compete with the tech giants in the United States at home. It's obviously a waste of money. We jump on to page 90, where there are proposals for the renovation of the Greek employment agency. This is certainly also much needed in itself. In my youth, I was once visiting Centro Emprego in Portugal, that is, Portugal's employment service. If I don't remember wrong, a little bit of paint was needed, but is it because the employment office's premises are crappy that the Greeks are unemployed? I seriously doubt that. Perhaps the Government has a different view. If the premises are a little old, perhaps the business can be moved outdoors to the new, nice promenade, which we have already paid for. What do I know? Now I think it is time for the Government to put the cards on the table and explain itself. In what way will Greece's economy be strengthened by a new promenade in Athens on which to cycle, IT courses for conscripts, a tourist map that already exists today and fine facilities for employment services? I am particularly interested in hearing how the Government is discussing the conscripts. Does she count that proposal as a military expense? If she counts it as a military expense, as it seems, how can it fit the plans?
i-dc179cc902565046-215	Madam President, I would like Of course, if Ludvig Aspling wants to discuss individual points in each country's recovery plan, it is possible to do so. In particular, it would have been possible to do so when the plans were reviewed by the EU Board. I propose that Ludvig Aspling should address these points in individual interpellations, if he wishes to go through each point. Of course, I do not have all the points in front of me and the precise argument that these points are on the list, but there is the possibility of doing such work in committee, not least in view of approving the plans.
i-dc179cc902565046-216	Madam President, I would like The Government says here that it is too much to demand that one of the thousands of employees in the Government Office actually sit down and read through the recovery plans before the government gives them its approval. Is that really too much to ask? It's a rhetorical question. I don't think so. The Government has a different view. Anyway! We are jumping on to social action in Greece. Here are some real gems, which should therefore be paid by Swedish taxpayers: A program for the promotion of exercise and healthy diet and for counteracting alcohol abuse. Again, I ask what the link is to economic growth. How will this create robust and strong economic growth in Greece? I think it is unclear. I can also note that the Greeks have not submitted any evidence that diet in Greece would be particularly poor. If you think purely anecdotal, my opinion is the opposite: olive oil, salads and so on. And according to the OECD – and this is important – the Greeks are the people in Europe who drink the least alcohol. Those who drink too much alcohol in Greece, Magdalena Andersson, are Swedes! It is more appropriate that it is we who get the money for the work on alcohol prevention. Furthermore, the Greeks live on average 81 years, compared with Swedes who live on average 82 years. It's almost the same. So why should we pay for this? Magdalena Andersson – come on! We jump on to page 152, where new construction and renovation of the courts' premises are taken up. Again, I wonder where the link to economic growth is. Is it because the premises are messy that the Greeks have problems with corruption and inefficiencies in the judiciary? I may be wrong, but I doubt that is the case. We then jump on to pages 176 to 177, which are interesting from the point of view of the environment. This is where motorways and airports are taken up, for which we will pay. This includes a motorway on Crete that will connect the cities of Rethymnon, Heraklion and Agios Nikolaos – Central Greece's motorway. I apologise if there may be a Greek looking at this because I am sure I mispronounced the names. As the crown of the work, we will also pay for an upgrade of 13 regional airports. I think that investment in motorways and airports is particularly interesting, Madam President. I am following what this government says and is doing otherwise, even outside the EU Council. It is well known that the government wants to close down certain regional airports, hard-tax flights, ban certain shorter routes, and so on – except when the Minister for Environment and Climate Change himself is going to Copenhagen. Then he'll have to fly. Some are a little more equal than others, as it is said. In addition, the government wants the world's highest fuel prices and ban diesel and petrol cars. But this only seems to apply in Sweden. In Greece, apparently, more flying and increased driving are completely unproblematic. The government is behind this, which is something strange. I would like to put it on record that the proportion of electric cars in Greece is about 1%, which is considerably less than in Sweden. It is almost that one starts to suspect that the ministers do not mean what they say, but that they are the ones who want to punish Swedes who live in rural areas. So, Magdalena Andersson, now the minister gets the ball so she can explain how it got so crazy.
i-dc179cc902565046-225	Madam President, I would like It is a process for how the plans are reviewed. There is a dialogue between the Commission and the individual country. The Commission is, of course, carefully examining the plans to ensure that they are in line with the country-specific recommendations and the rest of the European Semester. Of course, we from the Swedish side are looking at the plans and not least the Commission's opinion on the plans. There are certainly arguments for why each of those points is included in the plan, but since the government has received 15 to 20 plans, and each plan contains hundreds of points, and although I am known to have a lot in my mind, I cannot every argument for every specific point of the individual countries' plans. It has also been possible for the Swedish Democrats to ask those questions in the committees, but I know that they have not done so. There is, of course, the opportunity to ask the specific questions, but then it is good if I or any other minister who is going to answer the questions is given the opportunity to prepare us. We have great work capacity and great capacity to keep things in mind. But to be honest, I don't think anyone expects us to keep all thousands of individual points in mind, nor does Ludvig Aspling. I don't think that's the purpose of the interpellation.
i-dc179cc902565046-228	Madam President, I would like I am not asking the Government to be responsible for the dialogue that takes place between the Commission and the individual country. It is not a matter of concern to the Swedish parliament. I note that Magdalena Andersson says that perhaps there is something else in the Council of Ministers that should have answered this question. Yes, I put the interpellation to Hans Dahlgren from the beginning. In the answer, Magdalena Andersson specifically said that it is her job to answer it, so it is a little late to change that now. I don't expect the government to have everything in its head either. That's a lot of points. What I expect is that someone within the Government Office should have read through these plans and reacted to those points that are obviously completely unreasonable, such as military spending, a new fine promenade in Athens or whatever it is – motorways and airports, things that the government wants to stop or close here in Sweden. The question that I have to ask Magdalena Andersson is how it is possible that the government chooses to sign this, either without anyone at the Government Office having read through the papers – if we are to be honest, that is what it looks like – or after someone has read through these papers and said: Yes, but this seems normal. It's nothing weird. It goes without saying that a new tourist map is what is needed in Greece. It is obvious that we will upgrade the airports there while we will close the regional airports in Sweden. That makes perfect sense. It is quite clear that the Government Office is not doing its job. Then I also understand that it is perhaps not Magdalena Andersson personally who should go through this. But for God's sake, she has hundreds of employees! Someone must have time to sit down and read through these papers before the government gives its approval. Or am I wrong, Madam President?
i-dc179cc902565046-233	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is a process with all these plans in which the Commission has a very close dialogue with the countries preparing the plans. The other Member States have transparency in this process, in the Commission's opinion and, of course, also in the plan that the individual countries have come up with. This is a job we did at the Ministry of Finance. There's nothing strange about that. I don't understand why Ludvig Aspling is trying to suspect it as if we haven't done a solid job. Of course, we have done so with these plans. When I said that I do not know if it is I who will stand here it was because we in the Social Democrats have a party congress nearby and it is not obvious what work I will have after that. Having said that and given what Ludvig Aspling has said here, I think it is important to point out that we are also investing in motorways in Sweden. We have just presented the largest infrastructure bill in modern times. It includes large resources for the maintenance of both rail and road throughout the country but also for new construction of both roads and railways throughout the country. A new, large highway is built not far from the Parliament building. During the pandemic, we have also concentrated on regional airports in order to survive the pandemic. I can only say that as it sounds when Ludvig Aspling talks about the government's infrastructure policy, it is not in line with the proposals that the government has submitted to Parliament.
