i-5ed380af12220745-2	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that evidence-based care is made available to people who have been subjected to sexual abuse in childhood and how I intend to work to ensure that health care personnel have received evidence-based training in specialised care for sexually traumatised patients. First of all, I would like to point out that the Government's objective is that all victims of sexual violence, regardless of their nature and whether the victim is a child or an adult, should have access to good care based on the best available knowledge. Sweden is and must be a leading country in the work to prevent and combat all forms of violence. This includes strengthening the ability to support those exposed. However, as Marléne Lund Kopparklint may know, it is the regions that are responsible for the majority of healthcare, which includes the treatment of sexual violence. It is therefore up to the regions to decide how healthcare should be organised in order to meet the needs of the patient group and what training measures should be taken. Special specialist clinics for sex offenders are one way of organising care, but, as I mentioned just now, it is not the government but the regions that decide how to organise care in the best way to meet patients' needs. However, as I have mentioned before, the government has seen the need for national efforts to meet the challenges that exist in this part of the care. This is also the background to the supplementary agreement in the field of women's health and maternity care between the State and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions that has been signed for 2021 and that includes investments in the care of people who have been subjected to sexual violence. The aim of the initiative is precisely to stimulate a strengthened and long-term sustainable competence and equal care throughout the country for people who have been exposed to sexual violence, including a clear and coherent healthcare chain. Despite the current pandemic, extensive development work has been carried out by the regions with the support of the funds provided by the agreement. The survey carried out by SKR on the 2020 work shows that 16 regions plan to implement actions in 2021 aimed at strengthening the care of victims of sexual violence. These include efforts to understand the needs picture as well as inventories or surveys of how the care process looks like but also to start special clinics. The Government has also decided on several official assignments to, among other things, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Inspection for Health and Social Care aimed at supporting the principals in the further development of health care. Finally, I would like to mention the package of measures for the continued work on preventing and combating men's violence against women announced by the government this summer. It is clear from paragraphs 14 and 15 of the package of measures that efforts must be made to improve the situation of women who are victims of violence. We will have to come back to the way in which these efforts will be designed in special order. Finally, I would like to say that this area is a priority of the government and will continue to be so.
i-5ed380af12220745-8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. My interpellation involved an 11-year-old girl who asked what care there is for her. For six years she has been the victim of sex crimes by her so-called – no, I don't want to mention him as a father. The perpetrator was sentenced to ten years in prison. Let's call her Little F. I will return to this girl. I would like to start by saying: disrespectful, shameful and reckless. Then I would like to continue by quoting the Minister for Social Affairs: Sweden is and should be a pioneer country. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Excuse my frustration! It will permeate this entire speech. But children's lives are actually at stake. When, Madam President, did the government set this objective? Yesterday, right? Since this has gone to hell, I find it hard to believe that the government with Minister of Social Affairs Hallengren at its head is so much to save children and adults from the suffering of sexual crimes and child abuse. Nothing has happened, even though criticism has been brought forward from various quarters for a long time. With all due respect for mapping processes – that time is over. If the government had taken action, there would not have been 1 000 people in line in the Stockholm region alone to Wonsa, the only specialist clinic that has the appropriate trauma treatment required to treat sex crime victims. It had not been the case that 93 percent of those who apply to this clinic say that they have already tried to get help from the health care system but have had to go to Wonsa. Madam President, I would like Patients who come to Wonsa feel that they are not being helped by the healthcare system. It also experiences Little F. They still rate for PTSD and depression. The risk of suicide attempts is increased for sex offenders and adolescents after contact with the care. Why does the Minister think this is the case if the care works well? Instead of going on and on, as I believe Minister Hallengren is doing, the Minister should ensure the establishment of a national centre for clinical methodology development and research with the task of supporting the regions in this. Then I don't understand the minister's throwing back and forth. One moment the Minister says that it is not the government's responsibility and role to govern health care but that it is the regions that should do this. In the next second, the Minister says that it is the government that does it when it sees the need for it. How many arguments does the Minister need to have to understand that there is a huge need for adequate care for people who have been sexually abused in childhood? This criticism also brings forward. Now it is important that we ensure that there is a clear chain of care. When the regions are unable to do so, who will take responsibility if not the parliament and the government? What further arguments does the Minister of Social Affairs need?
i-5ed380af12220745-16	Madam President, I would like In this section, I will focus on child sexual abuse. It's more common than we think. In 2007, a survey showed that one out of ten girls and one out of twenty boys had been sexually exposed. Just recently, the General Barnhuset Foundation came with its survey of sexual abuse of children. It showed that one in five children is exposed. This means that there are six children in every school class in Sweden who are victims of sexual abuse. Those are scary numbers. Even more horrendous is it when you consider that behind each number there is a face on a defenseless girl or boy. The consequences of childhood sexual abuse are enormous for children, their families, other people close to them and for society at large. These children are more likely to expose others to violence and abuse later in life, and all children are entitled to a safe childhood. According to Agenda 2030, the government has also committed itself to ensuring that all forms of violence and torture against children are eliminated, and yet it is increasing. The fact that as many as 25 per cent of Sweden's children are victims of sexual abuse requires concrete action. This issue should be at the top of the agenda. I thank the Minister for his reply. I read that the aim is for all children who have been victims of sexual violence to have access to good care. But the big question mark remains: How? In his reply, the Minister also refers to the responsibility of the regions. The responsibility lies with the regions. Nevertheless, I would like to remind the Minister that the government itself initiated a project with the Foundation General Barnhuset, which worked for three years to develop a model for the support and treatment of children who have been victims of sexual abuse, sexual violence or other physical violence. This work was done in close cooperation with five regions in Sweden. A model was simply developed. The background to the project was that children who were abused did not always receive the support and treatment they needed and were entitled to and that children and parents fell between the chairs. No one had an overview of what was going on. No one was assigned to hold together all the things the child needed to get his rehabilitation. Everything was simply very messy. To meet the needs of rehabilitation support and to achieve good care for vulnerable children, the Foundation presented the model The Fourth Room.
i-5ed380af12220745-23	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for Ulrika Karlsson's question, I think that the question of children's houses is perhaps a little bit different from what the interpellation is about. Barnahus is something we see very positively. How many regions today stand without children's houses, Ulrika Karlsson may know better than I do. But a lot of people do. They may look somewhat different. Only a few weeks ago, I visited Kronoberg, who also has a children's house now. They described it as being a little late in the starting blocks but that it is now in place. I think we've come a long way there. It will be a rather strange discussion to stand here three weeks after a similar interpellation debate with Marléne Lund Kopparklint and once again have a discussion that when the regions do not organise care adequately, the responsibility lies with the government and parliament. I tried in my introduction to describe it, and I will try to repeat it again. Of course, we can support the regions, as we do through agreements. An agreement is about the health of women. There has been a special addition on whether there should be a clear chain of care for people who have been subjected to sexual violence or genital mutilation, with additional resources. It is also about the budget, for example. We have put forward proposals for a law on health care tracking after sexual offences. That proposal is referred, and there is money for its introduction. Of course, things can be done nationally. But it is a question of organising specific care through a comprehensive reception and how to interact within and between the regions. It is important to say that employers have a great responsibility for this issue which they cannot just pass on. What does the money do, and does nothing really happen? You can almost get the impression, when we stand here in Parliament, that nothing is happening in this area, and that is not the case either. There is a ten-year national strategy on men's violence against women, which is indeed a holistic approach to the issues. None of us can be satisfied that we are to alleviate, support and provide the best possible care to those who are exposed. Of course, we should also do a job so that fewer people are exposed. That must be the starting point. That, of course, is the ambition of the ten-year national strategy. For a year now, there have also been 89 programmes at universities that include physiotherapists, psychologists, sociologists and so on that should simply have a knowledge of men's violence against women and violence in close relationships. It's still a unique way of working. We are trying to protect higher education. All the changes that we want or the ambitions that we may have politically cannot be included in education. But these are issues that are so important and so important that everyone in the professions that come into contact with children and young people or adults who have suffered, experienced, or experienced violence in a close relationship should know how to see, discover and know how to handle it. There are several regions that work with, among other things, collective reception with knowledge centres and in various ways work to improve the care of women who have been subjected to sexual abuse. I really want to say that a lot is happening. This does not mean that we cannot get better and that no more can be done.
i-5ed380af12220745-32	Madam President, I would like The Minister doesn't have to repeat anything to me. I remember very well what was said three weeks ago. I can also inform the Minister that we will probably be standing here again in three weeks' time. I'll be standing here every month if necessary as long as the government doesn't do what it's supposed to do. There's obviously a flaw. If people fall between the chairs, as they obviously do, the government needs to go in and act. Where else do you turn? I also told the Minister in the last debate that we had. Then why do I not see enough happening? That's because the statistics are going the wrong way. In 2020, the highest number of rapes against children were reported so far. This was 16 per cent more than in 2019. The General Barnhuset Foundation's survey showed that in 2014, 20 per cent of all children were victims of sexual offences. Now we're up to 25%. All these children will grow up if they survive, that is. It is known that if a person has been exposed to sexual crimes in childhood, that increases the risk of suicide twelve times in adulthood. There is a great risk that there will be consequences when people do not receive adequate help. Already in 2013, the WHO defined sexual abuse as a global threat to public health and human rights requiring urgent action. In January 2019, Sweden and Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren received strong criticism from the Council of Europe expert group Grevio due to lack of access to specialised trauma treatment for sexual crime victims. SKR has also made criticisms in this particular area. Clearly, Sweden's regions do not have the tools to deal with this issue in a patient-proof manner. We need specialist clinics that can provide adequate assistance to children and adults who have been victims of sexual crimes. We need to understand how widespread this is, how to protect children and how best to put things right if a child has been exposed. I have gone through the entire list of actions carried out around Sweden, and I lack adequate knowledge-based care for sexual offenders. I think the Minister for Social Affairs is confusing these issues completely. The Minister does not know which care is being carried out, and the statistics speak against the government's work. We in Parliament would never accept whether regions decided not to offer emergency rooms or not to have orthopedic specialist clinics. Similarly, it is not acceptable for the 21 regions of the country to lack specialist receptions for sexual offences. Then the parliament and government would act. The minister shook his head; I hope everyone saw it. One would not react if people fell between the chairs and died around the country because there were no emergency rooms. I don't know if I'm gonna laugh or cry. The fifth objective of gender equality policy is equal health. Women and men and girls and boys must have the same conditions for good health and be offered care on equal terms. It is not possible to create equal care without specialised care for sexually traumatised patients. Also, people who are already sexually traumatized are not helped by the prevention of sexual violence. One must distinguish between what is being done to prevent and what is being done to actually care for.
i-5ed380af12220745-42	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it is true that children's houses are within the area of the Minister of Justice, since it is the police, prosecutors, etc. that are there today. But that is what the project was about – the project that the government was involved in initiating together with the Foundation General Barnhuset. It was about taking psychiatry, the fourth room, into the children's house. It is, of course, a matter of care and, as far as I am aware, care falls under the responsibility of the Minister. My question is therefore again: Is the Minister ready and willing to push to lift the fourth room into children's houses? That would be very good. In addition, can it be possible to run the line and make it permanent and mandatory for all regions to have children's houses? This is where contact is made with the children who have been abused. I spoke very recently to a mother who had a daughter who was 15 years old and two months old when she was raped. She was at the orphanage, who contacted the trauma unit on the bup. This happened in December, and it took over two months before she got her first contact on the bup. It took over two months! The point of lifting the fourth room into the children's house is that you should get the care contact right away. It is immediately when it is discovered that a child has been subjected to sexual abuse that this support and this help is needed, not least for the child's sake but also for the family's. I therefore wonder whether the Minister is willing to shoulder responsibility for pushing forward the fourth room in children's houses?
i-5ed380af12220745-46	Madam President, I would like To think that the idea is good and to push is one thing, but if the government is to govern what the public children's houses should look like throughout the country is another issue. I am thinking that Ulrika Karlsson is happy to ask an interpellation about it, and we can discuss it in detail. There are children's houses, however, and they look a little different. There are various reasons why people work differently, and if there is any authority that is quite well aware that it can look different in the country, it is the parliament's chamber, I think. We come from all over the country, and we know that the conditions are quite different. You need to work in different ways depending on the pressure in the area where you are. The need is also different; you have different skills, and if you can't do it yourself, you have to work together and interact with other municipalities or regions. This needs to be organised in such a way that, in this case, a children's house is available and, in order to address the interpellier's question, to fulfil the responsibilities of ensuring that the necessary care and treatment can be provided. The national strategy is ten years old. It is very good that it is in place, because it is indicative of how the government has gathered its work. It also guides activities, and it guides municipalities and regions to a large extent. There is a supplementary agreement that contains money, which also agrees to ensure that there are care chains that are to the full. Region Värmland is planning to launch a project for a reception for victims of violence in the Västra Götaland region, and plans to start work within the regional programme area with knowledge centres. Region Östergötland, together with something called Novahuset, has created an idea-based public partnership to provide both advice and support to violent women and their loved ones. This is not least about what Ulrika Karlsson talked about, namely the accompanying police, court and health care, which can be done, among other things, through children's houses. Region Kalmar intends to take action to achieve a much better flow, and Region Sörmland is planning a centre of expertise for violence in close relationships. Region Västerbotten intends to carry out an inventory in its region in order to take further efforts to obtain equal care over the county. I could go on for a while. This will be a strange discussion to have here in the Chamber of the Day of Risk. Every time Marléne Lund Kopparklint places an interpellation, I will of course, but that every three weeks something has happened in an area where the main responsibility rests on the regions, I am sure Marléne Lund Kopparklint does not understand. Then we can like the issue a lot, and we will do everything we can at the national level. But we can't say exactly how to organise the business, that is, whether it should be a specialist reception – or what a specialist reception is, which is not a simple definition. You can call different constellations or concentrations a specialist reception. Nevertheless, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint to devote her last speech to reflecting on what it means that her own party friends have been governing the Stockholm region for 15 years, which is mentioned in particular in the interpellation, and have still not been able to achieve what Marléne Lund Kopparklint so much wants to see. I would also like her to take this opportunity to describe what the Moderates want to do in this area from a national point of view in order to resolve this issue. I have not been able to read it.
i-5ed380af12220745-55	Madam President, I would like The Minister talks about violence in close relationships and men's violence against women. Of course, a large part of the vulnerable women are, but if you only talk about men's violence against women – what are we going to do with all the men who have actually been exposed to sexual crimes in childhood? There are many questions that arise when I listen to the Minister. We now need child rights fighters to ensure that there are specialist clinics that can provide adequate assistance to children and adults who have been victims of sexual crimes, and I am talking about knowledge-based trauma care. We do not need a Minister of Social Affairs who stands here in the Swedish Parliament and is fooling around and rejects responsibility. The argument that the government cannot regulate the regions in detail does not hold up. During the pandemic they entered several different areas and steered the regions when they were not able to do so. Disruptive action is needed here, and a new structure is needed. We need to think away all the truths we are leaning against today. The consequence of the government's failure to dare is devastating and entails increased suffering and great social costs. No, Madam President, I am saying: let us be firm! This is disrespectful, shameful and reckless. I expect more from the government. It is one in four children, Madam President. It breaks my heart, and it should break the welfare minister's heart too. I will continue to work to ensure that sex crime victims receive the care they are entitled to – above all in order to save lives, and to be able to say to Little F It's about being able to tell everyone in line to Wonsa that there's medical care for you who's been subjected to this. You can get help! It saves lives.
i-5ed380af12220745-59	Madam President, I would like Now I did not hear how the Moderates wanted to address this issue. Nevertheless, this is a debate with party representatives who have all the conditions and opportunities. We heard earlier that over 4,000 motions had been presented in the Riksdag; we will see who is in the area. I think we should weigh all good ideas very carefully. In fact, I do not believe that there is anyone in this House who does not want to see progress in this area and who, as the interpeller put it, does not have a heart when one sees how children suffer. But we do have constitutional local government where the regions have primary responsibility for health care. In fact, it is not serious to call it nonsense when one claims a constitutional principle. Then we can do things within the limits and space of the government. That is exactly what I have described, both in this interpellation response and in what I gave three weeks ago. It is about resources as well as agreements and legislation. But exactly how to organise health care is not a matter for either the Swedish Government or the Swedish Parliament. You may want a completely different order, but that is not the order we have today. I would also like to say that Men's violence against women is a strategy which, with all due respect for the fact that it sounds like men's violence against women, is more extensive than that. It includes both honour-related problems and the fact that it can also be the reverse, that is, men who are vulnerable. However, the strategy has that name. You can have opinions on this, but if you take part of the strategy, you can see that it is very broad and covers all these elements. I'd be happy to have another discussion. Above all, I welcome good ideas on how to take this forward. Here I have an opinion, and that is that the regions are working on. However, if Marléne Lund Kopparklint now has specific views on the Stockholm region, it may be useful to contact the representatives who have been in charge there for 15 years. It may be a faster way to influence than to change through the Riksdag, which of course does not have that mandate.
i-4FhjvL7rTWgZVR9i6MWqkx	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Åsa Lindhagen and Minister Per Olsson Fridh. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-5ed380af12220745-65	Madam President, I would like Europe is now sweating because of high electricity prices. It is about things like emission allowances and coal but also about home-made problems like in Sweden, with prematurely closed nuclear power. There is also a battle in Europe and Sweden about the future of nuclear power. Germany, for example, has chosen to phase out and now sits on the knee of Putin for the gas. It is discussed whether nuclear power should be seen as sustainable or phased out. Ten countries in Europe have joined forces to protect Swedish and European nuclear power. The opportunity was placed in the government's lap, but Sweden did not sign a cherished nuclear letter and took a battle but instead chose a decommissioning line. My question, Madam President, is: why have the Social Democrats and the Green Party chosen not to stand up for Swedish nuclear power in the EU this autumn?
i-5ed380af12220745-68	Madam President, I would like First, just a small correction: Europe is sweating because of high energy prices, but Sweden is not sweating so much. We are 99.2 percent free of fossil power, and it has been a better situation than in many other countries. There is a very simple answer to Lars Helmered's question: We follow what we have done in Parliament, namely that all fossil-free energy sources should be part of the solution, including nuclear energy. We stand by that. However, there were some wordings in this article that made us not want to sign it. Above all, we want the energy mix to be a national matter. The government and the Moderates have so far agreed on this.
i-5ed380af12220745-71	Madam President, I would like Here the government had a chance, together with other countries, to really stand up for Swedish nuclear power and for entrepreneurship, competitiveness and the climate. Rather, one chooses not to do so but to have a passive attitude. Beyond this, the government parties in Parliament have voted in favour of the early closure of Ringhal reactors. Government Vattenfall chooses to invest in nuclear power in the Baltic States but for political reasons not in Sweden. Then I venture to ask: why is it more important for the government to phase out nuclear power than to save the climate, Madam President?
i-5ed380af12220745-73	Madam President, I would like Trams, Lars Helmered! There are three errors out of three possible. Firstly, we have not decided to phase out any nuclear reactor; this has been done for safety reasons. Secondly, we have not joined the other countries because it would have gone against the agreement we and the Moderates have on what line we should take on energy policy issues. We stand up both for the energy agreement that the Moderates have left and for us to have continued low energy prices and continued security of electricity supply. I hope the Moderates will reconnect to that line.
i-5ed380af12220745-76	Madam President, I would like Recently, the CEO of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise stated that crime is an increasing threat to Sweden's companies. In just a few years, crime has become one of the most prioritised issues in the member surveys conducted by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. This is not primarily about more classic crime such as fraud or vandalism, but about serious crimes such as shootings, robberies and burglaries. According to a report from the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute last year, the direct costs were estimated at 40 billion. In addition to this, preventive measures, which triple the bill for business to 100 billion. It is 100 billion who have been able to contribute to job opportunities, prosperity and well-being.
i-5ed380af12220745-79	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson raises an important issue – crime is a major problem. It is a scourge for our whole society and, of course, for our business community, which is an important part of our society. The government's been working on three different leads. Some have been to strengthen the tools that law enforcement authorities have by both introducing new tools, tightening penalties and enabling camera surveillance, including in our centres, and thereby increasing security, not least for our traders. We have also, Madam President, ensured that traders are given new tools, such as being able to reject people who engage in crime in a way that has not been possible in the past. This is a work that we will continue to drive hard, because Swedish industry, like Swedish citizens, has the right to demand a secure society. We will continue to work on this, Madam President.
i-5ed380af12220745-83	Madam President, I would like In addition to the direct and indirect costs of up to 100 billion, the loss of revenue is naturally added when Sweden is removed as a consequence of insecurity. It is both about foreign skills and foreign capital that are not established here, and about Swedish capital and Swedish skills that move from here. Does Ibrahim Baylan not feel that the government has an obligation towards all the traders affected by the insecurity in Sweden?
i-5ed380af12220745-85	Madam President, I would like For seven years, we have strengthened the police's possibilities and resources so that there can be more police officers and police employees. We have made sure that it is perfectly possible for the police, for example, to use new technologies. And we have made sure that the business community also has new tools. I can see that the problem for SD is the reality. We now have huge investments in the Swedish business community, thanks to our working together as well as for an active business policy. It is a danger if we get Swedish democrats who want to close the country instead.
i-5ed380af12220745-87	Madam President, I would like Recently we have received news of several negative decisions by the Land and Environment Court regarding companies' applications for environmental permits. Permits under the Environmental Code are an incredibly complex process, and one might think that the law should state which criteria apply to permits – for example, who or what is to be tested, what limits apply, what basis is needed, how consultation should be held and what environmentally hazardous activities are. But the fact is that this cannot be seen from the environmental code. The companies in Sweden spend huge sums on applying for environmental permits. We have six times more trials in Sweden than in other European countries. The latest in the line applies to LKAB in Kiruna, which has been refused its application for a renewed environmental permit. There is another complication here, namely that LKAB and Kiruna municipality are working in parallel with this with a city move in order to continue operating. I have two questions for the Minister for Enterprise. Does he think that the environmental code needs to be reviewed on a general level? What does the Minister intend to do to ensure continued commitment and responsibility for the continued urban move in Kiruna?
i-5ed380af12220745-90	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue that has been raised here. Sweden has great conditions to lead the global food transition. Not least, our industry and industry are at the forefront and want to make efforts to show that it is possible to develop business models, technology and products as well as create jobs and economic growth without destroying the environment and climate. This is to be confirmed, and we work closely with the business community to ensure that this is the case. One of the areas often mentioned in the rapid transition is regulatory frameworks and processes. The government has been working on this area for a long time, and there is a review of all the rules, not least the mineral law and the parts of the environmental code that were raised. Of course, this also applies to their application. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that it is possible to protect the environment – clean water and clean air – while speeding up these processes and making them more predictable, and that is exactly what we are doing.
i-5ed380af12220745-93	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs has faith in this, because it is incredibly important. Another industry that has major problems with this is Swedish peat. The permit is about to expire, and one has not received a new one. There are differences of opinion as to whether peat is climate-smart or not, but this is not the case with LKAB in Kiruna, which could reduce Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions by two thirds.
i-5ed380af12220745-97	Madam President, I would like A great asset for our country is the basic industries we have, and I am very pleased that there is now increasing consensus that our industry is not only history but also the future. LKAB is an important company for Norrbotten, Sweden and Europe. As a minister, I cannot interfere with the legal process. But the process of conversion they are in is extremely central, and we shall of course accept it in every way we can.
i-5ed380af12220745-99	Madam President, I would like On 3 March 2016, environmental activist Cáceres Berta was murdered in Honduras when she protested against the construction of hydroelectric power plants co-financed by aid from the Netherlands and Finland. At this time, indigenous organizations are outside the courthouse and are demanding the preparation of a verdict on her already convicted murderers. In 2020 13 environmental law activists were murdered in Honduras and a total of 230 in the world. One way to protect environmental rights activists from murder is to introduce environmental and human rights due diligence. Unfortunately, it is proceeding very slowly in the EU. Isn't it better that Sweden takes precedence to protect activists globally?
i-5ed380af12220745-101	Madam President, I would like This is also an urgent issue. We have seen for years how the democratic space around the world has shrunk and how human rights activists, democracy defenders, journalists and environmental defenders are being pushed back more and more. Four environmental defenders a week lose their lives in their struggle for land rights and the protection of our planet – this at a time when we would all have to be environmental defenders. Protection definitely needs to be strengthened. I am therefore pleased that Sweden has been able to contribute in, among other things, the UN Human Rights Council to raise the specific situation of environmental defenders. We will continue to do so. Within aid, we will also be able to make a big difference in the future in terms of strengthening processes and the ability of legal institutions to see, face, investigate and hold responsible when environmental and climate activists are threatened and, at worst, murdered.
i-5ed380af12220745-104	Madam President, I would like Since many of the conflicts leading to the murder, persecution and criminalisation of indigenous peoples, environmentalists and small farmers have to do with environmentally damaging projects, would it not be reasonable to ensure that no aid goes to similar activities? How does the Minister feel about this? And how does the Government feel that Sweden has not been active in the development of Binding Treaty?
i-5ed380af12220745-105	Madam President, I would like In accordance with the Government's Climate Action Plan, all aid shall be compatible with the Paris Agreement. These processes are underway. The Government has also placed a special mission on Sida, which is about strengthening aid work with biodiversity with ecosystem restoration and ecosystem sensitivity in aid. It is clear that Swedish aid should not go to environmentally damaging projects. On the contrary, we shall see the whole and how ecosystems and human rights are interrelated. That is where Swedish aid should be directed.
i-5ed380af12220745-107	Madam President, I would like Only last June, the Christian Democrats presented a committee initiative to look at the possibility of keeping Ringhals 1 until other electricity generation is in place in southern Sweden. S, C, V or MP did not even want to think about this and saw no problems associated with the closure. But now we are seeing the consequences in the run-up to electricity prices and differences in electricity prices in the country. This fact can all see and follow. The market also signalled that five of the six remaining reactors would be phased out starting in May 2024 unless the government took a single decision on the interim storage and disposal by August this year. It is now October, and no single decision has come. The government risks making the electricity shortage in southern Sweden very long if no plan is presented. When does the government decide on the custody?
i-5ed380af12220745-110	Madam President, I would like The latter issue actually falls under the jurisdiction of Environment Minister Per Bolund, but I can say so much to Larry Söder that we are awaiting a decision within a few months. I'm asking a little question about Larry Söder's reality description. Electricity prices are rising all over Europe, and they rise two or three times more in nuclear countries such as France. Could it really be that the Swedish decommissioning of reactors raises electricity prices for nuclear power countries across Europe? Could it not rather be that it is the rising demand for the pandemic and the lack of gas supplies from Putin's Russia that is pushing up electricity prices across the continent? As a matter of fact, Ringhals did not meet the modern safety requirements, and therefore it was not possible for either the government or the parliament to make a decision whether it should be continued or closed. Something else is a fake history description.
i-5ed380af12220745-113	Madam President, I would like We have a situation where southern Sweden's households have to pay extra due to Sweden's poor energy policy. In February, the review of all 2 000 hydroelectric plants in Sweden will begin, and I believe that we will have even greater problems at that time. What is the government's plan for Sweden's energy policy? How will the problems that will arise if they do not work?
i-5ed380af12220745-115	Madam President, I would like Here we see the pain of writing his supplementary question before you have heard the answer. Swedish nuclear power has not pushed prices up or down, but it is the pandemic and Putin's lack of gas supplies. Unfortunately, the House has little influence on this. The government's energy supply plan is clear. We will continue to have surpluses – when Larry Söder's party was in government we were in deficit. We will continue to have Europe's lowest electricity prices for Swedish industry, and that will be a competitive advantage for Sweden.
i-5ed380af12220745-118	Madam President, I would like We have an electric crisis in Sweden. Less rain and European fuel prices are two factors that have driven the price of electricity to historic levels, but that is not the whole truth. The government is trying to stifle the debate because it has been a terrible deal for electricity customers that the government has played away four nuclear reactors. Liberals have repeatedly tried to stop the closures. But now the damage has been done, and the government has to bear the political responsibility. Certainly, the price would probably have been higher even if nuclear power remained, but if we had been able to produce more nuclear electricity, it would have pushed down prices and not least reduced the need to burn gas in neighbouring countries. We had got two flies with one stone, reduced prices and climate benefits. Households have never paid as much for electricity as they do today. In addition, energy analysts are now warning that electricity prices will rise. What does the Government say to the industries that ration electricity and to households?
i-5ed380af12220745-122	Madam President, I would like My reply is simple: we shall continue to have the EU's lowest electricity prices. Arman Teimouri has a solution regardless of the problem: nuclear power, but he is guilty of the answer. Why do electricity prices increase much more strongly in France, which basically only has nuclear power in its energy production, than they do in Sweden if the explanation for Sweden's electricity price increases is the decommissioning of nuclear power?
i-5ed380af12220745-124	Madam President, I would like The government is again trying to stifle the debate. I cannot take responsibility for what is happening in France, but I can see what is happening here in Sweden. We can see that nuclear power has been phased out here, that we have increased prices and that we have an electricity crisis in southern Sweden, where the homeowners pay three four times more for electricity than the rest of Sweden. This is not the way to go, and it is the government's policy that has brought us to where we are today.
i-5ed380af12220745-126	Madam President, I would like So if you put a question to Mr Teimouri in the debate, you are trying to quell the debate. Arman Teimouri still has TV and Internet access and can see how energy prices are developing in Europe. It's dominated media coverage. He will be guilty of the answer, but the answer is quite simple: there is increasing demand due to the pandemic and lack of supplies from Russia, which is the main explanation for the increase in electricity prices in Europe, and this spills over to Sweden.
i-5ed380af12220745-129	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most innovative countries. Recently Wipo came with his ranking, which again shows that Sweden is the second most innovative country in the world, after Switzerland. When the EU published its Innovation Scoreboard in 2021, Sweden was once again in first place as the EU innovation leader. Politics makes a difference. As a social democrat, I am proud of the education system we have, which allows everyone to study, the security system we have created, which allows people to, want and dare to try their wings, and the collaborative structure we have, which makes big and small, public and private, dare to cooperate and contribute to innovation. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: what does the Minister think is Sweden's forces, and what contributes to our country being one of the world's most innovative countries time and again?
i-5ed380af12220745-132	Madam President, I would like We have chosen the path, Åsa Eriksson. We have chosen the path where we will compete by being clever, innovative and effective, unlike trying to compete with low wages and worse conditions for employees in the country. This has meant that we cooperate very closely with industry and academia and that we make major investments in research and development, not least when it comes to applied research and innovation in our companies. This has involved quite a few joint projects, different types of test pilots and labs where we work together, both by identifying problems and by finding common solutions. The result, just as Åsa Eriksson describes, is that five years in a row we have been the most innovative country in the European Union when the Commission has ranked the EU countries, and recently the United Nations came with its ranking where Switzerland, Sweden and the United States, in that order, were most innovative.
i-5ed380af12220745-135	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for this. However, there are worrying trends. The Expo 2020 Dubai World Exhibition has now opened, and the interest in Swedish companies' sustainability solutions is huge. The Government's budget proposal includes investments in, for example, green conversion and the digitalisation of industry, which is extremely important both for Swedish conversion and for us to export to the rest of the world. But several parties reject the government's efforts and want to cut back on this. What happens then, Minister?
i-5ed380af12220745-137	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a unique opportunity to show that the climate change and the digital transformation need not be a threat or a burden. We see this now, which has led to quite large investments in northern Sweden: coal-free steel, battery factories and more, which have been added precisely because we have worked purposefully. As Åsa Eriksson says: If the proposals made by, for example, the Swedish Democrats in this House about strong cuts in research and innovation should become a reality, it is a danger.
i-5ed380af12220745-139	Madam President, I would like Swedish nuclear power has struggled with a number of problems in recent years. Fuel damage, turbine problems, accidents and poor profitability have meant that nuclear power has not really delivered. Month in and month out some reactors have been closed to audit, and at the same time southern Sweden needs local electricity generation.
i-5ed380af12220745-141	Madam President, I would like That is essentially two things. The first is to increase local electricity generation in southern Sweden. Today, together with Minister for the Environment Per Bolund, I presented a proposal to abolish the connection costs for offshore wind, which comes from an energy agreement supported by a large majority of Parliament's parties. The second main strategy is to increase the transmission between North and South in order to reduce bottlenecks in the system, thereby ensuring southern Sweden's energy supply and reducing price differentials between electricity pricing areas in Sweden. We triple the investments in new transmission capacity over the next three years via the Swedish power grid, and we have recently inaugurated the Southwest link, which will also increase transmission capacity between northern and southern Sweden.
i-5ed380af12220745-144	Madam President, I would like We know that it takes decades to build new nuclear power, and it can also be very expensive. Based on the example of Olkiluoto 3 in Finland, which started in 2005 and is now scheduled to start in 2022, we know that this may not be the answer to the climate challenge. It's fast on the renewable side. The other week a solar heating plant was started in Härnösand. Why is renewable energy happening so quickly?
i-5ed380af12220745-146	Madam President, I would like The answer is simply that there is faster product development for renewables and that it has reduced costs. It is good if Finland can get its reactor up and running next year. I can say so much that when my predecessor, Ibrahim Baylan, who is in this Chamber today, took office, he was told that in a few months' time the Finnish reactor will open. Then he handed over the baton to me as Minister of Energy, and I was told when I took office that in a few months the Finnish reactor will start. Still, in a few months' time, the Finnish reactor will start.
i-5ed380af12220745-149	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Without the companies, Sweden stops, but increased bureaucracy, regulatory problems and long, complicated licensing processes hold Sweden and Sweden's entrepreneurs back, at a time when, under the leadership of the government, we face many major problems that entrepreneurship can help us with. We have the EU's fourth highest unemployment rate, 700 000 foreign born cannot support themselves, important investments in the environment and climate fail and are stopped because of long permit processes and it is going the wrong way. The OECD recently produced another study, the third in the order, which shows just that. Seven years have passed with this government, and there have been three OECD studies and countless investigations. How long does the government need to pull the trigger?
i-5ed380af12220745-153	Madam President, I would like From the day that this government took office, we have worked closely with the business community, not least with the industry that the Moderates had worked out – an industry that they thought belonged to history. The former Prime Minister said: Industry is basically gone. I believe that he meant employment in industry. But it was just as wrong. We have worked closely with the industry, and we see a rather powerful increase in investment in our country. We have worked very closely together, not least during the pandemic that has hit industry hard, and we will continue to do so in a number of areas. Research and development, innovation and skills supply will be the major challenges because there is just an enormous amount of investment, not least in the industry that the Moderates had actually calculated just a decade ago. Madam President, I would like So there are challenges that we are working on, not least the planning processes that Ida Drougge points out and to ensure that there are simpler rules that are more predictable. This applies to both the regulatory framework and its application.
i-5ed380af12220745-157	Madam President, I would like Tomorrow it is ten months ago that it was decided on the proposal of the Committee on Finance on the Swedish position that nuclear power should be part of the taxonomy. Despite the decision, the government does as little as possible to follow the position. After the discussion last Tuesday, it emerged that the government is sitting passively waiting for the Commission's proposal, despite the fact that there have been several opportunities to pursue opinion, among other things, with like-minded Member States. I would like to go so far as to say that it is controversial for the government to so openly show its reluctance to work for a decided Swedish position. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Lindhagen the following question: how does the government intend to work in the future on the Swedish position in the Finance Committee last Tuesday, that the government should work actively to include nuclear energy in taxonomy?
i-5ed380af12220745-161	Madam President, I would like The issues currently being dealt with within the EU with regard to taxonomics are extremely important and raise a great many different views both between Member States but also within Member States. The government has put a great deal of focus on pushing not least the questions about forests that there is a great deal of commitment in the Swedish parliament. But this also applies to the Swedish position on taxonomics, that all fossil-free forms of energy, including nuclear power, play an important role in the transition. This is what the Committee on Finance has laid down in the Swedish position. And the government, of course, puts forward the position that is Sweden. It is in our mission, and we will continue to do so in the future.
i-5ed380af12220745-163	Madam President, I would like This autumn, two independent government decisions have been quite negative for the country and especially for south-eastern Sweden. One was to disintegrate the coherent storage process around spent nuclear fuel when Clab was given a special decision regarding Oskarshamn. The second was to bow to Swedish power network's review of the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's decision regarding new power line building in Småland and Blekinge against logic and reasoning in this House. Since 2014, I have on several occasions put forward arguments in this House, including to Minister Baylan, about how we can build more efficient power lines in our country without creating contradictions. We have arrived in a common understanding of a low-ground technology and let other than Swedish power networks participate in the assessment. Nevertheless, the government bows to the review and conventional view of the construction of this power line. The environment is astounding. How did the government reason?
i-5ed380af12220745-165	Madam President, I would like The reasoning is simple. It was the best and most cost-effective technology to quickly supply southern Sweden with new electricity, dampen electricity price increases in southern Sweden and ensure that southern Sweden's entrepreneurs can expand. Then the government must take responsibility for the development of the southern part of the country. With regard to the second issue raised by Anders Åkesson, about Clab, it was simply the case that appeals proceedings risked the operation of Swedish nuclear power. Therefore, the government had to divide the issue into two processes in order to guarantee the continued operation of Swedish nuclear power. I look forward to the presentation of the final decisions on this matter within a few months.
i-5ed380af12220745-169	Madam President, I would like The number of young people applying for debt adjustment doubled last year. One reason for this is the consumption loans, loans taken for consumption without proper security and in many cases without proper creditworthiness testing. Several revelations from, among others, Svenska Dagbladet have come in the last few weeks about how the loan companies are fighting for new loan customers. After a small purchase of makeup online there was a short time email 18 times about loan offers to the person who made the purchase. It's aggressive and unserious marketing. And that was not the worst example. Some people had received up to 100 emails. Payment services have started to market themselves as a source of revenue for online shops. Profits shall instead be deducted through loans and interest rates. Registers of online shop customers are built up, and customers are bombarded with loan advertisements – loans that they do not want or need.
i-5ed380af12220745-172	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for a very important question. This is about people who are very vulnerable if they suffer from over-indebtedness. The government has taken a variety of measures. Among other things, we have introduced an interest and high-cost ceiling for credit. The Marketing Act has also been tightened up quite recently and means that marketing must not be intrusive, as this is a very serious business. If you are working to lend money, you as an actor need to take a big responsibility in this market. The government will continue to focus on this in the future. And I do not rule out that we will take more action than the measures that I highlighted. We also see that young people in particular are at risk of being squeezed and starting their adult life as over-indebted. That, of course, is something that we will have to continue to work with.
i-5ed380af12220745-175	Madam President, I would like The care and human solidarity of fellow human beings in vulnerable situations are crucial for a human society. This care extends beyond national boundaries. Sweden is a leading country that has maintained the 1% target for many years. However, in order to retain the legitimacy of generous aid, it must be effective. Swedish tax revenue must not disappear in corrupt pockets. It's criminal. The guilty must take the consequences of stealing money intended for poverty reduction, health care and school education. Anti-corruption is an increasingly important part of aid. However, Sida's corruption report shows that out of 127 confirmed suspicions of corruption only 13 led to a police report, even though Sida writes: When suspected of a crime, the basic rule is to report to the judiciary in the country where the crime occurred.
i-5ed380af12220745-179	Madam President, I would like I thank Gudrun Brunegård for this question. Let me begin by stating that corruption is one of the biggest obstacles to development that we have on earth. First of all, aid must keep its own box clean, so to speak, to ensure that we keep track of the money – track it and know where it goes. Secondly, aid must help to reduce the incidence of corruption in the societies in which it operates. Sida's governance is very clear. It is about both that this is a work that should be deeply integrated into democracy-promoting and democracy-enhancing work, and that we should have rigid guidelines to follow up, demand money back and always report and never accept corruption. Sida is working hard on this. We have also strengthened Sida's ability to hire controllers and so on to also be better and more on in the field in these particular issues. We will continue to do so. It is extremely urgent.
i-5ed380af12220745-183	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to the Minister for Financial Markets. It is about the climate and the financial market. We see an increased interest in investing and investing assets that contribute to climate change. This is increasing among both consumers and capital market players, and it is a development that can be expected to continue. At the same time, there is also an interesting area about how climate change creates risks to financial stability. Recently there was a study of how well prepared companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange are on climate change and the risks that exist. The study showed that many had less control. My question to the Government is how the Government sees that many companies lack knowledge and preparedness in terms of climate risks and what the government does for more companies to get this.
i-5ed380af12220745-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the honourable Member, for an extremely important issue. I can say that it is of course very serious that companies do not have control of their climate risks. I usually say in many different contexts that climate risks are also closely associated with financial risks. If you as an entrepreneur do not keep track of the climate risks and do not keep up with the transition journey, we will in future see companies that are unable to live on and go bankrupt. For example, if you invest your money in an activity that is incompatible with the switchover, for example in coal power plants across Europe that are closing down right now because the price of emission allowances has skyrocketed, you are obviously making a bad investment. You don't want to invest in a coal power plant that closes after five years. A very important part of what has been done is that the policy has put much higher demands on sustainability reporting so that you can review the companies and put pressure on them to keep track of their risks.
i-5ed380af12220745-191	Madam President, I would like For a few months we have been amazed at how Swedish environmental legislation has endangered Cementa's activities on Gotland. The environmental code has now made a difference for another important company, namely LKAB. Despite long and expensive work, the company has been refused an application for an extended mining permit in Kiruna mine. I have a few questions for Minister Baylan. Firstly, when even a large state-owned company does not seem to be able to comply with the provisions of the Environmental Code – what does this call for comments from the Government? Secondly, does the Government think it is reasonable that it should take many years in court before this type of case is decided? Thirdly: Paradoxically, the environmental code also delays or prevents climate-smart activities. Against this background, I would like to know what the Minister thinks we should do with this problem.
i-5ed380af12220745-196	Madam President, I would like It is essentially the same legislation that has been in force for a long time, so it is not a matter of a few months. It also applied at the time Lars Jilmstad's party was in the government and led the government work. We have a need, Madam President, to review the regulatory framework. Against this background, a number of reviews are already taking place. This applies to the mineral law, parts of the environmental code and the implementation of these rules. We are doing this because we need to make a quick transition. Swedish industry and industry want to be on that journey, and that is something that is very good. We are looking at the regulations, and I see that we can increase both the predictability and robustness of the system without compromising central values such as a good environment, clean water and clean air. I think that has strong support from the Swedish people. In addition, Madam President, we are looking at the implementation. For example, we have given a commission to the county administrative boards to speed up their processes so that we can make the rapid transition for the climate, for jobs and for economic growth.
i-5ed380af12220745-201	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Development Per Olsson Fridh. Afghanistan's population is in urgent need of food after the Taliban occupation. Therefore, the world around us should help with food, medicines, and hospital supplies to alleviate the most acute distress. The Taliban regime is not democratically elected, and it is far too early to show its acceptance. There are many reports of, for example, abuse and closed girls' schools. In addition to emergency assistance, efforts risk strengthening the Taliban both with finances and with international acceptance. Therefore, my question is: if the government is now also re-launching projects in addition to emergency aid – what means of exerting pressure do we have left to demand that the Taliban Government respect the rule of law, democracy and human rights?
i-5ed380af12220745-204	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Afghanistan is and has become an incredibly acute situation. It was a major humanitarian crisis even before the Taliban took power, and since then, unfortunately, the situation has only become worse and worse every day. There is not even any idea that we would restart projects involving a Taliban-led regime or Taliban-led public activities. On the other hand, Sweden continues to have fairly large long-term development aid in Afghanistan through, for example, the Swedish Afghanistan Committee and their work. It also concerns direct payments to parts of UN organisations that are still on the ground and deliver outside and without involvement of the Taliban. These are channels that we now need to see if we can scale up. Pure humanitarian aid will not be enough to avoid a collapse in Afghanistan; we also need to get a little longer-term aid, which can trigger a little bit of a local economy and contribute to livelihood so that families can put food on the table. Unfortunately, it is not only humanitarian aid that is required, but then we must also use the channels that we know about, which we trust and which are on the ground.
i-5ed380af12220745-208	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Anders Ygeman. PTS has today released a report that means that Sweden is unlikely to continue to meet its broadband roll-out targets. Broadband expansion has stopped when it has reached places where the so-called market is not really interested. At the same time, we hear about companies, including Telia, that break expansion agreements or delay implementation for an unreasonable period of time. In many places the copper network is cut before alternatives exist, leaving people without communication possibilities, not least when even mobile coverage is lacking.
i-5ed380af12220745-212	Madam President, I would like Let me just nuance the picture of PTS's report. It shows that two out of three targets will be reached by 2025 and that 95% of Swedes today have access to high-speed connectivity in their immediate vicinity. You think you're going to get up to somewhere between 98 and 99 percent. So the question is about this 1% or 2% at the end, and I think that this is very much about market growth and technological development. We will not be able to pull fiber for the last percent, we will be using fixed wireless, 5G and other mobile solutions. PTS's report has not taken height for this. I am therefore quite convinced that we will reach the targets by 2025, but we are no stranger to providing more funds if it turns out that this would be necessary. For the goal is clear: All Swedes should have access to a fast connection no matter where they live in the country.
i-5ed380af12220745-216	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman. Fishing is one of our basic industries. Now this industry is under threat from offshore wind turbines, which are placed in the sea in large quantities. They are up to 350 meters high, as high as the Eiffel Tower. This is done without the coastal municipalities being allowed to take part in the decision. The decisions are with the government. The Prime Minister praised wind power in the party leader debate and hence the wind power companies, which are fully celebrating and projecting.
i-5ed380af12220745-220	Madam President, I would like We hesitated a little because we have the Minister for Rural Development here; perhaps he is better placed to answer questions about fisheries. I also need to make some corrections here. We have a municipal veto in Sweden, so the municipalities have a decisive influence on whether wind power should be built in their municipality. Although the application processes will change, the government has no plans to abolish the municipal veto. I believe that offshore wind power can be well combined with environmental and business interests, such as fishing, and with defence interests, such as approach zones and other things. It is important that we manage to weigh these things together and adapt them to the local situation. If you do that, I am convinced that fishing, defence and future wind power are able to get along well.
i-5ed380af12220745-224	Madam President, I would like My question is put to Minister Ygeman. The conversion to carbon-free steel production through Hybrid and SSAB is estimated to reduce Sweden's CO2 emissions by 10 percent. The sooner this happens, the better for the climate and for jobs. It would be very unfortunate if the absolutely necessary power line to ensure the supply of electricity to SSAB's conversion would be delayed due to permit processes. No one benefits from this, but rather it would be a huge loss to everyone.
i-5ed380af12220745-227	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by confirming Sofia Amloh's image; it is extremely important for the climate that Hybrid becomes a reality. It is true that Hybrid can contribute to reducing Sweden's emissions by 10 percent, but Hybrid can also contribute to reducing Europe's emissions by the equivalent of 35 percent of Sweden's emissions. This would be a fantastic reduction and a fantastic contribution. We will use the Swedish electricity surplus to import jobs and industrial production to Sweden. Although the government in this situation is not formally involved in the process, I am prepared to do what I can to make it easier for municipalities, county boards and companies to ensure that this for Sweden so important industrial production and this for Sweden so important electricity management can become a reality.
i-5ed380af12220745-230	Madam President, I would like In a previous reply, Minister Ygeman said that the government takes responsibility for the electricity supply in Skåne. This is not true. Never before have electricity prices in Skåne been so high. Pensioners, families with children and everyone else are trembling at winter and the high electricity bills. The Minister also spoke warmly about offshore wind power, but he missed that this extremely subsidised power strike knocks away the legs of other, more reliable, energy sources. He also missed that wind power does not deliver when it does not blow.
i-5ed380af12220745-233	Madam President, I would like We who have had the joy of visiting Skåne many times know that the lack of wind in Skåne is not the landscape's biggest problem. Joking aside – what we're doing is getting more local electricity production in place. We are ensuring better transmission capacity between the northern and southern parts of the country. We are building off bottlenecks and making sure to add new electricity generation. The electricity price in Skåne is far too high. However, this is not due to the energy policy of the opposition or the government, but is due to rising demand with the pandemic and falling gas supplies from Putin's Russia. The answer for Europe is to free itself from oil and gas dependence on the Middle East and Russia.
i-5ed380af12220745-236	Madam President, I would like The major problems of over-indebtedness, which affect both individuals and society, have not diminished during the pandemic, but vice versa. The measures taken by the government have been evasive and insufficient. The Swedish Democrats are therefore launching a strong 20-point action programme to reverse the negative trend of over-indebtedness. One of our proposals is to limit, according to the Finnish model, the time for the disbursement of loans. The risk of borrowing on ill-considered grounds increases in evenings and nights, especially if there is an addiction problem in the picture. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance whether it is reasonable to have a quick loan of SEK 20 000 paid out when you are at the restaurant at one Saturday night. I would also like to ask whether she shares the view of the Swedish Democrats that restrictions on the disbursement of quick loans should be introduced.
i-5ed380af12220745-239	Madam President, I would like I have been very clear in many different contexts that I am not ruling out any action in dealing with actors who do not assume their responsibilities in the financial market. If you lend money, you have to take responsibility for ensuring that people do not get caught. An extremely important part of this is that the players who lend money make proper credit assessments. We know that doing so greatly reduces the risk of people ending up in financial vulnerability. Such vulnerability affects the whole of everyday life. It affects housing and all opportunities in terms of the cost of living, which is being cut for those who get caught in this way. Financial inspection has just gone out with new general advice on how to make these credit assessments; I know that the Member of Parliament has paid attention. It is now extremely important that the actors take their responsibility on the market – that is my clear message. Nor do I rule out that we will take further action.
i-5ed380af12220745-243	Madam President, I would like Swedish farmers fight against major profitability problems. Only this year, the cost of fuel in Swedish agriculture has risen by almost 1 billion. Of course, in an industry with a combined profitability of just over SEK 5 billion each year, this has major consequences. The Ygeman Government just said that it wants to import production into Sweden. However, with regard to agriculture and food production, the trend is quite the opposite; every other bite is currently imported. That is why I would like to ask Minister for Enterprise and Rural Affairs Baylan this: are the objectives of the food strategy no longer important to achieve? If so, how should we strengthen Swedish agricultural competitiveness and profitability? This needs to happen now – otherwise we will not be approaching the food strategy's 2030 targets.
i-5ed380af12220745-246	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. We are doing this through several measures. Perhaps the most important thing is that we invest more in Swedish agriculture. I have recently, in the budget that we have presented to Parliament, presented initiatives that are considerably stronger than before. It is 28 1⁄2 billion for rural areas and agriculture in our country in the package we are presenting. In parallel with this, Madam President, we are working on a strategic plan that will define how we work further to strengthen the profitability and competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. It is mainly about simplifications, but also about investments, such as innovation initiatives, which I think is also central. Some of the competitiveness is hampered by the dependence on fossil energy, such as diesel. Therefore, it is important for the government to work to make agriculture fossil-free. Helena Jonsson has recently presented a study that I look forward to taking forward to make agriculture fossil-free and more competitive.
i-5ed380af12220745-251	Madam President, I would like Swedish fuel prices have reached new record levels in the past week. Dieseln's price per litre has in some places already blown up 20 ‐ crowns, and in the media we have been able to read that we have the world's highest diesel price. This is happening in a country that is, in fact, largely rural where real alternatives to the car are lacking. The car is used not only for people to get to and from their jobs, but also in a wide range of public activities, whose increased fuel costs will now lead to reduced welfare or increased tax collection. At the same time, companies testify to recruitment problems when people's disposable income is eaten up by fuel costs. For some, it is no longer worthwhile to work. The increased transport costs hit everyone, but the hardest where the alternatives are lacking.
i-5ed380af12220745-254	Madam President, I would like In the short term, Mr Palmqvist, this is done by supporting the government's budget in this House. We are making a historic effort on the Swedish countryside, not least by providing support for sandwiches, ensuring that there is good service and ensuring that our citizens have higher disposable income. It is clear that it is quite high both petrol and diesel prices right now, not only in Sweden but globally. As the Minister for Energy said earlier, it is, of course, because we are deeply dependent on the Middle East and Russia too much of this energy. The long-term way forward, Madam President, is simple but difficult. It is simple in the sense that we know that we need to get rid of this addiction. It is difficult because it takes time. That it takes time is because we need more biofuels and electricity in the transport sector. This is, of course, what we are working on. In the short term, we ensure that we support the Swedish countryside and people's opportunity to live and work there. In the longer term, we are making sure to become less and less dependent on the gas and oil from Putin and oil from the Middle East.
i-5ed380af12220745-258	Madam President, I would like Not a penny should go to the Taliban! Ann Linde said when the Taliban took over Afghanistan in August. It is an attitude that can be easy to agree with, but unfortunately it needs to be problematized. The Moderates want to focus Swedish aid and increase the proportion of humanitarian aid. The only way to achieve the Foreign Minister's goal is to stop all aid to a country that is one of the most dependent countries in the world, with the risk of mass starvation and a humanitarian disaster. It is a very difficult balance. The EU has now announced its desire to release parts of previously frozen money in order to engage in longer-term development cooperation in Afghanistan. My question is therefore: how does the Minister of Aid ensure that no aid is now given to the Taliban?
i-5ed380af12220745-260	Madam President, I would like I took part in the meeting with the EU Development Ministers and was involved in calling on the Commission to thaw out parts of the EUR 180 million previously available for long-term aid. However, we should not channel aid through the state, as we have done, to the regime and to institutions currently governed by the Taliban. Instead, we must use the actors on the ground, who we trust and who work outside the state structure. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee is one such, UNICEF is another. When the money ends up there, we can feel safe. Then, of course, we must follow this up closely. Giving humanitarian aid alone, as the Moderates advocate, will not solve the crisis in Afghanistan and will not prevent the collapse and famine in Afghanistan. We need to have a mix of efforts, both long-term aid and humanitarian aid. Only then will we be able to stand up for the people of Afghanistan as we have promised.
i-5ed380af12220745-263	Madam President, I would like The Bredband target for 2020 was not achieved by the government. The broadband target for 2025 also seems to fail. There is a report which shows that 15 of the country's 21 regions will not reach the broadband target, something that is very worrying. It is primarily in rural areas that the objectives will not be achieved. Today, approximately 87 per cent of households in cities and urban areas have access to high-speed broadband. But in rural areas it is only 55%. The government obviously invests too little money in the roll-out of broadband. Why was it not taken more seriously when the broadband target for 2020 was not reached? When can rural areas become involved in the digital society?
i-5ed380af12220745-265	Madam President, I would like I welcome Jimmy Ståhl to the debate on broadband. I can inform you that last year we sevenfold doubled broadband support in the budget. The interested party can read in the Swedish Democrats' budget historically how they paid attention to the fact that we did not meet the 2020 target and think about why the corresponding initiatives did not exist earlier in the Swedish Democrats' budgets. But I also want to nuance the picture a little. Today, 95% of Swedes have access to high-speed broadband. It's mostly all over Europe. The report from PTS, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, shows that we will meet the target of 98 per cent having ultra-fast broadband and that we will meet the target for all those who will receive 30 megabits. There is 2% left, but in contrast to Jimmy Ståhl, I am prepared to add additional funds, make further efforts and acknowledge the technological development that is taking place. That is why I am convinced that in 2025 we will achieve the goal that all Swedes should have access to fast internet.
i-5ed380af12220745-268	Madam President, I would like It is tragic that aviation, which can quickly take us from north to south in our country, has become a symbol of the fight against climate change. As far as trains are concerned, they need to be speeded up. The main roads cannot receive more traffic in Skåne. Skåne needs trains to stop in the resorts. In Höör and Eslöv, the government plans that high-speed trains should go on unspoilt land outside the city centres. In Finja outside Hässleholm, a new station location is to be built, leading to shuttle traffic to and from the station. The entire route Lund – Hässleholm is kidnapped by high-speed trains and does not fit into what is needed for commuting to and from jobs, for growth and for freight flows in Skåne. The government's misconception about Stockholm – Gothenburg – Malmö creates problems for the round Skåne locally and regionally. How does the government intend to solve the issue of regional and local rail transport in Skåne, and what will the high-speed party cost the Skåne municipalities?
i-5ed380af12220745-269	Madam President, I would like A bit into the 80's there was a consensus that you had reached a maximum ceiling for the trains. There would not be much demand for rail transport. Since then, demand from both companies and people has broken record. We've built more, and that's why people use more. But it is also because both businesses and citizens are very climate conscious and want to use this energy-efficient and clean mode of transport. Against this background, Madam President, the government has presented historically great efforts to build new trains, to maintain the tracks we have and on the regional routes. We will continue to do so. What surprises me, Madam President, is that, despite the fact that most of our core network is almost 100 years old, the Moderates are opposed to the construction of a new core network in our country in parallel with what already exists because it would go far too fast.
i-5ed380af12220745-274	Madam President, I would like The countries of the European Union have agreed on new fishing quotas for the Baltic Sea this week. The exceptions that have previously existed for Hanö Bay, among others, have now been removed. This mainly affects small-scale fishing in Blekinge. The fishermen themselves describe this as a death blow to the industry. One problem with the fisheries policy in the Baltic Sea is the large-scale feed fishing, which drains the lake of fish. But this week's decision also affects small-scale human consumption fishing. In order for fishing to survive in the long term and for us to have the living healthy coastlines that we all want, it is important that we do something to help the industry now. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Rural Development what he intends to do to save small-scale human consumption fishing in the Baltic Sea.
i-5ed380af12220745-276	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Åsa Coenraads that the big problem is the incredible pressure on the stocks in the Baltic Sea and the fact that these are becoming smaller and smaller. Had we not succeeded in these negotiations to push back fishing quotas, the risk is quite high that neither large-scale nor small-scale coastal fishing would have been possible in the coming years. Let's just say. Against that background, I am very pleased with the deal that was struck. That is, of course, not to say that it will solve all the problems. This is going to have to be done for a number of years. I am also pleased that we managed to obtain some exceptions precisely for our coastal fishing. We also need to see how we can help many of those who are today dependent on coastal fishing to overcome or survive in the coming years until fish stocks are so strong that we can once again fish more strongly than we can do today. We simply cannot continue to pressure fish stocks in the way we have done historically.
i-5ed380af12220745-279	Madam President, I would like Earlier this year, the government decided on new times for general hunting in Sweden. This meant, among other things, changes in elk hunting, deer hunting and a number of other areas. Those of us who train and have trained new generation hunters in theory course for hunter taxamen have always been able to say that the reason for our different hunting times has been based on biological and ecological considerations. It has been about ethically and effectively managing our various game tribes. Now decisions have been made that are hard to understand from that perspective. Earlier today I got an example from Östergötland where one feels that there is oestrous activity in the elk tribe after the elk hunt has begun in southern Sweden on the new date on 8 October.
i-5ed380af12220745-283	Madam President, I would like Every time we set this kind of hunting time, for example, it is after careful dialogue with our authorities, expert authorities, but of course also research. That is at the heart of the decisions. If you want to politicise it, as Erik Ottoson does, you try to say that it simply cannot be understood. If you read properly, you can see what is the basis for this. It is based on well-processed evidence from our authorities and also from research. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity, as it is the last questioner and probably my last question time, to thank both the Members and the President for this time.
