i-827e003a1037b267-0	Madam President, I would like The earth has a fever, and it rises every day. Everyone who's had a fever knows what it feels like. Even at 1.5 degrees higher fever, you feel really bad. At 2 degrees higher the fever starts to be dangerously high if it is prolonged. At 3 degrees higher fever, the fever is so high that the body is damaged. What may seem to be small temperature differences can have great significance, both for the body and for our planet. The earth already has a fever, and we who live on it have stomach pain, or should at least have it. 1.1 degrees – that is how much the temperature of the earth has already warmed up according to the IPCC report. For the planet, this is a burning fever. In California last summer, 10,000 firefighters fought fires for over two months. 31 000 people fled their homes. Many of them had to return to nothing. Northern Germany and Belgium have suffered severe floods, so also Gävle, which I visited a few weeks ago. Madam President, I would like The world's countries, including Sweden, have promised to limit the warming of the earth to 1.5 degrees. Already there is a high fever. Yet, despite this promise, the world is currently heading for a warming rate of 3 degrees Fahrenheit [3 ° C]. It may not sound so dangerous, but for many this will be the difference between life and death, the difference between a safe home and a life on the run, the difference between a functioning farm and desolate, dehydrated soils. We can't negotiate with the climate. 400 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide – there is so much emissions that we know remain before we have probably already passed the 1.5 degree target. It gives us eight years at today's emission rate - no more than that. Madam President, I would like We are now in a climate emergency. Now is no longer the time for empty words and empty promises. Now is the time for us to adapt climate policy to reality. We need to do much more than what we have previously undertaken to do. And we are in a position where everyone must do everything in our power. It is no longer good to point to anyone else any other time. Madam President, I would like Me and the Green Party have read the IPCC report. That is why the Green Party has called this debate and we have gathered for debate here today. But we draw conclusions from it. The transition isn't fast enough. Therefore, the Green Party now wants to tighten up Sweden's climate targets, so that we are fossil-free already in 2035, not 2045. That's 14 years from now. The IPCC report has given us new facts on the table that are even more frightening than those we already had before us. Now we can choose the path. The Green Party is ready to make the necessary decisions. My question to the other parties is: are you? Are you prepared to agree to tighten the climate target to 2035? Are you prepared, together with us, to set the 2025 deadline for the sale of the last new fossil-powered car in our country? And are you prepared to legislate with us so that no fossil fuels can be extracted in Sweden? These are the three questions I want answers to in today's debate.
i-827e003a1037b267-10	Madam President, I would like Climate change is the destiny of our time. The UN Panel on Climate Change's latest report shows that achieving the climate targets and reducing our emissions is urgent if we are to reach the Paris agreement's goal of limiting the global temperature increase to a maximum of 1.5 degrees by 2030. The situation is urgent. We are now talking about different tipping points for how, for example, ocean currents and large ice caps will be affected when the effects become even more tangible than they already are. The level of ambition in climate action needs to increase rapidly worldwide. All countries have a responsibility to reduce their climate impact and to work towards achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Furthermore, rich countries such as Sweden have a special responsibility to go ahead. Every year that now goes without decreasing global emissions brings us quickly closer to global warming of 1.5 degrees and then, of course, further warming. It also makes the management of the climate challenge and its increasingly extreme effects increasingly difficult. The use of fossil fuels, particularly coal and oil, must be phased out and stopped quickly in order to have a chance to face the most serious consequences of climate change and meet our high objectives. But the responsibility for climate change must never rest on the individual. It is mainly politics, but also business, that must enable everyone to live sustainably. We Social Democrats want to take on the task of coping with the climate crisis by modernising Sweden, pushing down emissions and transforming into a fossil-free welfare society.
i-827e003a1037b267-15	Madam President, I would like The UN Panel on Climate Change shows that man is responsible for climate change and that we see consequences in the event of rain, drought and fires that change the living conditions of people around the world. We saw it this summer in Germany, and we saw this at home in Gävle. I am convinced that we can solve this if we start doing the right things. Unfortunately, however, the government has failed. Climate policy is characterised by inefficiency and symbolic measures that hardly reduce emissions here at home. On repeated occasions, the Climate Policy Council and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have stated that emissions are decreasing far too slowly to even be close to reaching our climate targets. The Minister for the Environment is asking questions to the other parties, but it is really us who should ask the government: how can things go this bad? But it is no wonder, Madam President, that the climate policy of the Green Party is condemned by both voters and experts. The government wants fossil-free electricity, but it's shutting down nuclear power. It wants electric cars, but barely expands the charging infrastructure. It wants to electrify the industry, but not shorten the permit processes. It wants batteries, but it doesn't want to break minerals. It wants biofuels and build houses in wood, but it doesn't use the forest. We need to start saying yes to climate action that makes a real difference. I would like to highlight a number of points that are crucial to our success in the transition. Firstly, it is transport and industry that are responsible for large emissions. They need more clean electricity. That is why, among other things, we want to maintain and build new nuclear power. That is why the Moderates are also investing 1 billion in the expansion of charging poles and in increased support for industry. Secondly, we need to help the business community to switch by helping the industry to invest in new technological developments, on shorter permit processes and also on the capture and storage of carbon dioxide as a complement. Thirdly, the forest is at the heart of climate change. The more we can use Swedish forestry to build houses in wood, the more we can make clothes of wood fibres and the more we can drive on residual products from the forest, the more we can do for the climate. Unfortunately, however, the government wants us to use less forest when we should instead use more forest products. Finally, the issue is global, and global solutions are needed. I would like to see the Swedish Government put on the leadership shirt in the run-up to the UN climate negotiations in a few months' time and push the question that more countries have to put some kind of price on emissions. All the experts agree that this is what is needed. Madam President, I would like The IPCC report underlines the urgency of the matter. A fresh start is therefore needed for Swedish climate policy.
i-827e003a1037b267-27	Madam President, I would like This debate is being held to discuss the climate situation following the latest IPCC report. We have been able to listen to the government's and the Green Party's doomsday theories, where Per Bolund tries to scare people into voting for the Green Party to save the world from destruction. Nothing could be more wrong as the Green Party does not offer a solution to the crucial issue, namely how mankind can consume stable and affordable energy in the future. Madam President, I would like We know what happens when environmental policy is pursued in this area. For example, we have Germany, which has seen shock-raised electricity prices and increased emissions when nuclear power is shut down. We have California, which they too have shut down nuclear power to rely instead on weather-dependent energy, and they have had to get used to power cuts. Now they have started investing in fossil power to keep the electricity grid running. The climate issue is about energy, and it is not by shock raising the price of light trucks for small businessmen in the craft industry that this is solved. The problem is not solved either by paying SEK 7 for a plastic bag on Ica. Nor do we solve the problem when we force diesel motorists to refuel climate-damaging imported biofuels that do look good for Swedish statistics but instead increase emissions globally. Madam President, I would like What can Sweden do? Obviously, we need to think globally. We can contribute through research and development, for example by producing even better nuclear energy. We can contribute with investments in international climate projects. We are contributing within the framework of the EU ETS, which in turn reduces the need for a new national policy – international policy, but national targets and instruments. We must also persuade the large emitters to put a price on carbon dioxide. This is what will determine the evolution of emissions in the future, and Sweden can help make a difference. To do so, however, we must first clean up the red-green placard policy in this area. It makes Sweden poorer without contributing to reductions in emissions globally.
i-827e003a1037b267-33	Madam President, I would like The climate issue is indeed the destiny of our time; it has only become more evident with the IPCC report. It is a threat to our economy, to the world's ecosystems and to the living conditions of billions of people in the world – and here in Sweden. Although this is a challenge that requires a transformation of our entire society, we in the Center Party are hopeful that we can reverse developments. We know more than ever before about the climate crisis and its negative effects. We have all the technology needed to break fossil dependence. We have sustainable fuels and can electrify the transport sector, we can generate negative emissions and we can become ever better at recycling our materials in the transition to a circular economy. We know what needs to be done, and now we need courage and leadership to implement the reforms that are needed. Madam President, I would like The climate is not saved by stopping growth and looking back. We are not reducing emissions by rejecting growth and poverty reduction and all the good that man's inventiveness has brought us. On the contrary, it is precisely through this ingenuity and green growth that we manage the climate transition. Our technology and smart innovations can contribute to jobs and growth here while at the same time reducing emissions in the world. We are convinced that sustainable growth and the green transition are compatible. However, we cannot solve global climate threats alone. Sweden can and must be a driving force in the international climate work. We want Sweden to be a leading country in the EU and for the EU to be a forerunner in the world through a sharp climate diplomacy and ambitious targets. We want Swedish aid to focus clearly on climate change and adaptation. We will work to ensure that the EU's climate policy is implemented so that both Sweden and the EU are climate neutral in 2040. We want to extend the EU ETS to more sectors. We want to phase out all subsidies for fossil fuels, both in Sweden and in the EU. We want to enable non-EU countries to join the EU ETS. We want to see a national target for negative emissions in Sweden, and we want negative emissions to be priced at EU level. Whatever releases and soils should be phased out. The promotion of renewables and greens. Madam President, I would like If we are to be able to solve mankind's destiny today, we need a climate policy that ensures that all forces pull in the same direction. This means clear frameworks that steer the business community towards sustainability. This means international cooperation in order to reduce emissions jointly and severally, and this means that politics, industry, academia and civil society are hooking arms. That is the only way we can reverse the emission curve, Madam President – and we have no choice but to reverse that curve.
i-827e003a1037b267-40	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Green Party for the initiative for this important debate. We in the Left Party took a similar initiative in 2019, when the Climate Policy Council had examined the government's climate policy. What the IPCC climate panel teaches us is that the situation is acute. In the last 2 million years, there has never been as much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere as there is now. We know that we are currently in the fastest increase in temperature in at least the last 2 000 years. It is now less than ten years left to achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of limiting heating to a maximum of 1.5 degrees. The situation is urgent. In fact, we should not be talking about climate change. It is an euphemism for the climate crisis that we are now in. The whole community needs to be changed. All policy areas must shoulder their responsibilities. I really think we all know about what needs to be done. We in the Left Party are very clear. Yes, Per Bolund, we need more stringent climate targets. We want us to have zero emissions in Sweden by 2035. We also need a fair climate policy. It is not okay for a small group in society to deduct and increase their emissions with shopping trips to London, the purchase of large fossil-sucking cars and other things. It is very important that we combine the reduction of emissions with the distribution of society's financial resources. In the same way, it is global. It is we in the rich part of the world who have eaten up most of the world's emissions, while the poor part of the world is hardest hit by the consequences of our emissions. We need global redistribution and justice. We in the Left want to ban new sales of petrol and diesel cars by 2025 at the latest. We want to abolish all environmentally harmful subsidies. We want to promote a reduced flight. Now during the pandemic we have seen a sharp drop in flying. Let us therefore phase out some routes! Replace them with digital work and train travel! We can decommission airports. We can start with Bromma. Above all, we will phase out subsidies to the aviation industry. Unfortunately, they have been very large from the government during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like There is so much that needs to be done, and we need to do it now. If we don't do it now, when will it be done? And if we don't act, who's gonna do it?
i-827e003a1037b267-47	Madam President, I would like A review of this summer's news around the world gives a clear signal that climate change is affecting more and more the world around us and also at home. Yes, some of the weather events we have seen can of course be coincidences, but on the whole it is now far too much to be just coincidences: 49 1⁄2 degrees in western Canada, 48.8 degrees in Sicily, extreme rain in western Germany, 162 millimetres of rain in one day in Gävle – the list can be made much longer just for this summer. The climate panel is very clear in its report. These are not normal variations. It is clear that it is we humans and the emissions we generate that are responsible for climate change. The report is largely bleak reading and should be a wake-up call for those who have not already woken up. At the same time, Madam President, perhaps the most important message in the whole report is that it is not over. The good news IPCC brings is that it is unlikely that the emissions of climate gases that we have so far been able to do are sufficient for the average temperature to rise above one and a half degrees if we act now. Although the emissions we have made will affect the climate for a long time to come, we still have a chance to limit warming to one and a half degrees, and we need to take this on board for a number of reasons. If you make big and decisive decisions in panic, they rarely get well and well thought out. Neither climate combs, meat combs, nor air combs are very effective. Shame and anxiety breed fear, and it is a feeling that very rarely leads to any creative action. On the contrary, it paralyzes. Moreover, all of this is taking faith in the future from our young people, which is devastating. With the opportunities we have, not least technical innovations and our sustainable Swedish forestry, we will be a pioneer country that shows that it is possible to change in a way that does not lead us back and stop development. If it is our goal to stop, we might as well lie down and die. Then we will not bring any more of the great dragons, whose emissions we really must be able to strangle. The big question we have to ask ourselves is how to get China, the United States, India, Russia and others, because that is where we have the big profit to get. It should be pleasurable and fun to change, and it should be done with new innovations that are positive for both man and humanity. If we can show it, then we're a front country. However, if we continue with symbolic politics, dress in sacks and ashes and back into the future, I am not so sure that the hopeful wording of the IPCC report will come to its own.
i-827e003a1037b267-53	Madam President, I would like In the summer of 2021, the news showed daily natural disasters around the world. I guess there's never been a wake-up call that loud. In August came the IPCC report, which states that it is man who causes climate change. They put an end to that discussion. Uncertainty regarding the impact of different emission levels has been minimised. It is stated that, despite imminent risks, we still have the opportunity to reach the 1.5-degree target, even if it gets tough. We Liberals are taking up the opportunities identified. Our climate policy leads Sweden right. We believe that the polluter should pay. Therefore, subsidies on fossil energy will also be removed in Sweden, in Europe and globally. Liberals focus on measures that really dramatically reduce emissions and not on meaningless symbolic policies. We believe in the power of technology and technology-neutral instruments, so that innovators can eliminate emissions. The individual should be able to understand the climate footprint of his or her choices. The costs of conversion are high. Therefore, climate objectives can only be achieved in a growth economy. These seven starting points guide our concrete policies right towards the goal. The EU is crucial to the climate and is the locomotive of the global climate transition. Powerful instruments provide a level playing field for companies and put pressure on the world around them. The emissions trading system must be tightened up, taxonomics must be made technologically neutral and vehicle emissions must be gradually increased. Sweden's going ahead. The backbone of the climate transition is spelled electrification of our vehicles, by industry and by agriculture. It has to happen at a high pace, and the key to the transition is energy. But I'm deeply concerned about the government's meekness and inability to see how it all goes together. Where is the logic behind subsidising electric vehicles and building electric roads if, at the same time, an electricity crisis is created by refusing to decide on the disposal of nuclear waste? How can the whole country flourish when you pull the carpet off aircraft and remove airports instead of focusing on aviation emissions?
i-827e003a1037b267-59	That doesn't make any sense. I note that paradoxically, the government itself has become the greatest threat to Swedish climate policy.
i-827e003a1037b267-60	Madam President, I would like As usual, there are many in this room who prefer to say that someone else should do the job and who think that someone else should act elsewhere some other time. And, of course, it is true that all the countries of the world must do much more to achieve zero emissions in time and prevent a real climate disaster. But what matters to me is what the parties do not say. The Moderates do not talk about how they are fighting for lower climate targets in the EU and how they want to lower the tax on carbon emissions for 7 billion. The Center Party does not say that they want to stop the airline tax, and they even threatened to depose me so that the flight would not have to pay for its climate impact. The Christian Democrats do not tell us that in one stroke they halved the budget for the environment and climate as soon as they got the chance in 2018. And of course, the Swedish Democrats do not tell us how each time they vote down all the proposals that make it cheaper to buy an electric car and more expensive to destroy the climate. It is clear that too many parties are still more afraid of climate policy than of the climate crisis. Madam President, I would like The answer to how we prevent the climate crisis is actually quite simple. We must now ban the fossil fuels that the IPCC so clearly stands for the majority of all climate impacts, and we must replace them with renewable energy and efficiency efficiency. We must cultivate the land and nature in a way that cares for it, and not abuse it. We must build a society and an economy within the boundaries of the planet. But as simple as the answer is, it seems as difficult for many parties to make the necessary decisions. The Green Party is a party that is making change here and now. We are currently preparing a ban on the extraction and exploitation of fossil fuels in Sweden. Are you other parties prepared to support such a proposal along with other countries around the world that are about to do so? Steel without carbon is currently being produced in Oxelösund. Right now more than half of all cars sold are rechargeable, and soon the battery factory in Skellefteå will open. Over SEK 110 billion has been invested in wind power in Sweden in recent years, which increases renewable electricity production to our industries and vehicles. The Green Party wants all industries in Sweden to leave the fossil era behind. We want to make it easy for people to travel by train both in Sweden and out in Europe. We want to invest in education and training so that people can take the thousands of new green jobs that are emerging. The Green Party wants to see an end date for our fossil dependence in 2030. We have a plan to change Sweden. The question is, what does your plan look like?
i-827e003a1037b267-66	Madam President and the Government. The government has a plan, and we've been trying it now for seven years. Things have not gone very well, given that emissions are not falling as they should. Instead, the government should address the critical issues, which are that we need twice as much electricity by 2045 to cope with the changeover. Let's just bring it in: twice as much electricity to 2045! In that situation, the government says: we do not want nuclear power to be part of this. I can agree that we need more wind power and more solar energy. But why does nuclear power not have a place in the Green Party's response to climate change? Why is nuclear resistance more important than climate change? And why is it refusing to decide on the disposal of nuclear waste? Even State Vattenfall believes that it will mean that we may have to close reactors in 2024 if we do not get a long-term solution to the issue.
i-827e003a1037b267-69	Madam President, I would like Electrification is a very important part of meeting climate goals. Therefore, we can be pleased that Sweden has a record electricity surplus due to the rapid growth of renewable electricity. The reason for this is that it is the most profitable; that is what the market wants to invest in. Let me remind Jessica Rosencrantz that we have an energy agreement made by Parliament. It says that you can build nuclear power in Sweden. The problem for Jessica Rosencrantz is that nobody wants to build nuclear power in Sweden, because it is simply not profitable. Then, of course, we must ensure that we can phase out nuclear power at the required rate and replace it with renewable energy, and that is exactly what is happening in Sweden. We have a huge opportunity to expand more renewable energy production in Sweden, which can lead to more than a doubling of electricity use if needed. But then we should also let the market prevail. My question to Jessica Rosencrantz is: why do we not let market forces prevail and the market decide what energy it wants to invest in?
i-827e003a1037b267-73	Madam President, I would like It is a little laughable that nuclear energy has been taxed in criminal terms over the years and then proposes strong subsidies for offshore wind power and calls it market forces. We can put that aside. In fact, we need twice as much electricity by 2045. Nuclear power needs to be part of it. Experts warn that if this government does not decide on an intermediate and final repository together, it risks leading to even more reactors being closed in 2024. My question is: can the government guarantee that the application will now go through with regard to the interim detention? Most experts warn that now that the government divides these two decisions, it may all fall. What is the government's promise? It is the government itself that has put Sweden in this situation.
i-827e003a1037b267-76	Madam President, I would like It is telling that the Moderates at any given time when we are talking about climate change want a sham debate on nuclear power. That is all you want to talk about, despite the fact that nuclear energy accounts for an ever smaller part of Swedish electricity production. Now we're down to 30%. There was a rather sharp decline between 2019 and 2020. Nevertheless, we had a record surplus of electricity because renewable electricity takes over and is much cheaper to build. We have made a decision in the government to increase the capacity of the intermediate nuclear waste storage facility. This means that we will not end up in a situation where the intermediate layer will be full, as would have been the case if the Moderate line had been followed. It would have been an irresponsible decision for Sweden. We will ensure that we reach the parliamentary target of 100 percent renewable electricity, but we will do so in a controlled way that will give us more electricity that we can replace fossil fuels with. The obsession of Moderates with nuclear power is not a solution to the climate challenge in any way. It's too expensive, it's too slow and it can't solve our problems here and now.
i-827e003a1037b267-80	Madam President, I would like Demand for energy is what drives emissions in the world and in Sweden. But the government has been snowing into a radical biofuels policy where we import most of it. To a large extent, the fuel is produced by climate-damaging palm oil production in Asia. They decided on road and aviation reduction obligations will increase the need for biofuels by nearly 100%. We could all see how the diesel pulled off with 70 cents in August when the levels were screwed up. It is something that strikes the countryside, agriculture and forestry. The latter two are central to contributing to the reduction of emissions. I wonder: What would the Minister think would be the effect if more countries copied Sweden's biofuels policy? Sweden wants to be an example. If all countries wanted this kind of reduction, what does the Minister think would happen to world emissions?
i-827e003a1037b267-83	Madam President, I would like First of all, the government has also decided that environmentally harmful biofuels should not be used, such as those derived from palm oil. Without what we are going to use, the climate-smart and the best biofuels are. Martin Kinnunen does not seem to have understood that we can produce biofuels in Sweden, which is important to remember, and this production is increasing. There are very ambitious plans to increase production even more. So we can stop importing oil from Russia and the Middle East, that is, from countries that do not share our view of democracy and human rights. Instead, we can produce fuels in Sweden, which gives Swedish investments and jobs. But the Swedish Democrats do not want to go that way, and I am very concerned about that. I would say that the most dangerous way to go is the way that the Swedish Democrats want to go: to do nothing at all, to turn a blind eye to the climate crisis and to lock people in our country – even those in rural areas – into old technology solutions. They will prove to be extremely expensive and make it difficult for people to manage and live in rural areas.
i-827e003a1037b267-86	Madam President, I would like We're not going to ban palm oil. However, it must be certified. But it won't work because you drive the demand for all palm oil by certifying palm oil. Sweden will unfortunately continue to contribute to the destruction of rainforests in the world. It would be completely disastrous if additional and larger countries introduced a reduction obligation in the vicinity of Sweden. It is true that Swedish biofuel production is increasing, but it will not be able to increase by 1 000 per cent in ten years. We will still have a biofuels policy that contributes to increased emissions in the world. In fact, palm oil production emits much more if indirect effects are taken into account than Norwegian oil, for example. It's better to focus on electrification. That's where we have the key. This slot means high prices for consumers and bad effects on the climate.
i-827e003a1037b267-89	Madam President, I would like I should like to congratulate Martin Kinnunen on the fact that we are on our way to achieving the climate targets for the transport sector. These are goals that were previously heard from many quarters were almost impossible to reach. But through government policy, we are about to achieve a 70% reduction in emissions by 2030, in nine years' time. We can do that by using multiple tools. When the Swedish Democrats pretend to use some, we use all the necessary ones. We use electrification. Sweden is at the forefront in the EU in terms of sales of rechargeable cars. Half of our cars today are rechargeable. We use biofuels for the 5 million cars rolling on our streets. We are not doing what the Swedish Democrats are doing, that is, turning a blind eye to the climate problems and pretending that we can continue as before, but we are replacing fossil fuels with renewables. In addition, we are replacing unsustainable modes of transport with sustainable ones. We invest heavily in the railways. We make sure to build transport-efficient societies that reduce demand. Together, this provides a sustainable transport policy that can also be used by other countries. I'm proud of that.
i-827e003a1037b267-92	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has pushed for both Sweden and the EU to be climate neutral by 2040. It is welcome if the Green Party now wants to push for the year instead to be 2035. We are not opposed to that in any way. But if there is something we need, it is not new climate targets but that we are showing results and that we are achieving the climate targets that we have set. If the Green Party is to pursue the objective of 2035, it must also present an action plan that not only drives emissions abroad. It is notable, Madam President, that emissions have not fallen sharply during the time of the Green Party in the government. This isn't just a coincidence. It is a question of having difficulty solving the authorisation issues. It has been difficult to sort out the long-term conditions for biofuels. It has been difficult to get good conditions for establishing new green energy. Not least, it is about creating uncertainty about the Swedish forest and its role in the climate transition. My question to the Government is: Why should a voter trust that the Green Party is able to achieve the climate goals it wants to pursue?
i-827e003a1037b267-95	Madam President, I would like It is very clear that Sweden appears as an example internationally. When the environmental movement classes the climate policy of different countries, Sweden is highlighted. When Ursula von der Leyen gave her speech State of the European Union, she highlighted a project, namely Steel without Coal in Sweden. It is an innovative industrial project that has come about because we have supported industrial investments that lead to sustainability. When we can switch steel production in Sweden and move from carbon to hydrogen, we can cut Sweden's emissions by 10 percent on a board. It is through the transformative steps that we have the opportunity to both reduce our emissions and make Sweden more competitive. We see how tens of thousands of new jobs are now being created in not least northern Sweden due to government policy. We have dared to set goals. We have dared to drive the industry ahead of us. We are also helping the industry to make the necessary investments. This is a development of which I am proud, and we shall continue with it. If we continue and also receive more support from other parties, we have every opportunity to achieve the objectives.
i-827e003a1037b267-98	Madam President, I would like I think we are all very happy that Sweden is being highlighted as an example, but we know that Swedish politics so far is not enough. The fact that we are further ahead than other countries is no reason to sit back. I think everyone in this House is extremely pleased that the Swedish base industry has indicated that it wants to change and achieve climate neutrality. I also believe that all parties here agree that this is something that should be supported by the public. What I am talking about, however, are the other parts of the social transition. How do we solve the transport transition in the whole country? How do we replace the materials in the construction industry with sustainable materials from Swedish forests and agriculture? How do we replace fossil chemicals with sustainably based chemicals? There, the Swedish forest has an extremely important role. These are the elements that the Green Party is risking. There is a risk of watering out the Swedish transformation. I don't hear any answers to why you do it and how to reverse it so that we can use all the forces and resources available for the green transition.
i-827e003a1037b267-100	Madam President, I would like It is very gratifying to hear that all other parties are happy about the change that is taking place. But it is not enough to be happy. You have to do the job, too. That's what the Green Party has done. It is we who have ensured that this development is now taking place. We have done so by having high ambitions, which we have led other parties to support. We have also made huge investments in an industrial transition and a transport transition that is now in full swing. It is not without reason that the outside world is now looking at Sweden to see how to cope with the transition to a sustainable society and economy. However, it is important that we keep our eyes on several goals at the same time. We cannot just solve the climate crisis while at the same time causing a natural crisis that becomes unmanageable for us. We're in a sixth species extinction. This means that we must take account of and take responsibility for biodiversity. The Green Party's response to this is that we must manage both to care for the forest – to protect the forest worthy of protection – and, at the same time, to use the forest in a sustainable way so that we can have biofuels and products that can replace, for example, steel and concrete. However, we do not intend to have a unilateral policy as does the Center Party.
i-827e003a1037b267-104	Madam President, I would like Per Bolund forgot a few things in his list of what the government is doing. During the coronapandemine, the government has subsidised the aviation industry with SEK 17 billion. The railway industry has received approximately SEK 2 billion. So it has become eight times more for flights than for railways. How climate smart is that? The government is preparing for the construction of new motorways, which is condemned by a united environmental movement and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I am thinking, for example, of Tvärtändning Södertörn here in Stockholm. Most recently, the government has made a budget release on subsidies of SEK 2 billion to private carism this year, while public transport will receive nothing this year and only SEK 1 billion next year. In addition, the environmental code will now be eroded to accommodate Sweden's second largest emitter, Cementa. Per Bolund! How does this reduce our emissions? Why are you doing this?
i-827e003a1037b267-107	Madam President, I would like For starters, I think you'd better take those numbers with a pinch of salt. I don't buy them. It is clear that the Green Party wants to provide for an orderly transition to a sustainable society. We do not want to make a transition that leads to high unemployment, chaos and that we simply do not have order. I think that's the best condition for us to bring the people with us. If we do not have popular support for the policies being pursued, it will be difficult to hear and implement them at the required pace. I find it hard to understand Jens Holm. Does he mean that we should not do anything to get an orderly delivery of the building materials – cement– on which we in society depend today? Are we going to risk 200 000 people's jobs? Is that the policy of the Left Party? That is not what I hear from the Left Party leader anyway. But of course we are ambitious. We want all parts of society to have zero emissions. We have roadmaps that are about to be implemented, but we are going to do this at the pace that society is capable of.
i-827e003a1037b267-111	Madam President, I would like We really need a structured transition, and we really need the whole of society with us. Therefore, it is so frustrating to see that the government continues to fatten a small click with its subsidies. What is wrong with the figure when it comes to 17 billion dollars going to the aviation industry? That is the money the government has brought in to SAS, to other airlines, to airports and so on. What is wrong with the figures when it comes to 2 billion SEK going to private carism in the latest budget play and 0 SEK going to public transport? Of course, we need to save industries when they are affected, but there must be some proportions in this. We see a one-sided list of areas that emit a lot and where there are very loud economic interests. But the mass, which is very dependent on public transport, for example, is left behind. It is not a fair climate policy, nor is it an effective climate policy.
i-827e003a1037b267-114	Madam President, I would like I must note that the Left Party believes that we should make a transition that risks hundreds of thousands of people's jobs here and now. We want a transition that leads to more jobs in Sweden. It's Green Party policy. But it is also easy to stand by and criticize. If you want to get something done in Swedish politics, you have to be there and do the job and also negotiate – that's what politics is all about. I am proud that we are now spending the money that people who make an active environmental choice are actually entitled to. When you choose to buy an electric car, which reduces our climate impact, makes the air cleaner, reduces noise and makes our urban areas better, you should of course have a bonus. However, if you release a lot from your car, you should pay more. That is the government's policy. Jens Holm obviously means that you should not give a bonus to anyone who buys an electric car. You think the conversion will go by itself. That's not what we're seeing. On the contrary, we are proud that every other car is now rechargeable. Every fourth car is a pure electric car. This is because the Green Party is in the government and takes responsibility.
i-827e003a1037b267-119	Madam President, I would like Business and industry are examples. They want to go ahead and reschedule for a number of reasons. They have to do it if they're going to have a chance in the competition, if they're going to be playable and if they're going to be in the game. It's as simple as that. But in very many parts the government is doing what it can to put a stop to this. We have heard earlier in the debate about power shortages and the lack of electricity. We have heard about nuclear power and the question of disposal. We are not going to break cement in Sweden. We're gonna get that somewhere else. We should not use the Swedish forest. We need a lot of minerals for batteries, among other things, but it should not be broken in Sweden. We have lengthy and complicated state-of-the-art processes that the government does not want to do anything about. We're going to ask again, but I have to ask the Minister, with what are we going to ask about and for what?
i-827e003a1037b267-122	Madam President, I would like I take that as a rhetorical question, because I think Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson also sees what is happening in Sweden. We are getting a rapid increase in the use of electric transport. Electric cars and rechargeable cars are now taking over the market, and they are mainly powered by renewable electricity, because it is the one that is increasing in Sweden. It's a resource we're going to use. We now also see how Sweden is leading the development of industrial processes that are no longer dependent on coal, as they have been for about 1 000 years. This applies, for example, to steel production. We are now moving to hydrogen, hydrogen produced with renewable electricity, which is growing enormously fast in Sweden because we have a policy that makes it possible to invest and to generate more renewable electricity in our country. That is also what our industries are asking for. When you ask Northvolt what they want to use in their industrial processes and charge their batteries with, they say: It is a competitive advantage for us that we have renewable electricity that can be delivered. That's what our customers are asking for. The Christian Democrats do not want to give them this; they want to back up and use old techniques and old solutions. That is not our way forward.
i-827e003a1037b267-125	Madam President, I would like Yes, that is what Minister Bolund says: We absolutely see what is happening. Industry by industry expresses a great deal of concern about what happens when it comes to the lack of electricity, about the lack of cement, about how to use the Swedish forest, about our mines and about licensing processes. It is very clear throughout our country that the industries are extremely concerned about what is going to happen. In its opening statement, the Government said that everyone must do everything. But apparently it's not about the government. It's not in everyone, because the government doesn't do everything. You don't want to take advantage of the Swedish forest. You do not want to take advantage of the Swedish mineral, for example, and use it, but we will get it from elsewhere. That is exactly what Mr Bolund mentioned earlier that we should not do. We wouldn't put it on others. Why, then, should we not do this ourselves, when we have the opportunities? That is our competitive advantage.
i-827e003a1037b267-127	Madam President, I would like Debates are not very rewarding if you fight straw dolls. I guess it's better to look at reality the way it is. We have absolutely said that we should use the Swedish forest – there is no doubt about that – and so do we. And there is the opportunity to use the forest more to replace, for example, fossil fuels and concrete that have a major climate impact. There is in no way a ban on mining minerals in Sweden. However, it is self-evident that we must comply with the environmental laws that the Swedish parliament, including the Christian Democrats, has supported. We should not have to have a debate on that here today. But what is also important is that we use the most effective methods to achieve our goals, and there we know that electrification is an incredibly good way forward. Sweden is at the forefront when it comes to using rechargeable cars. Their sales are growing fastest in Sweden across the EU, and industry is leading developments globally. We have international collaborations where more and more countries want to learn from Sweden's journey towards becoming fossil-free. We should be happy about that.
i-827e003a1037b267-130	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action could not find any fault with the Liberals' climate policy. Thank you for that! I share that view. However, the government's policy does not go together. This is becoming apparent to an increasing number of people affected by the consequences. Companies and jobs are missing because of electricity shortages and because of the instability of the electricity grids when nuclear power is removed. The government refuses to decide on the disposal of nuclear fuel for ideological reasons despite the fact that the organisations concerned agree on a solution. This is not taking responsibility for Sweden. How does the Government view the Environmental Party's responsibility for the electricity crisis we are experiencing and for the lack of much-needed business start-ups around the country? Where's your plan?
i-827e003a1037b267-133	Madam President, I would like The truth is rather that there were so many errors in Liberal politics that there was no way of getting it into a three-minute speech. I'd like to correct Helena Gellerman. We do not have a shortage of electricity in Sweden. We have an electricity surplus. Anyone can see in the statistics that there is a surplus of electricity production in Sweden. Then it goes without saying that when you build new industries, you have to build pipes, just as you have to build roads when you build new residential areas. Of course we're in the middle of that work. We are also in the process, at a high pace and with great energy, of reviewing this so that we can shorten, for example, permit periods. I also want to correct Helena Gellerman when it comes to the custody. We have decided on the intermediate layer, which is, of course, the critical time factor when it comes to managing nuclear waste. It gives us time to actually try the question of final storage in the seriousness it deserves. It is a question that goes into the future a hundred thousand years and which concerns one of the most dangerous substances we know of. It has to be taken seriously.
i-827e003a1037b267-136	Madam President, I would like I do not think I really got an answer to my question. In addition, I am thinking of what the Government wanted answers to. It concerns the target year and that it should be changed to 2035. In fact, I see this as a fog curtain because the government does not have a plan for how to reach the 2045 target year. I would like to raise another question. The name of your party obliges. You say that you protect both the environment and climate. However, I find it difficult to see how your policy goes together. You are shutting down nuclear power, which together with hydropower is what provides stability in the power system, and you rely on biofuels, solar and wind turbines. To cope with climate change, we will need a doubling of electricity, and without nuclear power, this policy will hit our environment and diversity very hard. How are you gonna do that?
i-827e003a1037b267-139	Madam President, I would like Unlike the Liberals and, I believe, all parties in here, the Green Party has taken seriously the impression of the IPCC report that came a few weeks ago. We have developed a climate roadmap that we will present in the autumn where we report exactly the steps that we see are needed to not only reach the goal of 2045, which the research very clearly says is too late, but actually bring it forward to 2035. Since we listen to the research, we say that then, of course, we adapt the goal to the new map and to the best science we have. We have the decisions that need to be made. We have a plan for how to do it. Unfortunately, I do not hear anything from the Liberals about this. Rather, it is a mantra that returns that the only solution is nuclear power, despite the fact that nuclear power is too expensive. Nobody wants to build it. It takes too long, decades to come. The climate crisis is here and now. Let's figure this out right now!
i-827e003a1037b267-141	Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic-led government has taken and continues to take responsibility for a climate transition that creates more green jobs and makes it easier for people to live in a sustainable way. We have significantly increased local climate investments, we continue to support the industry's transition to fossil-free production and we invest in electric roads, charging poles and extended bicycle and public transport. Investments in green technologies and continuing to make it easier for industry to change are very central to our climate policy. Therefore, for example, the Government's investment in Hybrid for fossil-free steel production is crucial for the climate as well as for more jobs and stronger welfare. The government is investing billions to reduce the transport sector's climate impact. Through an improved bonus – the Malus system, we can reach the transport sector's target of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030 by steadily moving towards vehicles with lower emissions. By continuing to invest in more green jobs in rural areas, a fossil-free vehicle fleet, an expanded electricity infrastructure and a continued industrial transition, politics and industry together can create the conditions for people to live sustainably. We have a major and important task ahead of us. It has been made quite clear here today. I think that the task is to help create more jobs and also to ensure that no one is left out when we change and become the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-827e003a1037b267-147	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Westerén! Climate change in Sweden is based on two critical elements: more electricity and more forest products. Power is being shut down when nuclear power is being shut down; we have already had a debate on that. But even the forest should not be used if you ask this government, even though the forest is needed to build more wood and drive on biofuels. Although almost a third of Swedish forests are already excluded from production, the government therefore does not want an area as large as Västmanland to be used either. The Green Party is not content with that – they want to exempt twice as much forest compared to today. I therefore wonder: what is the response of the Social Democrats? Do we manage the climate change if we are to use less of our forest in the future? Are the Social Democrats behind the proposal to exclude an area as large as Västmanland from future use?
i-827e003a1037b267-150	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that the way forward must be on a steady course and that we must keep our country together. The forest is our green gold. It has enormous potential, and the Social Democrats fully support the equal goals of forests around production and the preservation of common values. For us Social Democrats, it is quite obvious that there is enormous potential in the forest given its role in the climate transition. Therefore, I do not really see any reason for anyone to hesitate about the attitude of the Social Democrats in relation to the forest. It will play a central role in the transition, and we are absolutely convinced that there are navigable ways forward.
i-827e003a1037b267-152	Madam President, I would like I believe that everyone who listens to this debate and has just heard Hanna Westerén has many questions left. Do the Social Democrats want to protect more or less forest in the future? Do we need to use more or less forest to cope with climate change? So do the Social Democrats support the investigation's proposal that, in addition to what we are already exempting from use today, we should also exclude an area corresponding to the whole of Västmanland? What is the response of the Social Democrats? Should we use more or less forest to succeed in climate change? In SVT's Agenda last Sunday we could hear the Minister for the Environment comparing the Swedish private forest owners, whose forest, often family owned, has been cared for for for generations, with Bolsonaros's deforestation in the Amazon. Is it also the view of the Social Democrats as to why Swedish forestry should be made more difficult?
i-827e003a1037b267-155	Madam President, I would like I thank Jessica Rosencrantz for the supplementary questions, although I feel that most of them were rhetorical. As I said earlier, we naturally want to take advantage of the potential of the Swedish forest. As far as the proposals of the Forest Investigation are concerned, we are not finished with this issue, but I would like to emphasise once again the importance of harnessing the potential of Swedish forests. We have previously had forest debates where there have been various claims about property rights. Ownership is central to us Social Democrats, and of course you should be able to use your forest in a sustainable way. I don't think it's good for anyone to claim that we'd go untruthful or say anything about the forest that's not right. The forest should be allowed to be used according to its full potential in the climate transition.
i-827e003a1037b267-158	Madam President, I would like What we are seeing today is a social democratic government that is stuck in the clutches of a shrinking and desperate environmental party. The result we see is a policy of shutdown. Important minerals needed for conversion stay on the slopes. The Swedish construction industry and the part of the mineral industry that is still allowed to operate are threatened by a lack of cement. Government Vattenfall has, in fact against its will, forced, for example, to publish regulatory communications that today it does not know whether nuclear power will be able to continue to operate within a few years due to a lack of final disposal decisions. My question to the honourable Member is: how far will it have to go before the Social Democrats are prepared to reconsider their cooperation with the Green Party?
i-827e003a1037b267-160	Madam President, I would like I believe that everything must be seen as a whole. I am extremely proud to be part of a government base that has achieved so much in seven years when it comes to climate policy. We see a buzzing work in the service of the climate throughout the country. I myself have been involved in the work on getting more effective permit processes, and I know that this is a priority for the current government. I regret that not everyone is now behind the energy agreement. There were stable rules for Sweden ahead. I also find it regrettable that we are discussing nuclear energy over and over again when nuclear power is considered unprofitable at present, as has been said earlier in this debate, Madam President. Anyone who wants to build nuclear power is free to do so, but it will not save the climate. It's too urgent.
i-827e003a1037b267-162	Madam President, I would like People are free to build nuclear power in Sweden, it is sometimes said. But can you build a new nuclear power plant anywhere in Sweden? Can you apply for permission and build anywhere, or is it in certain limited places? Why do the Social Democrats think that one should only be allowed to build in certain predetermined places? Do you have permission to build modern small, modular reactors? Are there any plans to develop such legislation? We know the answers to these questions, but is it not better to say that you do not think that nuclear power should be built and therefore have very strict rules that in principle make it impossible to build new nuclear power? No one will trust that it will be allowed to operate, and therefore there is no reason to invest. Isn't it better to be honest with this? Nuclear power must not be built; it must only exist where the old reactors are.
i-827e003a1037b267-165	Madam President, I would like If you are to be honest, anyone who wants to build new nuclear power will also have to make it clear to their voters and to those who listen where it will be built. We Social Democrats do not want to build new nuclear power. We believe in the renewable energy laws and the development that is currently taking place in Sweden. I do not see the role of new nuclear power there. That is the short answer.
i-827e003a1037b267-167	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear Mrs Westerén say exactly what she says in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on the part of the Social Democrats when we deal with this. It is entirely agreed that the Swedish forest should be managed. It shall be part of and a powerful engine in the green transition. I'm very grateful to hear that. But the fact remains – during this and the previous parliamentary term, when you have been in government, you have not been able to sort out the long-term conditions for forestry and its role in the green transition. This, I think, becomes particularly clear when the question of the new taxonomy of the European Union comes up on the table. It does not state the forest as a natural part of the renewable transformation, and it also gives the Swedish hydropower really bad conditions. Should this become a reality, it threatens not only the Swedish transformation but also forest owners and those who work in forestry. I wonder when the Social Democrats will come up on the track, for the Swedish forest and against the EU's proposal for a new taxonomy.
i-827e003a1037b267-171	Madam President, I would like The question is which end to begin. Perhaps I should start by clarifying that the ambition of the Social Democrats, which Magnus Ek himself describes and which we have also explained in committee, is the same. We have high ambitions for the Swedish forest. We know that it is absolutely indispensable in the transition. We also have an incredible challenge ahead of us when it comes to keeping the whole country together through the transition. We know that the forest and the conditions we present to the forest will be part of the solution. So the ambition of the Social Democrats is the same: the equal goals, to allow the forest to reach its full potential and, of course, if necessary, to stand up for Swedish self-determination in relation to forests.
i-827e003a1037b267-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for those words. What the honourable Member is saying is exactly what the Center Party and many other parties in this House are also running. The fact remains, however, that the Social Democrats do not come up on the track when we in politics have real problems for Swedish forest owners and when the EU's taxonomy, in line with other EU proposals, means that the conditions for the forest to continue to develop as a Swedish base industry but also to be the engine of the Swedish transformation of society are threatened. Last week, MEPs of the Moderate Party and the Center Party submitted a joint reservation against taxonomics. This is a clear example of how you can act as a Swedish party when taxonomy risks landing so wrong. In the same way, the Swedish Government should act in order for this proposal to be withdrawn, reworked and presented in a new and better form. When will we see this kind of action by the Social Democrats? This is crucial for the green transformation in Sweden.
i-827e003a1037b267-179	Madam President, I would like I think Magnus Ek knows that we Social Democrats are friends of collaborative solutions and of finding broad solutions. I believe that, not least with regard to the Swedish forest, it will be absolutely crucial with broad solutions and agreements that last over time. I am absolutely convinced and confident in the line I want us in the Social Democrats to pursue at European level. It is once again a matter of national self-determination in relation to forests, so that we can take advantage of the potential of forests as far as possible, whether we are talking about woodhouse building, biofuels or any of the other goods that the forest can deliver.
i-827e003a1037b267-181	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the fact that Hanna Westerén mentioned the importance of reducing emissions from road haulage. There are very large emissions we are talking about – the transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions. A major problem is the greatly increased transport of trucks on our motorways. Just look at the E4 north and south and the E20 and E18 west– it's full of trucks. There will be large emissions and congestion, and it is also a form of social dumping for the truckers who drive there. Hanna Westerén, in a drawer in one of the departments, has since 2018 a concrete proposal for a so-called road wear charge for truck transport. I would like to ask when the government intends to introduce the proposal for a road user charge for the carriage of heavy goods vehicles. This is the single most effective way of reducing emissions from heavy transport on our roads. Why don't you put it out there?
i-827e003a1037b267-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! It is always refreshing when there are some new elements to this kind of debate. As we have mentioned in the past, the government is trying to have as broad a toolbox as possible with as many measures as possible that really forcefully push down emissions. The road user fee may be part of this, but it is not ready for decision. On the other hand, there are other measures that make a significant contribution to the transfer of goods from our roads to rail and maritime transport. So this is not the only tool in the box. For example, I would like to highlight the eco-bonus, which actually also makes a big difference on our roads when it comes to reducing emissions. Unfortunately, Jens Holm will have to wait a little while on the road wear charge.
i-827e003a1037b267-187	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this shows the government's paralysis in the field of climate change. The sharpest proposals, which would really make a difference when it comes to reducing our emissions, are not being put forward. A joint research team says that a tax on long-distance transport is the single most important tool for reducing the number of long-distance transport on our roads, but also for us to be able to transfer resources to more sustainable transport. Ecobonus is a good proposal, but much more resources are needed than that. Sweden is now embarrassing itself on this issue. Almost all EU countries have now introduced some form of mileage tax on lorries, but Sweden has not done so. When we negotiated with the Social Democratic Government in the past, we produced the concrete proposal for a road toll, but it is obviously still in that drawer. I find that deeply disheartening. Can Hanna Westerén give a concrete example of more effective ways to reduce emissions than road wear and tear charges?
i-827e003a1037b267-191	Madam President, I would like I find it a little regrettable that concepts such as paralysis are being used when we are discussing such a serious issue and when we can actually also demonstrate a whole series of measures that significantly reduce emissions. In this context, I would like to highlight bonus– malus, reduction obligation and eco-bonus. There are a number of measures, and time passes. The toolbox is growing de facto, and this is what the government has taken on board: to keep moving forward with broad popular support and to have a range of measures that strike different parts of the country but have the same goal, namely that emissions should be reduced significantly.
i-827e003a1037b267-193	Madam President, I would like If you google on the Social Democrats, you get some old hits with the epithet that But as I said, it's old dates and old epithet. In the government with the Environmental Party, the Social Democrats have allowed themselves to be driven over completely in many for Sweden very important issues.
i-827e003a1037b267-195	The policy that the government is pursuing today cannot possibly be the policy of the Social Democrats, otherwise they have made a huge reversal.
i-827e003a1037b267-196	Madam President, I would like To begin with, I can say that I am a little flattered and at the same time a little offended that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson feels compelled to google on the Social Democrats. There are quite a few of us here that he can have a little conversation with, as we are happy to tell you about both our history and our present situation. We are still the only workers' party. The transition is for us about the green jobs. It is absolutely fundamental and central to our policy. It is also as we have seen in every climate effort that we have launched the effects throughout the country and the number of jobs that are emerging. We know that there are jobs linked to electrification, we know that there are jobs linked to both new and old mines and we know that there are jobs linked to new fossil-free production. The Labour Party The Social Democrats are perfectly well and still stand on the side of the Swedish workers.
i-827e003a1037b267-197	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this is not visible externally in the sectors I have just mentioned. Hanna Westerén mentioned green jobs and said in her speech earlier that no one should be left out. Some that this government really leaves out, as we have heard in previous posts, are our Swedish forest owners. The forest is our great competitive advantage. It's the forest that's going to help us in the transition. Forest carbon sequestration is 55 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. Substitution, i.e. replacement of carbon-intensive materials, is 42 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The forestry industry is climate positive. Sustainable Swedish forestry is extremely important. Yet the government, with the Social Democrats at the forefront, will be involved in halting forestry. Land must be expropriated from forest owners that they have managed year after year. Why do the Social Democrats not want to use the Swedish forest?
i-827e003a1037b267-200	Madam President, I would like Now we are getting into the situation that we are standing and having a battle for the same reality. As I have tried to exemplify before, the Social Democrats have a deeply known love but perhaps above all a great faith in the potential of the forest in the transition. This is also why the forest investigation has been central in coming up with the very complex issues for forestry and actually finding a balance between the equal goals. Of course we will produce all the products and services that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson highlighted, and of course we will also preserve and protect where necessary. Of course, the forest will have a central part for every social democrat who is part of a government.
i-827e003a1037b267-202	Madam President, I would like The process of eliminating emissions has two parts. Society must ensure the use of fossil-free energy. But then we also have to produce clean energy in sufficient quantity when it is needed and where it is needed. Liberals have been a driving force in electrification under the January Agreement, not least in the field of transport. We initiated the Electrification Commission and have driven the government ahead of us in the area by area. Unfortunately, energy has not been within the framework of the January agreement, but the government has made its own decisions. We are now seeing the result, not least through the energy crisis in southern Sweden. My question is: what is the logic behind subsidising vehicles and wanting to build electric roads while creating an electric crisis that prevents vehicles from being recharged?
i-827e003a1037b267-205	Madam President, I would like It always feels a little strange to put words in the mouth of others, but Minister Bolund mentioned earlier the situation we have on the Swedish electricity market. Nevertheless, we have a surplus of electricity, but we have certain challenges with regard to transmission capacity. I find it very distressing that we end up again and again in the discussion about whether there are actually obstacles to electrification. Electrification will be absolutely central to the transformation for Sweden. I have no concern that electrification will remain a very important part. I am absolutely convinced that we can overcome the challenges that remain, preferably together. Speaking of what was or was not included in the January agreement, there have been some fundamentals in Sweden who have unfortunately burned up or broken. The energy agreement is part of it, which I can only regret.
i-827e003a1037b267-208	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, but I do not think there are so many who agree with the honourable Member that it is distressing that the huge energy crisis that we are experiencing is coming up time and again. It has to be solved. I would like to raise a related question. The Social Democrats believe that they are protecting jobs. At the same time, they lack the drive to take the necessary decisions to cope with energy supply, which has resulted in the country having had to say no to business start-ups. For example, Robertsfors loses 2,000 jobs. The policies of the Social Democrats do not go together. How will industry be able to reset and start up and create jobs when the electricity grid is unstable and electricity is missing where it is needed?
i-827e003a1037b267-211	Madam President, I would like I have understood that you should not bring any items or props in the speaker's chair, but sometimes it would really be beneficial to be able to hold up a sign where it says: Work is in progress. This is actually what is happening in Swedish industry right now. Work is under way, and there is an enormous change that is being promoted by political decisions and by political priorities. Many of you who have spoken today have realised that there is an enormous willingness to change in Swedish industry. It is also something that we, the government, are trying to face. There is a huge demand for climate change, industrial life and eco-bonus. Work is in progress. There is a great belief in the future when it comes to industrial change, and that is precisely what we are trying to identify and meet and make the best possible of in terms of jobs and development throughout the country.
i-827e003a1037b267-212	Madam President, I would like I think it is time for us to start talking seriously about the climate crisis being an energy crisis. Transport and industry will require us to double our electricity use to 2045. The Green Party and the Social Democrats say that some of the parties in this House, not least the Moderates, talk too much about nuclear power. The problem is that the government is dismantling nuclear power. We agree that we need more renewable. The big question is why we cannot agree that nuclear power is also needed if we are to succeed in climate change and double the amount of electricity. It is simply madness to shut down nuclear power when we need so much more electricity. It is a small consolation for companies and people around Sweden that the Minister for the Environment says that we do not have a shortage of electricity, when the fact is that companies cannot make investments around the country because electricity does not exist when it is needed, or that people are told not to vacuum certain days of the year because electricity does not exist when it is needed. There has been talk of market forces. We are currently seeing the expansion of nuclear power in the UK and in very many other countries. We have companies like Uniper in Sweden that want to invest in the new technology. We see how state Vattenfall invests in Estonia. At home, however, the potential of nuclear power, and hence the climate shift, is prevented by the fact that we have an objective that excludes nuclear power – that nuclear power must not be built in more places than where we have nuclear power today and that other types of power must be subsidised. It is time we began to realise that it is not just climate policy that needs a fresh start. It is also Swedish energy policy.
i-827e003a1037b267-217	Madam President, I would like I have written down diligently and really tried to listen to Jessica Rosencrantz, but I would still like a little description of what the plan for Sweden and Sweden's transformation actually looks like according to the Moderates. I think it is absolutely crucial that we have a popular change where people feel that there is a place for them and where it can actually look different in different parts of the country. It cannot be up to everyone or just anyone who likes electric cars and nuclear power. Do we have the time for the transition that the Moderates paint? I'm very, very hesitant. I believe that a fair climate change requires a robust toolbox with quite wide scope and that policy is given long-term rules of play and offers more jobs and security in change. But I don't really see what the overall vision for the Moderate transformation is.
i-827e003a1037b267-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Hanna Westerén! Above all, our climate policy means significantly more reduction in emissions than the government's current policy, which is condemned by the Climate Policy Council and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency because it is far from achieving the targets. Let me make it clear, if I have been unclear: I think the base for the conversion is electricity and the forest. I believe that we must build on the two elements in order to succeed in making the industry fossil-free and the cars fossil-free. That's why the Moderates are investing 1 billion in the expansion of charging infrastructure. That's why the Moderates invest far more than the government in the Industrial Cluster and also in the capture and storage of carbon dioxide. That is why we want to enable companies that want to make climate-smart investments to actually expand rather than have to wait for permit processes that take ten years. That is why we need a policy in which the forest can be used, so that we can build houses made of wood, make clothes made of wood fibres and drive on biofuels. However, Hanna Westerén is welcome to explain how the government intends to reverse developments.
i-827e003a1037b267-223	Madam President, I would like The government and the Social Democrats are thinking that we should reverse the trend by pushing down emissions and changing Sweden. We're talking about the fleet and the infrastructure in general. We are talking about a series of measures, not least aimed at industry in the climate and industrial environment. The industrial life becomes particularly interesting in the vision that Jessica Rosencrantz paints because the Moderates provide more funds than will actually be used during the time the reform is in progress. So it feels like you're shooting over the target there. Finally, if the Moderates now have this vision for Sweden and are so eager to push down the emissions, which is absolutely excellent – who is it when you hook your arm with? Well, then you hook arms with the Swedish Democrats, which I know doesn't have a plan for the climate and possibly don't even believe in the climate threat as such. What is the plan for Sweden?
i-3UpyEyZVw7zZyn2JK65sBz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Hanna Westerén! I believe that the Social Democrats need to take responsibility for the party in their own government that has been given responsibility for these issues. If anyone is a threat to climate change right now, it is the Green Party, which therefore does not want us to use the forest and does not want us to use all fossil-free energy sources to change. Yes, the tempo has to increase; it is well proven that the money in the Industrial Clue is not even spent. This is also the response I get when I talk to companies around Sweden: We would like to produce steel without coal, but this requires energy supplies in this country. So the pace must increase, and it will not do so during a government that dismantles electricity generation and says no to forestry. Then we will fail.
i-827e003a1037b267-228	Madam President, I would like I'd like to look out into the world. We are all aware that we are affected by climate change here in Sweden – it has emerged not least from the IPCC report – but that, unfortunately, those who are most affected in this crisis, as in other crises, are those who are already the worst. It is the world's poor and the world's oppressed and persecuted that will also suffer most from the ravages of the climate crisis. We have said from the Center Party that we want Swedish aid to be maintained at the same level as today, but also strongly focused on three areas, including climate change and adaptation. It is a question of supporting those who are at risk of having their livelihood wiped out and those who are at risk of being driven by climate change. It is also about us believing that we can contribute both with Swedish resources and with Swedish know-how when we hook arms with Swedish business to ensure that the green transition does not stop in the Western world and that the world's currently poor do not have to take the detour through coal and oil when they are lifted out of poverty. The Moderates want to cut the aid budget by a third. How does it go with what we need to do to show Swedish leadership?
i-827e003a1037b267-231	Madam President, I would like In the Moderates we are very proud that we have invested more in climate aid and international climate investments than the government that the Center Party has supported does. I am therefore very proud that we are giving priority to global efforts for the climate, which this government does not do. With regard to aid policy, as with other policy areas, it is reasonable to make demands on content. There are very few other areas where we earmark percentages for what to go to which areas of expenditure. We should have an active aid policy both to combat poverty and to combat climate change, but it does not have to be expressed in numerical targets but in focus on measures that have an impact. There I can guarantee Magnus Ek that we will spend more money on climate aid and international climate investments than the government that the Center Party supports does.
i-827e003a1037b267-233	Madam President, I would like That we have had the 1% target depends on exactly this, i.e. that we should not have a political race to the bottom and not be a little too tagged to borrow money for investments in Sweden. I'm sure they're right, because there are things that need to be strengthened– but as a Liberal I also know that there are a number of things that I would rather remove from the state budget than what we put in solidarity to support the world's poor, to build a green transition and to promote democracy and the fight against poverty in other parts of the world. When it comes to climate aid, there is also an extremely under-utilised potential to switch up every Swedish aid crown with investments from the business community in green transitions. Already today we have projects for electrification in Africa, where we switch up with a factor of ten so that a Swedish aid crown will be ten SEK invested. I still have to ask how things work out. We are now coming out of a global pandemic, and we know that hundreds of millions of people are at risk of being thrown back into poverty while at the same time having to increase Swedish climate aid – no matter what level we are talking about. How does this make sense?
i-827e003a1037b267-236	Madam President, I would like Is Magnus Ek sure that 1% is appropriate? Should it be 2%, or should it be 3%? Are there other areas that Magnus Ek wants to see this type of percentages for? I agree that we need aid, and since this is also a climate debate, I think it is incredibly important to emphasise which alternative in Swedish policy is making efforts to help the outside world change. It is not the government that Magnus Ek supports. Nor is it through the government that Magnus Ek supports that we will achieve the greatest global climate benefit. Although there are only a few months left before the UN climate summit, I think it is unclear to most people in this House what this government is really going to do, except for the most obvious things that everyone agrees on – that more should set higher targets. Where is the drive of this government to get more countries to put prices on emissions? Where is the drive from this government to operate in the international arena? We will stand up for increased climate aid, but we will also stand up for rules at global level that will allow China, India and other countries to assume their responsibilities in global climate action.
i-827e003a1037b267-240	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with an important correction to what Jessica Rosencrantz has just said, namely that the moderate-led government spent more money on climate aid than the current one. Actually, that's not true. What the moderate-led government did was buy cheap, uncertain emission credits in developing countries to credit for reducing emissions here. It was aid to us, not to them. However, I would like to talk about subsidies, because government subsidies are usually something that Moderates do not like – except when it comes to cars and aircraft. Then there does not seem to be much to be done with the subsidies. We know that aviation is currently subsidised with billions of dollars in the form of reductions in taxes on fuel, VAT and so on. Now we also know that our airports are subsidised because they cannot be properly run around. The Moderates want to continue subsidising Bromma airport. They don't want to put it down. Swedavia says it can't be done without subsidies. How much more subsidies will Bromma airport get from the Moderates?
i-827e003a1037b267-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the questions. I think Jens Holm is confusing the cards in terms of climate aid and climate investment, but I will not dwell on that. The question of subsidies seems to me to be a strange one. We believe that people will continue to fly in the future, but they will fly green. That is why we are opposed, for example, to the type of airline tax that is just a tax on the aircraft seat itself but not on fuel. I would like to hear about the government's plans to change the regulations that prevent aviation fuel from being taxed today. I and the Moderates have been involved in calling on this government to develop a reduction obligation for aviation that allows us to involve more and more biofuels in order to reduce aviation emissions. We are investing in our budget for research and development for electric flights, because we are going to switch the aircraft and not shut it down. Then airports will also be needed in future Sweden, just as we need rail and other means of transport.
i-827e003a1037b267-246	Madam President, I would like My specific question to Jessica Rosencrantz and the Moderates is: Should airports in Sweden – especially Bromma airport, located in the middle of Stockholm – be subsidised with state resources? Swedavia, which owns and operates our ten major airports, including Bromma airport and Arlanda Airport, has said that they cannot operate Bromma airport without subsidies from the State. Swedavia has so far received approximately SEK 3 billion in subsidies just to maintain Bromma airport and some other airports. The Moderates are struggling with beaks and claws to keep Bromma airport. But we know that all flights can be transferred to Arlanda. We also know that we can replace some with digital meetings and train travel. How much more do the Moderates want to subsidise Bromma Airport with?
i-827e003a1037b267-248	Madam President, I would like What is a subsidy? Is it a subsidy that we pay for rail expansion and railway tracks in Sweden? It is clear that public funds need to be made available to ensure infrastructure in this country. This includes, for example, providing support to regional airports across our country to maintain airport capacity. I don't quite understand Jens Holm's call to close down Bromma. The state investigation concluded that it has absolutely zero climate effects, as it is based on transferring capacity to Arlanda. It would be a little interesting to immerse yourself in it sometime at a later time – now Jens Holm unfortunately has no more lines. For the Moderates, the important thing is not Bromma as a place, but to ensure that it is possible to fly to and from Stockholm and in our country. Then it must also be done on reasonable terms, so that, for example, we do not make traffic impossible the days of the day when it is at risk of being full. But this government cannot promise that Arlanda will be expanded corresponding to Bromma's capacity.
i-827e003a1037b267-251	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, the work to eliminate emissions consists of two parts. Firstly, we must start using more fossil-free energy, and secondly we must have clean energy where it is needed and when it is needed. Liberals welcome the fact that the Moderates have left the Energy Agreement and that they now share the Liberal view that nuclear power is of great importance for the transition. Liberals have been driving the electrification of society, not least in transport. In 2019 the Moderates rejected today's bonus – Malus system and promised their own proposal. I would like to hear when we can expect the Moderates to come forward with this proposal in order to drive the replacement of fossil-powered vehicles.
i-827e003a1037b267-254	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Gellerman for the question. I note that it is very positive that many parties today see the need for nuclear power, to start at that end. The energy agreement was there and then a necessary evil to ensure that it would not get any worse. I also share Helena Gellerman's commitment to electrified transport, with electric roads, charging poles and so on. When it comes to bonuses – Malus Helena Gellerman is absolutely right. We have taken note of many of the criticisms that have come from the National Audit Office, the Institute of Economic Development and many others that this is a very expensive way to reduce emissions. A proposal from us will come in the near future. I can't tell you more than that today.
i-827e003a1037b267-256	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from Jessica Rosencrantz. It is easy to sit down in the gallery and say that something should be removed, but now you have had two years to come up with a new proposal. I am happy to listen and discuss good proposals on how to further drive the development towards a fossil-free vehicle fleet. We have the possibility of replacing every car in Sweden that goes on fossil-free energy before 2040. But it's based on the polluter paying. I wonder if Jessica Rosencrantz could lift the veil a little and tell you what policy the Moderates intend to conduct. It is essential for achieving our climate targets, as emissions from road vehicles account for 90% of emissions in the transport sector.
i-827e003a1037b267-258	Madam President, I would like I want to be very clear that we still have bonuses – malus in our budget until we find a good replacement model. At the same time, however, I think it is important to start a debate on the problem of the aid system. It turned out the last time the money ran out. Now you fill in and on your own, but at the same time you change the rules for what is an environmental car and not and for how high the malus and bonus should be. To raise your eyes a little, I think that car policy deserves a little less twitchiness. Bonus – Malus unfortunately contributes to the twitchiness, in addition to all the debates we have had historically about whether people should buy ethanol or diesel and all that it can be. We need a more predictable car policy. We're spending $1 billion on charging infrastructure. It is also part of ensuring that people dare to buy an electric car and is perhaps even more important than giving bonuses to some who might have been able to afford or give bonuses to charging hybrids that then continue to run on the fossil.
i-827e003a1037b267-261	Madam President, I would like There are those in this Parliament who say that they are more concerned about climate alarmism than about climate change. Moderate Party leader Ulf Kristersson said in an interview with Expressen that he does not believe that there is a certain date when the world must have reduced its emissions, contrary to what the IPCC says in its report. In the Moderates' own parliamentary group there are members who consistently question climate research, who happily go to conferences with like-minded climate-deniers and who are concerned that the climate issue has taken such enormous space in the public debate. There was a time when the Moderates said it's more fun to say yes. Yet you are now fully committed to saying no, no and no to any climate proposals that could reduce emissions here and now. My question to the Moderates and Jessica Rosencrantz is what conclusions you draw from the IPCC report. Are you ready to tighten up the Swedish climate targets and to take the measures that actually reduce emissions here and now and make us stay within the climate limits according to science?
i-827e003a1037b267-264	Madam President, I would like I thank Per Bolund for the questions. I can assure Per Bolund that climate commitment is strong in the Moderates. That is also why, in several measurements, we see increased confidence in our environmental policy when asked about the voters. We're happy about that. We believe that it is a question of focusing on the right things. I'd be happy to discuss goals with Per Bolund. The problem, however, is that today's objectives are not achieved with government policy, far from it. Then it can be discussed how serious it is to start a new debate about tightening up goals that you are not even close to achieving. I am happy to discuss it, but I do not think it is this tightening up that will solve the problems if we continue to do the wrong things. If we continue to dismantle electricity production, say to Sweden's 300 000 private forest owners that they are not allowed to use their forest, do not expand the charging infrastructure and do not make the necessary efforts, sharpened goals do not matter.
i-827e003a1037b267-266	Madam President, I would like A good idea is to see reality as it actually is. The reality is that we are increasing Swedish electricity production and that we are using the Swedish forest very much to make climate benefits. It is also important to see the reality as it is when listening to research. We had hoped that the Moderates were a party that actually listened seriously to the research. I had three questions at the beginning of the debate that I am going to ask Jessica Rosencrantz again because we do not get an answer to them. The IPCC is clear that we need to raise our ambitions and do more. We now have faster reductions in emissions each year. We are moving in the right direction, and we are in the process of a change. Are you prepared to agree to tighten the climate target to zero emissions by 2035? Are you prepared, together with us, to set the 2025 deadline for the sale of the last new fossil-powered car in our country? And are you prepared to legislate with us so that no fossil fuels can be extracted in Sweden? These are yes or no questions. Can we get an answer?
i-827e003a1037b267-271	Madam President and Mr Per Bolund! As I said, I am happy to discuss all these issues. But Per Bolund starts at the wrong end. We are talking about banning new cars that run on fossil fuels in 2025. Okay, then what are they going to do when the government dismantles the power and doesn't build out the charging poles? Should we drive electric cars on Polish coal power in the future? No, then the Moderates won't do it. However, if there is a plan forward to ensure that there are alternatives for people, we are prepared to discuss all possible measures, because we want in the same direction. We want transport and industry to be fossil-free, but your policy is about starting at the wrong end. One must first create the alternatives for people. It is ridiculous that you are still standing in this House claiming that we have electricity surpluses. Should we discuss people's electricity needs as that it is some kind of full-year basis we relate to? Should we ignore the fact that companies cannot establish themselves because there is no electricity? We have to start at the right end. Then I am willing to discuss all kinds of measures.
i-827e003a1037b267-275	Madam President, I would like As I made in my first speech, it is the world's energy policy that is fundamental to reducing emissions. Here Sweden has already done the job by expanding hydropower, building nuclear power, building efficient combined heat and power plants and establishing district heating networks. In this way we have been able to phase out fossil energy. Social Democratically administered environmental party politics has recently been about trying to break this apart by making us dependent on uncertain weather-dependent force that is poorly adapted to our Swedish electricity infrastructure. This results in increased electricity prices, increased network charges and increased dependence on fossil electricity imports. The problems of power in our networks are even greater, and this leads to companies finding it difficult to establish themselves in many places. Future governments must work to reverse this so that Sweden can once again become an example of energy policy for our environment. Madam President, I would like In addition to the measures that Sweden can contribute to reducing emissions, exports must be mentioned. The more goods and services we can sell from Sweden and the more food we can produce in Sweden, the more we contribute to reducing emissions in our surrounding world. However, this could help to counter national targets. If you grow more crops and produce more food in Sweden, it can of course lead to increased emissions, but that is also why we need better climate targets. The national focus on the Swedish climate targets is not sound. We could read this earlier this week, when leading Swedish climate economists led by John Hassler made this very clear. We have the EU's emissions trading system, which we in the Swedish Democrats support. It will be interesting to follow the work.
i-827e003a1037b267-280	Madam President, I would like Martin Kinnunen highlights addiction. I would like to highlight another dependency, because, as I see it, the Swedish Democrats stand for continued dependence on oil. Given what Martin Kinnunen just preferred about the importance of Sweden becoming self-sufficient and standing stronger, I think in the same terms that we have a unique opportunity with the climate transition to build Swedish resilience to climate change. We can build a strength in not being so dependent on others. We can achieve robust systems to protect the climate. We can phase out fossil fuels and reduce our dependence on oil and thus our dependence on others. We are becoming very vulnerable, and we could increase our livelihoods and even change. Sweden may well be an example, but the Swedish democrats' path towards this example seems to be very different if you compare with the path of, for example, the party I represent. Why do the Swedish democrats miss the opportunity for livelihood in this area?
i-827e003a1037b267-283	Madam President, I would like I do not quite understand the starting point of the question. The whole world is dependent on fossil energy today. It's about our clothes, our machines and our houses. It's still that everything would fall apart if there wasn't fossil material in it – unfortunately. But we have great opportunities to get out of this. And that is where we are going, for example, with electrification of the automotive sector. We believe that in the Swedish Democrats, and we will get there. People demand electric drive, and people will also buy electric drive. But not everything will go overnight. However, we cannot get rid of oil dependence by, for example, finding that we will satisfy everything with biofuels and then somehow believe that we will be able to increase production in Sweden by 1 000 percent. It's about air traffic, road sector and boat traffic. Not everything can be supplied with biofuels. But electric drive is coming, and it's coming.
i-827e003a1037b267-286	Madam President, I would like The climate challenge is not something someone has made up. The availability of biofuels and alternative solutions is not something that anyone has invented. They are available to all of us, and we have the opportunity to give them political priority. My question was about the dependence on oil that I feel the Swedish Democrats want Sweden to continue with. I think it sounds completely untenable that we should continue to reward petrol and diesel instead of supporting the Swedish population for a sustainable transition, where we rely much more on renewable fuels and on electricity.
i-827e003a1037b267-288	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are behind a sustainable transition. A sustainable transformation of the road transport sector takes place via electric power and not through unsustainably produced fuels. For the most part, it has been palm oil from which they have been produced, and this is likely to continue to be the case. We'll see what the statistics look like in the future. These fuels are worse than fossil diesel! I would much rather take oil from Norway to fuel than use palm oil, which is much worse. Just ask any scientist when they measure the indirect effects and see what this means for biodiversity and wildlife. It has terrible effects on our nature.
i-827e003a1037b267-290	Madam President, I would like This is not the first time I have debated with Mr Kinnunen on environmental and climate issues, and we will have to do so for a long time to come. There are a few questions that come up after I have listened to Martin Kinnunen today. The first is: When do Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats really see that we should have made the transition? Today, Sweden's democrats have criticised the transition in the automotive sector, and they have criticised what concerns clothing and renewable energy. It has soon been said that most things apart from nuclear power have been criticised. My simple question is therefore: When do the Swedish Democrats see this being implemented? You have so much difficulty with many of the alternatives that allow us to actually start replacing fossil fuels. The second question concerns the same thing that I asked Jessica Rosencrantz about earlier, namely when the Moderates want to cut Swedish aid down to 0.7%, almost a third. But the Swedish Democrats should always be the worst and want to cut it by half – at a time when we have a global pandemic and a greater need than ever to show leadership and solidarity in the climate transition. How does Mrs Kinnunen view this, and how does that work out?
i-827e003a1037b267-295	Madam President, I would like We're politicians here. I know that it is usually a bad idea for politicians to guess at technological developments or to try to push forward technology development with subsidies condemned by all fiscal experts and by the climate economists. They're bad and ineffective. They run poorly, create injustice and simply cost considerably more than they taste. We will certainly see an electrification of the fleet of vehicles. But exactly what year it would be without subsidies is hard to say. It probably wouldn't be much different, but it might be a few years later. However, there is no decisive effect. Technology development and pricing of emissions are a key factor in reducing emissions in the world. If this does not happen, emissions will not be reduced. We already know that China is unlikely to reduce emissions in the next ten years. The aim must be that they should at least start pricing emissions higher than they do today.
i-827e003a1037b267-298	Madam President, I would like I hope that everyone who listens to Mrs Kinnunen hears exactly what I hear. We can't guess when we're going to be able to make the transition. In plain language, this means that we should not set targets for when we are going to do so. Subsidies are bad, they say. They certainly can be. I also know that as a liberal. But it's a tool in the toolbox that we need to replace. I have also heard the honourable Member criticise the environmental taxes that the government has. There are some of them that can be criticised. I'm sure they can be sharpened. But here we have heard the Swedish Democrats in principle on a board of us all the tools that politics has to send forward to steer the climate transition, show the direction and set the framework for when we are going to do this. It is abdicating political responsibility for the climate issue. In addition, we want to reduce one of the most important tools we have to build a greener, more peaceful and more sustainable world, namely Swedish aid, by half. This, Madam President, is not serious in a climate debate.
i-827e003a1037b267-301	Madam President, I would like Indeed, the Swedish democrats want to reduce aid significantly. It is oversized and ineffective today. The Swedish Democrats are convinced that we can help more people at a significantly lower cost and thus fund important reforms here in Sweden, such as strengthening pensions, health care, school and law enforcement. This, too, is a very important policy. The honourable Member mentions very important things that will happen in the future, but the most important means of governance that we have at our disposal and that we are forced to be part of is the EU's emissions trading system, which is very good. It is the main and most effective tool, and the Swedish Democrats fully support it. On the other hand, we can certainly have different views on what levels and dates to set limits on. However, this is an effective tool for reducing emissions.
i-827e003a1037b267-303	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the UN Panel on Climate Change. Most of us are convinced that the conclusions that come out are frightening. Never in modern times has there been as much greenhouse gases in the atmosphere as today. I listen carefully to Martin Kinnunen from the Swedish Democrats, and I have also listened carefully to many other Swedish democrats. I rarely hear this level of readiness to act politically on the basis of the scientific reports that have come. This is the latest report from the IPCC. In view of this, I have to ask Martin Kinnunen: are we in a climate crisis? Are we the people who have put us in this crisis? Do we therefore need to act politically? What should we do, and when should the problem be solved?
i-827e003a1037b267-306	Madam President, I would like I, too, have taken note of the IPCC report. My first reaction was that these are things we already know. We know that man causes warming. We know we're moving towards a warmer climate. I also like to draw hope from the report. For example, it can be observed that high emission scenarios are not considered to be as likely anymore. It is rather the average emission scenarios that are most likely. This means that the step to get below two degrees is considerably shorter than if one believes in the scenarios that tend to control the scare articles in the media. In this way, there is hope to get. It's not too late. It's never gonna be too late. We will always be able to make a difference. Even if a dark picture is painted, there is still a lot of hope to get, I think.
i-827e003a1037b267-308	Madam President, I would like If I interpret Martin Kinnunen a little benevolently, it is still we people who have created the climate crisis, and we must act politically. However, I did not hear a single new concrete proposal as to what we should do more than hope. The hope for me is that we will act together and politically, come up with concrete proposals and, of course, put them into practice. There, the Swedish Democrats are unfortunately renons on a proposal other than that they protect the EU's emissions trading system. Where are the concrete investments in what is changing? Where are the concrete tax changes and regulations, bans on fossil fuels and cars with emissions and so on? Where are these proposals? The policy that the Swedish Democrats represent is to just roll everything over to individual people to deal with the increase inslides, floods and extreme weather that will need to be dealt with if we do not act now. It's not solidarity.
i-827e003a1037b267-311	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I lined up a number of important proposals supported by the Swedish Democrats. As I said, the most important thing we can do is to contribute to research and development, for example by having better opportunities to build nuclear power worldwide. We can contribute to investment in projects in other countries. The single most important thing is, above all, that we are pressing internationally to put a price on carbon dioxide. If that does not happen, I do not think that we will come close to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. That is absolutely the single most important thing, and this is what the government and politicians should talk about all the time in contact with the major emitters. If we cannot price CO2 on a global scale, we will not succeed, no matter what the EU or Sweden does.
i-827e003a1037b267-313	Madam President, I would like The IPCC report was an alarm clock for most but obviously not for the Swedish Democrats. They wanted to reduce SMHI's government funding a few years ago because they informed about the consequences of climate change. Apparently, it was wrong. The only party leader who could not be induced to comment on the IPCC alarm report was Jimmie Åkesson. We have talked here about having a map that matches reality. It is clear, however, that the map of the Swedish Democrats is somewhere from the time of World War II. The price trend in the energy sector has not been accompanied by what is profitable and what is not profitable. We now know that our planet is on fire. During the summer, people's homes, livelihoods, hopes and dreams have turned into ashes. Whole ecosystems have been destroyed. The Swedish Democrats are a party that does not stand up for the Swedish climate targets that exist today. They do not support the EU's climate goals. They want to sink them. They vote against all climate proposals, both in here and in Brussels. The IPCC is serious. It's serious now. I would like to ask: how much fever should the world have before the Swedish Democrats think it is time to act at all?
i-827e003a1037b267-318	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it is important to emphasise that the world is acting. You can see this when you read the IPCC report and look at the different scenarios. The IPCC is not very clear about what one believes about the probability of the different scenarios. It is clear, however, that the promises made and the actual policies pursued by the countries are important. I think it is important for everyone to know about it, because when you listen to Bolund it sounds like everything is completely screwed within a few years if you don't drive this country to the bottom. This is what it's all about. We are not helping to reduce emissions in the world if we are helping to move emissions to another place. If it becomes too expensive to produce goods and services in Sweden and Europe, emissions will take place elsewhere. Therefore, the single most important thing that we can contribute is to try to influence other countries to put a price on carbon dioxide. That's the solution to the problem.
i-827e003a1037b267-320	Madam President, I would like It doesn't get any clearer than this. The Swedish Democrats' answer is always to wait and see and hope that something will work out elsewhere. The Green Party's answer is that we are doing what is necessary to reduce emissions here and now, and they are reducing faster and faster every year. Every proposal that actually leads to reduced emissions here in Sweden comes from the Green Party, and every proposal is voted against by the Swedish Democrats. You want to stop, stall and delay. This is how it is in Swedish politics. It is clear that Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats do not care about research. You don't care about reading and reading the IPCC report and seriously understand what it contains and how high the alarm signal is. Then the question is: Do the Swedish Democrats think it is better for Sweden to go last into the future and to be last with the new technologies? Why is it so important to you that we should use old technology and not the new and best? I am thinking, for example, of electric cars and renewable electricity.
i-827e003a1037b267-322	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be in the lead, and I think we are there. We all have opportunities. Look at the potential of our energy system, what the Green Party wants to break! There is a lot that our surrounding world can take after of us in Sweden. We also have a great deal of agreement among the parties here on the importance of reducing emissions. Then it is very true that the Swedish Democrats are not as interested in throwing flosskeler around or in focusing on just how we calculate emissions nationally. We want to focus on how we can contribute to reducing emissions in our environment. Yes, then we can focus on producing more goods here in Sweden. Can Volvo manufacture more trucks? Then emissions may increase a little here in Sweden, but they will decrease in our environment because the trucks are not produced in countries that are supplied with fossil energy, for example. If we can produce more food in Sweden, so that we may be able to supply our entire population with Swedish food, we will not have to import food from countries where emissions are higher.
i-827e003a1037b267-326	Madam President, I would like I spoke in my first speech about the importance of Sweden showing leadership in climate action, both internationally, by pushing for an ambitious pace of transition, and through Swedish aid. There we can contribute with resources but also with Swedish know-how that allows people to be lifted out of poverty without taking the detour over coal and oil. It is the definition of sustainable growth, both ecologically and socially. But we must also take a responsibility to reduce our own emissions and lead the way. We do this by turning the base industry into climate neutrality. We do that by changing the transports. We do this by using the Swedish agriculture and forestry as the engine in a green transition. And we do this by having the tools and knowledge to make sustainable decisions in the local community, including through climate labelling and green deductions. However, Madam President, one thing is quite clear from the IPCC report: we will be affected by climate change even if we achieve our goals. It is already clear, for example to those of us who work in agriculture and forestry, that drier summers, floods and pest infestations are a reality that is largely linked to climate change. We have a great challenge in adapting Sweden to climate change, which we must take on more forcefully. That is why we in the Center Party want to review, among other things, how we can secure resources for climate adaptation work. The national efforts that are taking place today are a drop in the sea of what we need at local level to ensure climate change adaptation. We need to clarify the division of responsibilities between the local and national levels and ensure that there is an authority that has a coordinating role and that we have a national responsibility for social infrastructure and food security. To this we should investigate a fee on public water to finance these climate adaptation measures. And we need to strengthen the resources for SMHI's forecasting work, so that we can better predict the effects of climate change in Sweden. Madam President, I would like No country in the world is spared the climate threat, nor is Sweden. And we need to equip ourselves for that.
i-827e003a1037b267-333	Madam President, I would like There was a lot in what Magnus Ek just mentioned that I and the Left Party agree with. Let's talk about things that I'm not sure we agree with as much. I am genuinely interested in knowing whether the Center Party believes that there is a link between economic policy and emissions. I spoke in my speech about the importance of having a fair climate policy. If we reduce taxes much for rich people, we know that they will increase their consumption. There'll be another SUV, and it'll be a Thailand trip to. There will be increased emissions, quite simply. We know that high-income earners have very much higher emissions than low-income earners. Therefore, I would like to ask Magnus Ek if the Center Party believes that it is a good idea to have economic equalization in society, so that we take a little from the rich and give to the less well-off, also from a climate perspective.
i-827e003a1037b267-335	Madam President, I would like Then we got climate justice a little stronger in this debate. I very much welcome that, Jens Holm. I think it's good that people who are in a worse situation get better, whether we talk Sweden or whether we talk globally. I've been thinking about how maybe we should cater for it in the world. It is about ensuring that the fight against poverty does not stop in this and, indeed, also about seeing the injustice of people remaining poor. They must be able to be lifted out of poverty while meeting the resource challenge and, at the same time, meeting the challenge of the climate. This is partly linked. Of course, there is a connection between the climate, the economy and economic policy – it goes without saying that this is the case. But I do not think the solution is that we should have a straight redistribution policy. It's simply because I don't think the best way to lift people to a better tomorrow is to just cut the money from someone else and then redistribute it. We know that this is about more economic freedom, which also benefits those who are the most deprived. That needs to be the goal of the policy, while at the same time solving the resource issues and climate challenges. This is about coping with peak stuff, for example. We are beginning to see signs that we are approaching it, but we have not come all the way. But that's where we're going.
i-827e003a1037b267-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer. I am thinking of when the Center Party ruled the bourgeois government. Then taxes were reduced by about SEK 150 billion. Unfortunately, the tax-merger policy has continued with the S-MP government. I think it is very much due to pressure from the Centre Party and the Liberals. For example, the tax, the military tax, was removed from the richest in Sweden a few years ago. What happens if the super rich get more money in their wallet? It would be interesting if Magnus Ek could honestly reflect on it from a climate perspective. Is it not true that there is yet another shopping trip to London, that you buy another big SUV and that you consume more in short, so that emissions increase even more? Isn't the consumption of the rich a problem, and shouldn't we do something about it?
i-827e003a1037b267-341	Madam President, I would like I think Jens Holm remembers the figures for how much the alliance government lowered the tax by better than I – I must admit that. But I'll say that I'm happy for every penny, and I'm glad that policy has continued. It is a question of transferring both more economic freedom and more economic power to the individual citizens. It is about getting the economy going by allowing every penny to be out spinning in society rather than bringing them into the state. Basically, I think that is the right thing to do. Then we can move on to the basic issue. We both know that neither Thailand's trip nor an SUV benefit the climate. That is why we are putting forward policies on how to reduce such emissions, for example. It is not least a question of changing the transport sector. We have not only been involved in pushing through that we should have more tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship, but it is also about tightening up bonuses – the Malus system, so that it actually more effectively pushes away an SUV and rather leads to an investment in a more sustainable environmental car. This is an example of how the Center Party has worked for us to get better conditions for jobs and entrepreneurship but also for more speed in the climate transition, and I am proud of that.
i-827e003a1037b267-344	Madam President, I would like It has now been four years since we agreed in fairly broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament on the climate target that applies today: that we should have zero net emissions in 2045. But the new IPCC report is crystal clear that more is needed. It takes more, quite simply, for us to meet our climate commitment. Our conclusions from the Green Party are: If we are to cope with the climate crisis, it must cost more to release. We need to support what is simply sustainable and leads to less emissions. Now, despite the fact that we agreed in the January agreement on a tax exchange of 15 billion, the Center Party is against the green tax shift, which would give people more money in their wallets but make sure that whoever actually destroys the climate pays. The clearest message before the autumn budget from the Center Party has, of course, been that it does not accept any increased taxes. Therefore, my question remains: Is the Center Party prepared to make the necessary decisions for Sweden to become fossil-free?
i-827e003a1037b267-348	Madam President, I would like I'm very pleased that we tightened the climate targets. I was like a youth federation and pushed for the Center Party to enter that negotiation with a clear ambition to sharpen the goal so that it became more ambitious than 2045. I am very pleased that we also reached at least 2045. I would like us to work further, both to sharpen the objectives and, above all, to achieve them. As we have mentioned earlier in this debate, that is what we fall into. I belong to a generation that, unfortunately, has become used to our failure to meet our environmental objectives in this country. I do not think that we are prepared to sit through a future in which we do not meet the climate targets either and must take the full blow in a world that fails to stop global warming. When it comes to tax cuts, it is absolutely right that we do not want to increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship; rather, we want to see it reduced. But it is not that we are not in favour of a green tax shift. After all, we have been negotiating this with you in the years that have been. I myself have been in negotiations on how we take in environmental taxes so that we can reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. I do not think this will be a problem in the future either.
i-827e003a1037b267-351	Madam President, I would like To begin with, I want to correct Magnus Ek. In fact, when it comes to climate change targets, each time we have exceeded the targets that Sweden has set itself in terms of reducing emissions. In spite of the fact that the accident ravens have been screaming that it would be impossible and expensive and that it would hit the economy and jobs, we have been able to show that it is, on the contrary, easier, faster and is better for Sweden to do so. We are now reaching the interim target we have set for transport by 2030 – to reduce emissions by 70%. We are therefore step by step in the process of exceeding the climate targets, and then we have the opportunity to tighten them up further. Let's talk about green tax exchange. The signals Magnus Ek gives here today are not the signals we have received from the Center Party in other contexts, but it is worth discussing further. I would like to repeat my questions. When it comes to tightening the climate targets to 2035, I see Magnus Ek saying yes. Are you also prepared, together with us, to set 2025 as the date for the sale of the last new fossil-powered car? Are you prepared to legislate with us so that no fossil fuels can actually be extracted in Sweden?
i-827e003a1037b267-355	Madam President, I would like Someone may correct me if I am wrong, but, as I said, I am absolutely sure that we are in favour of green tax exchange. What is important is that we do not increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and increase the overall tax burden. This is not news – it has been this whole term of office when we have been negotiating together. It is good that you also repeat the other questions; I have answered the first. As far as cars are concerned, the phase-out investigation has told me that this will be extremely difficult to get through with regard to EU law and EU rules. I do not know if the most effective thing is to aim for something that will not necessarily be implemented, rather than looking at how we get more climate-friendly cars to roll on Swedish roads and how we are even more quickly meeting the target we have set to reduce emissions from the entire transport sector. It smells like signal politics. I'll have to agree with that. I am not entirely alien to the fact that we should at some point phase out the fossil cars, but I think the important thing is to make sure that we get started with that transformation. Finally, not much fossil energy is extracted in Sweden today, I know. I do not think that is the big problem we are facing either. But we have, for example, negotiated a ban on uranium mining. Everything is on the table, but I think there are more effective measures, if we are to be honest.
i-827e003a1037b267-358	Madam President, I would like Why is it important to talk about justice in a debate on reducing emissions? Well, because exactly the same way we get upset if in preschool it is a small group of children who take all the food from the other children– we don't think that's okay– we should be upset that a small click consumes a very large part of the common emission space we have. It is just as the Minister for the Environment said earlier: we have about 40 gigaton left to let out, and we have about ten years. Then it's not okay that a tenth in the world accounts for about 45% of the world's emissions. It is also for this reason that the concept of climate justice is enshrined in the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. It is a key element that climate policy must be fair. It is also effective, I say, to combine justice with reduced emissions, for the simple reason that if I know that the neighbour is also making an effort in his daily life to reduce his emissions, it will be easier for me to do so. Let's just do it together. Unfortunately, however, we do not see a policy of increased justice in Sweden. Both the former bourgeois government and the current S-MP government have consistently reduced taxes and increased gaps in our society. I believe that this makes the necessary climate change difficult. We in the Left Party believe, for example, that if we receive progressive and increased air taxes and revenues go towards expanding the railways, we combine justice with reduced emissions. If we do not build new motorways, but invest the money in public transport, we will also have reduced emissions and a fairer society. So what we need is simply a red policy for a green transition, and that is what the Left Party stands for.
i-827e003a1037b267-364	Madam President, I would like It is important to be able to distinguish between words and actions. It is easy to say the right things and to make fiery speeches in Parliament or elsewhere, but when environmental policy is to be implemented, it is necessary not only to say the right things but also to give priority to this and to put pressure behind the words. Unfortunately, when environmental policy is to be weighed against other issues in the negotiating room, we notice that the Left Party is no longer prioritising environmental issues; then the environment is not at the top of the Left Party's to-do list. After all, we worked with the Left Party on the budget for four years last term of office. When the Left Party itself presented the 80 reforms it had achieved throughout that term of office, it was not a single one that was about the climate. It was free glasses for children and health care for the elderly, which is good reforms. However, it is not enough to say the right things in this House or to respond responsibly to surveys, but it is also necessary to stand up for the policy in the negotiating room. Are you in the Left Party prepared to do so and to give priority to environmental issues in negotiations as well?
i-827e003a1037b267-366	Madam President, I would like As Per Bolund knows, the climate issue is one of the four system requirements that we impose on the government in this budget, so we really prioritise it. The Minister for the Environment's history is completely incorrect. It starts, Madam President, to sound a bit like a rusty record from the Green Party – that the Left Party did not want to give priority to the environment in the budget negotiations. We fought for the night trains and got through bets on them. We fought for public transport and got through investments in it. We fought for solar energy and got through investments in it. We saved the biogas cars in bonuses – the Malus system. We wanted a higher malus, and now we see what happens when we unfortunately did not get through a higher malus but at least support for the biogas cars in bonuses – the malus system. But the deal was that the Green Party would communicate the environment and we would communicate welfare. That's what happened. But, Per Bolund, ask the environmental movement! Which party estimated the overall environmental movement as the best environmental party for this election? Answer that honestly!
i-827e003a1037b267-369	Madam President, I would like I'd be happy to answer honestly. It is easy to respond to surveys and sound radical, but it is in the negotiating room, when weighing different policy areas against each other, that it is tested if you really stand up for the words you speak in, for example, surveys. There's a different picture than that of Jens Holm. It is interesting to note that there seems to be some frustration about environmental policy in the Left Party as well. We hear of uprisings among Members and members in favour of a better climate policy. What Jens Holm says in this debate is not matched by what the Left Party leadership and party leaders say in various speeches around the country. My question remains. We would need all the support we can get in the fight to actually reduce emissions and do what is necessary. We need the support of the Left Party. Are you prepared not only to say the right things but also to prioritise them when the policy is to be implemented?
i-827e003a1037b267-372	Madam President, I would like The party that the Nature Conservation Association, the World Wildlife Fund and the entire European environmental movement ranked at its best in Sweden was the Left Party. The Left Party is giving priority to climate and environmental issues, and the Minister for the Environment will see that. I think it is very good that the Minister for the Environment is focusing on action. That's what's important – not trotting investigations at each other. I have counted the investigations from this government, and that is some kind of record in the environmental field. I've never seen so many environmental and climate investigations that the S-MP government is now stacking on top of each other. We in the Left Party very much welcome the fact that the Green Party is now actively pursuing, for example, a ban on selling new fossil cars. But the Green Party has been in charge for seven years. Why have you not put forward this concrete proposal? You're only investigating – unfortunately.
i-827e003a1037b267-375	Madam President, I would like Sweden's major competitive advantage in the transition is the forest and technology. We have to use more of everything. In Norway, Nalle is often quoted, or Ole Ole, as his name is there, when people are faced with election situations. When Ole Ole is asked if he wants milk or honey for the bread, he answers: ..................................................... That is precisely the answer that we must stick to in the transition. We need everything that can help us. The IPCC points out four different scenarios to limit heating to 1.5 degrees and thus hopefully avoid the effects of climate change having unmanageable consequences. All four scenarios require a very strong expansion of nuclear power. Already in those scenarios where emissions are reduced fastest, a doubling of nuclear power is needed by 2050. Up to 2045, electricity consumption will increase by at least 90 per cent. This corresponds to the annual production of 14 nuclear reactors or more than four times the total wind power we have in Sweden today. In addition to a strong nuclear power expansion, large-scale expansion of solar, wind and bioenergy as well as extensive carbon storage are needed. To achieve everything else is more challenging than the increase in nuclear power, although it also presents a major challenge. The forest is a fantastic asset that is both carbon sink and coal storage and can also substitute carbon-intensive products. Of course, the forest should be cultivated, as it then provides the most climate benefit. Here the government must realise that it has both research and a majority in parliament against it. The forest provides absolutely the most climate benefit when used. The Green Party, headed by the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, must realise that their ideology here does not bear fruit. Here the pragmatism must trump higher.
i-827e003a1037b267-382	Madam President, I would like As I said in my first speech, the seven starting points of the Liberals are the concrete policies that we are right to the objective. Climate change in the transport sector will be based on stronger emission requirements for both vehicles and ships and economic instruments to accelerate the transition. All modes of transport must be changed. With 90% of emissions coming from road vehicles, it is on those we focus, and we base it on the polluter paying. The charging infrastructure must be expanded at a high pace so that it does not become an obstacle to people making their individual choice of vehicles. Air travel is important for Sweden. In terms of emissions, we focus on reduction obligations, electric flights and alternative fuels to today's kerosene. Industry also needs to switch to fossil-free energy. This also applies to agriculture and forestry. Agriculture and forestry are also an enabler in this transition by using their products for energy production. In order to achieve the net zero target, CO2 capture must start long before the last fossil emissions occur. Everything indicates that in Sweden we need to at least double the use of electricity over the next 20 years. This requires a plan for how the electricity system can quickly be expanded in order to become more robust. Nuclear energy plays an important role here. The government has no plan for this. In fact, you don't even have a plan to solve the acute problems in southern Sweden. Liberals are alone in a climate policy that allows net zero emissions in 2045, meets the electricity needs of the future and at the same time protects diversity, natural values and our watercourses. Nuclear power is the key to a sustainable climate policy.
i-827e003a1037b267-391	Madam President, I would like Pressing snooze when the alarm bell rings in the morning is incredibly tempting; we all know that. If you just get to sleep ten more minutes, I think it'll be fine. Even more attractive it seems to be to completely turn off and go back to sleep. I was hoping the IPCC report would be a wake-up call that couldn't be ignored. This has been the case for the Green Party. Unfortunately, however, this debate has clearly shown that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have instead pulled the blanket over their heads and fallen asleep. This debate has been an important message to all those who have listened and who take the climate threat seriously that it deserves. Many parties in the Swedish Parliament continue to oppose the climate policy that the IPCC says is required. My conclusion, therefore, is this: there is only one party that prioritises the climate in all the negotiating rooms. There is only one party that wants to put a stop date for fossil fuels in 2030. And there is only one environmental party in Swedish politics.
