i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-4	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I view protection in today's legislation for children aged 15-17 when it comes to sexual offences and whether I intend to take any action in relation to my assessment. She has also asked whether I intend to work towards introducing a so-called Romeo and Julia legislation which limits the age difference between the adult and the child in terms of sexual relations. She has also asked whether I intend to take any action in view of the shortcomings identified in the law, which allow a suspect to receive a minor penalty by stating that he thought the child was older. Finally, she has asked me whether I intend to review the penalties for sexual offences against children committed by using the child for the purchase of sexual acts, which are today dependent on the perpetrator's statement as to how old he thought the child was or whether the child had begun to develop its puberty. Combating sexual crimes against children is an urgent and high priority for the government. The government has taken several measures to improve the chances of combating this type of crime and is taking new initiatives on an ongoing basis. Marléne Lund Kopparklint claims that the legislation is not based on the child's actual age but on the age the perpetrator believed or felt that the child had when the crime was committed. Before the summer I answered three parliamentary questions by Marléne Lund Kopparklint on this subject and explained that her statement in this part was not correct. D a July 1, 2018, at the government's initiative, the regulation on the perpetrator's negligence in relation to the child's age was tightened. A change of law reduced the limit for what should be considered to be negligent. Among other things, the aim was to get away from this particular problem that too much attention was paid to the child's body development. The reduced limit of negligence has also made it more difficult for offenders to blame for not knowing the child's age. The new provision on negligence means that the responsibilities of the offender are determined on the basis of a general assessment of negligence. Inattentiveness may involve the perpetrator suspecting that the child is below the age relevant to the crime in question but still carrying out the act. However, it is not a requirement, but criminal liability also includes the case that the offender does not suspect that the child is below the age limit, but should have suspected it. Marléne Lund Kopparklint is thus wrong when she claims that the perpetrator's claims about what he or she believed is crucial to criminal liability. As I come back to, the government will follow up on the new negligent regulation by allowing an investigation to evaluate how it is applied in practice. In recent years, the government has also taken a number of other criminal measures against sexual offences against children. For example, the scale of penalties has been tightened for, among other things, gross rape of children, contact to meet a child for sexual purposes, so-called grooming, and exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts. In addition, the criminal liability for the grooming crime has been extended, among other things, to take place at an earlier stage. Furthermore, the limitation period for rape offences committed against children has been abolished. We have also commissioned the 2020 sex crime investigation to consider further measures in the direction of strengthening and clarifying sexual violations. The Sex Crime Investigation submitted its report on 1 June this year. The investigation proposes, among other things, that the scale of penalties for a number of sexual offences be tightened. Among other things, it is proposed that the minimum penalty for rape and rape of children should be raised from two years in prison to three years in prison, that the minimum penalty for child abuse by purchasing a sexual act should be raised from the minimum prison sentence to six months in prison, and that the minimum penalty for the purchase of sexual service should be increased from a fine to a prison sentence. The report is now being consulted. Thus, there is already strong criminal law protection against sexual abuse for children aged 15 and over. However, the protection of children aged 15 to 17 is not as strong as that of children under the age of 15. The government will therefore set up an investigation to review, among other things, the criminal law protection of children aged 15 to 18, particularly in relation to sex purchases. As I have already mentioned, the investigation will also evaluate how the criminal liability for negligence regarding age in sexual abuse works. The investigation is part of the Government's package of measures to intensify the work against men's violence against women, which we presented this summer.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-13	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I was terrified to turn 15, because then I knew that my perpetrator would use my age against me. I was also terrified of the fact of getting the question in police questioning: But why did you say yes? My friends in the class were worried about nasty school lunch. I was worried about the type of abuse I would be subjected to after school. These are words from a young girl named Saga with whom I have contact. Saga lives with terrible memories that she tries to handle every day. In 2020, the number of reported sexual offences in Sweden increased to 24,100. During 2020, the largest number of rapes against children was reported so far – 16 per cent more than in 2019. According to the Foundation General Barnhuset's latest report, one in four children is exposed to sexual crimes. So 25 percent of all children are sexually abused. So if we have a school class of 20 children, Madam President, we can expect 5 of these children to be victims of sexual crimes. Madam President, I would like I would like this terrible fact to sink into all of us. Sexual offences cause serious health damage. Rape is the trauma that usually leads to post-traumatic stress disorder and has the strongest connection to suicide, suicidal thoughts and self-harm. The consequences are a changed life with varying degrees of pain, fatigue and mental illness. And we should know that if you have been exposed to sexual crimes in childhood, that increases the risk of suicide twelve times. Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Government of Johansson says that combating sexual offences against children is a very pressing issue and that several measures have been taken to improve the possibilities of combating this type of crime and to take new initiatives on an ongoing basis. It's good to do it. But I'm questioning whether that's enough. The measures taken seem ineffective. In 2014, the General Children's House Foundation estimated that 20 per cent of all children will be exposed, and that figure has been constantly increasing. And in the latest survey in August 2020, the figure is up to 25%. Instead of four small children in a preschool class, they talk about five small children who are victims of sexual crimes. These are difficult issues to address. These are hard pictures you get. Young children, even babies, children who have not even started school, children who have started school and teenage children of all ages, fall victim to the disgusting fact that an adult takes the right to abuse them. Madam President, I would like I would say that teenage children aged 15 to 17 are particularly vulnerable, because there is a lack of legal protection here. And it is tragic that this does not seem to be taken even more seriously than the Government's response. The Government says in its reply that I am saying things that are not right and that I am wrong in substance. It's a little funny, I think, that in the next paragraph he tells me that he's commissioning the investigation to review exactly what he points out in my interpellation. If I'm wrong, this wouldn't have to be further investigated. I do not think that it is attractive for a minister to make such claims – especially as he has in his backpack the extensive investigation from the Western police region to which I will return.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-26	Madam President, I would like First of all, of course, I share Marléne Lund Kopparklint's commitment to this issue. I think I have said many times that the government has two priority criminal policy topics that we highlight in particular: one is gang crime, and the other is men's violence against women. I therefore react when Marléne Lund Kopparklint says that we do not take this seriously or that things we do are completely ineffective. Actually, that's not true. I think it is enough to go through all that we have done during our term of office to see that this government has done much more than any other government precisely to combat sexual violence – and not least sexual violence against children. The Consent Act, which the moderate-led government was unable to enforce, we pushed through 2018. It is extremely important to set a new norm for what is sexuality and what is abuse. After the 2018 reform, it became clear that what is not voluntary is an abuse. Consent law also led to a sharp increase in the number of rape charges. The number of prosecutions increased by 80 per cent and the number of convictions increased by 75 per cent. In addition, we tightened the punishment for the gross rapes, including gross rape of children. We tightened the penalty for grooming, and we tightened the penalty for buying sex of children. We abolished the limitation period for the serious sexual abuse of children in order for an offender to always know that the law can reach you, no matter how far into the future we are talking about. That is why we abolished the limitation period for child abuse. None of this was done by the former government, the alliance government. None of it has been implemented by the Moderates, but all of this has been carried out by the government I represent. The statement that we do not take this seriously or that we do not care about the issues, I therefore react very strongly to it. We will proceed with this. There are now investigative proposals to raise the penalties both for rape against adults and for rape against children. There are proposals to tighten the penalty for buying sex, and there are proposals to further tighten the penalty for buying sex of children. As we have announced in our 40-point programme on men's violence against women, we are also reviewing the protection of criminal law precisely in the case of children aged 15 to 18, including sex purchases. We are also evaluating the carelessness reform that we carried out a few years ago precisely in relation to the age of children. Marléne Lund Kopparklint's claim that it is enough for the perpetrator to claim that he thought that the child was over 15 years old for the perpetrator to go free is not true. We changed those rules in 2018. Now it's enough that the offender should have realized that the child was under 15 years of age. That is what I objected to in my interpellation response, and that is what I want to correct. We've changed those rules. Then there is a reason to evaluate and see how far we came with that change, but it is not that one can only say this today that I thought the child was over 15 years and then go free. In fact, this is no longer the case, but we have already done so. So the premise in that part is wrong in the interpellation. We changed this already three years ago. We have again done a lot in our years – more, I say, than any other government in this area – and we will now continue to move forward and further strengthen legislation precisely in relation to sexual offences against children.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-34	Madam President, I would like Statistics speak clearly: Sexual crimes against children have increased. I therefore believe that the Government cannot stand by and say that it has done enough or that it is doing very good things. We can see that the trend is going in a negative direction. I would like to return to the Western Police Region, where some thirty men were suspected of using a minor girl for a sexual act and where only one man was charged with the crime of child abuse through the purchase of sexual acts. The other defendants claimed that they believed the girl was older and were charged with buying adult sexual service, which normally leads to financial penalties. This case, and others, clearly point to the shortcomings of the legislation. The issues raised by the Government in its response are good, but that is not enough. It's too little and too late. The fact is that Sweden, now that we are committed to making the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law, cannot go on and exempt children from our legislation depending on how old they are. They're all children under 18 years of age. The Convention says that everyone is a child until the day they turn 18, but today the law makes a distinction between children under the age of 15 and children over the age of 15 who are exposed to economic sexual exploitation. This difference means that some children do not have the right to the same legal protection as other children. I would say that the legislation is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that every person under the age of 18 is a child and that every child has the right to be protected against exploitation in prostitution and pornography. Today's legislation does not put the child first, as the words of the perpetrator are weighted and not the actual age of the child. The age of sexual authority makes children an open target for adults who want to exploit them for sexual purposes. The scale of penalties shall be based on the actual age of the child in the case of sexual offences. Madam President, I would like According to the law, a 60-year-old man can have sex with a 15-year-old girl as long as she wants and is not in an addiction position with the man. Then you can ask how dependency is to be defined. A 15-year-old girl or guy hasn't grown clearly physically, and they haven't developed fully mentally either. If you look at a 15-year-old, you can in most cases see that it is a child. Children are usually brought up to have respect for and listen to adults, and they do not have their own finances. This would mean that children always end up in an dependency position with an older person – especially if they offer money that the child normally does not have access to. It is easy to argue that we must close these gaps in the law and instead ensure that it is further strengthened, in addition to the things mentioned by the Government. I've heard testimony... and I've also read one of them... from young girls who've been helped by the non-profit organization... not your whore. I have allowed these words to sink in, Madam President, and I see these vulnerable children in front of me. Then it stabs into my heart, and I feel a tremendous urge to act to bring about further changes than those listed by the Government. I act and try to take responsibility for the fact that together we will be able to live in a Sweden where the bodies of women and girls are not for sale and where paedophiles should not have loopholes in the law.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-41	Madam President, I would like That's exactly where we have the same entrance. With regard to what Marléne Lund Kopparklint concluded with, namely how important it is to ensure that women and children are not for sale, I can only say that we pushed through the Sex Purchase Act. We did that 20 years ago. I myself was involved in designing it once, because I worked in the Government Office at the time, too. It is a groundbreaking piece of legislation that many countries have now adopted. The Moderates voted against that legislation at that time. You didn't want the Sex Purchase Act. Marléne Lund Kopparklint also mentions the Convention on the Rights of the Child and that it is now a law. Yes, that's right, and I actually made suggestions about it too. In fact, it was this government that pushed for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become law. As I recall, the Moderates criticized it at that time. Here, then, it is probably the case that if any governments and any political force have pushed these issues harder than anyone else, it is actually the government I represent. We have implemented the consent law, tightened penalties for aggravated rape, tightened penalties for grooming and tightened penalties for child sex purchases. We have abolished the limitation period for serious sexual offences against children so that an offender can never be safe and know that the law can reach you, no matter how far into the future we are talking about. So we also go on to make proposals to increase the penalty for child rape, to tighten the penalty for buying sex and to further tighten the penalty for child sex purchases. It is clear that it is sex purchase of children if, as Marléne Lund Kopparklint said in his example, you offer a 15-year-old payment for sex. This is punishable – so it is only with the legislation that we have today. Madam President, I would like We will continue to push forward reforms in this area to ensure that these crimes are combated. Let me say that it is not just about the criminal law we have, which we have gradually developed and continue to expand, but also about the resources available to police and prosecutors. Throughout our reign, we have highlighted in particular the importance of prioritising these crimes to police and prosecutors, and there are specific reporting requirements from law enforcement authorities. In addition, a huge amount of money is still being spent on police and prosecutors, so that they have the resources they need to fight these crimes. Of course, you always have to do more. I can assure Marléne Kopparklint that the government that I represent will continue to push forward both the criminal law and the resources needed to improve the fight against this type of crime.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-50	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government said what he said at the end of his speech just now, because my dream is that the Government will tell MP Marléne Lund Kopparklint that he and the Government will do everything in their power to protect children further. But it's also up to evidence. Madam President, I would like I get very involved when I talk about these issues. It is partly based on frustration, which is that I do not quite understand why politicians or the government do not want to do everything in their power to protect children from something as hideous as sexual crime. There are measures that the government could take, but they do not. So my question is: Why? I have still not received an answer to that, and I still have no answer as to why Minister Morgan Johansson is standing in this Chamber and thinks that a good job is being done. At the end he said it needs to be done even more. In the speech by the Government, I would really like to hear answers to what more to do. I would also like the Government to remember a few names. Saga Brothers, survivor and board member of Not your whore. Gabriella Kärnekull Wolfe, survivor and founder of Not your whore as well as project manager for Child 10. Ida Östensson on Child 10. Malin Säflund and Malin Roux Johansson, Secretary General of RealStars. These children's rights fighters have written an article in Dagens Juridik that I would like to tell the Government about reading. These child rights fighters – like myself, Madam President – want answers on how the Government will work to make 25% of children 0%.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-54	Madam President, I would like There is, once again, always more to do in this area. I am happy to acknowledge what Marléne Lund Kopparklint said – we will continue to work on extending both criminal law and the resources we need to have in place to police and prosecutors to ensure that this is done. But sometimes I object to the criticism that comes not least from moderate quarters. Had the Moderates been allowed to rule, we would have had neither a sex purchase law nor a consent law. That was the case – there was never any legislation on this either. These were two hugely important reforms. Marléne Lund Kopparklint asked what steps we go forward with next. I've listed some of them. We want to tighten the penalties for rape of children. There is a report on this, and we will proceed with it. We want to tighten the penalties for buying sex in general. We want to tighten further the penalties for child sex purchases. That is where we have tightened up the penalties, but we will have to tighten up further. We will also tighten our eyes when it comes to remote abuse. More of the online abuse will be considered rape instead of other crimes. This will also be an important part of a forthcoming reform. I have also announced that we are reviewing criminal law in relation to the protection of children between the ages of 15 and 18. This comes as part of the new review that we are doing within the framework of the programme we have to combat men's violence against women. Here we are also assessing the negligent reform that I was talking about. We will gradually continue to strengthen the fight against these, as Marléne Lund Kopparklint said, hideous crimes. I can assure you that not only Marléne Lund Kopparklint but everyone who listens to this debate will do so.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-60	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me whether I intend to amend the legislation by not allowing the seriousness of the crime to determine the amount of damages in cases where detention is exceeded solely because any penalty rebates have not been obtained. He has also asked me whether I intend to change the enforcement code by removing protection against foreclosure to former victims of crime and, if the answer to that question is yes, what is the reason for the delay with regard to my nearly two-year-old commitment to this. Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I and the government intend to take any measures to prevent similar situations in the future and whether we intend to make amendments to the Compensation Act. Sweden has long been in possession of legislation whereby the State takes financial responsibility for detentions which should not have actually taken place. Legislation provides an important guarantee of legal certainty for individuals. This does not prevent it from being perceived as offensive that someone is being given substantial compensation even though he is still convicted of very serious crime. In the present case, it is no wonder that the compensation is in the eye when compared with the victims' damages. There may therefore be reason to consider how extensive the right to compensation should be. The most important thing for me right now is to strengthen the position of victims and reduce the harm caused by crime. Improving the rules on compensation for victims of crime is a priority for the government in this work. For this reason, an investigation on behalf of the Government has recently reviewed the rules on victims' right to compensation and their possibilities of obtaining such compensation from the offender. Last summer I received the report of the investigation. The investigation presented a series of proposals for amendments to the Compensation Act and the Enforcement Code. The proposals concern, not least, a substantial increase in compensation for victims of crime and an improvement in the possibilities for the seizure of the property of convicted persons. For example, compensation for detainees is something that the proposal provides for more easily to be imposed on victims. The report is now being referred to this autumn. It goes without saying to me that victims of crime should be given priority over criminals, and I hope to be able to return as soon as possible to Parliament on this urgent issue.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As a rule, individual legal cases should only be dealt with when there are specific reasons pointing to serious shortcomings in our legal system. In my interpellation, I refer to the case of a Syrian citizen and his brother who kidnapped a woman in a basement in Malmö. With a knife and a gun, they forced her to undress in front of them and then began to assault her. The torture was brutal. In addition to the rapes, they tied her up and bound her mouth. They took turns beating her with their fists. A while after the first assaults, one of the men was aroused again, and even though the woman pleaded and explained how much pain she had, he carried out another rape. They forced her to remain during the night, and the next day the brothers continued to rape her. They even invited five more guys who were all assaulting her. For almost 24 hours, events went on before the police freed the woman. The Syrian citizen had also previously been responsible for a gross rape. He had broken into an apartment with another man. They had woken a woman, started beating her and grabbed her throat. Then they took turns raping the helpless woman. The man was sentenced, and the penalty was ten years in prison. But when all the government's penalties remained unchanged, only four and a half years remained. However, the man was not satisfied with the judgment but appealed. As a result, the sentence finally landed for two years in prison, when the man suddenly obtained a Syrian passport with the year of birth in 2001 and managed to get even more discounts. The rapist then claimed compensation from the state because, according to the new ruling, he had been in 14 months for too long. In August the news came: The rapist receives SEK 840 000 from the state. The woman was awarded a compensation of one third of the rapist's – a compensation that she must also claim from the multi-criminal person. The rapist's compensation of 840 000 has Morgan Johansson continued to protect foreclosure, even to former victims, so she will never see the smoke of this money from the rapist. This complete indifference to the victims of crime and this millimetre of justice, which is shown to be grossly criminal, offends. The Minister refers once again to an investigation which, in the long term, we hope, will lead to legislative changes. For decades, victims' shelters, lawyers and representatives of the judiciary have asked politicians to review the legislation, in particular the one on the protection of the foreclosure of former victims. It is quite unreasonable and extremely strange that current legislation, which damages public confidence in the justice system, should remain unchanged year after year. As Morgan Johansson has been Minister of Justice for almost two terms of office, I wonder why this legislative work has not begun long before. The problem has been known for a long time, and in an interview with Swedish Radio in spring 2017, the Minister of Justice promised to change this. It is now almost five years ago. Is this an ideological question? Does the government protect the perpetrators more than their victims?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-77	I would like to remind you of Parliament's competence, for the continuation of the debate, in relation to individual matters and decision-making by the authorities.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-78	Madam President, I would like The Swedish legal system in general and the penalties in particular are not in line with the general sense of law. Recurrently, it is revealed how the principle of proportionality shines with its absence, with civic frustration and anger as a result. There are many of us who have loved and have unfortunately suffered crimes. I personally have never heard any of them say that my perpetrator received the punishment he deserved. I think it is proportionate to what I was subjected to. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It just doesn't happen. Instead, we can repeatedly read about how victims speak out and describe how the punishment as such constituted a further abuse. When the verdict falls, even if it leads to it, many victims feel that the justice system and hence, by extension, the politicians have failed them. In the long run, this system risks creating anger as well as anxiety, but also, if it wants to harm itself, a desire from victims or their loved ones to take matters into their own hands. Man has a deep - seated idea of what is right and what is wrong. There may be nuances between us. But if man had not had the concept of justice, we would never have been able to stick together as a collective. Then our development had been limited many thousands of years ago. This very deep-rooted concept of justice is often tested in relation to our judicial system. This was the case recently when the Chancellor of Justice granted a convicted group rapist a compensation of SEK 840 000 from the Swedish state. In other words, the multi-criminal group rapist with foreign background earned nearly $1 million on rape. This, at the same time as one of his former victims spoke out and described how she received only $1,000 in damages after the now wealthy man raped, abused and threatened her. Injustice is further reinforced by the fact that the rapist has not been expelled, despite the judgment, and that the damages that he has now received cannot be awarded to pay damages to his former victim. I repeat the latter, Madam President: even now that he has hundreds of thousands in his account, he is not being forced to pay for his victims financially. In other words, time and again he has ruined the lives of innocent victims, while the state has compensated him financially and left him in the country. The case is extremely but in no way alone in highlighting how the principle of proportionality does not sufficiently characterise our legal system. My question is therefore: does Morgan Johansson think this is reasonable? Does he believe that the principle of proportionality is being respected today?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-85	I would remind you that neither the decisions of the authorities in individual matters nor the circumstances or documents of individuals should be discussed in this House, according to the rules we have and according to the current competence of the Parliament.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-86	Madam President, I would like The government claims to be the first feminist government. The fact of the matter is that a rapist and another five men rape a woman for 24 hours and that, because his age is lowered during the legal process itself, the perpetrator receives almost SEK 1 million in damages, even though he is still convicted of aggravated rape. It would be understandable to be awarded damages if they had been detained and acquitted. In this case, however, the sentence itself remains, gross rape, and only the age of the perpetrator has been reduced. The victim receives only a fraction of the compensation awarded to the offender. In addition, she is allowed to pursue the process of obtaining her damages. The perpetrator, on the other hand, gets the money paid directly from the state without having to do anything to claim it. Not only that, the offender's amount of damages is protected for foreclosure to former victims, in this case another woman who was raped by the same offender. Madam President, I would like It is almost five years since the Minister of Justice first made a commitment that there would be a change in the enforcement code and the Criminal Damage Act. In spring 2017, the Minister of Justice in Ekot said the same thing, as did an interpellation debate with Mikael Strandman in 2019. Despite this, and after almost two terms of office with a so-called feminist government, it is concluded that this offender who has been convicted of aggravated rape on two occasions receives almost SEK 1 million on a silver platter from the state. For me, it is a very clear signal that the government is sending out, that the perpetrator is given priority over the victim. Pending completion of the investigation, the government could have implemented a simple regulation in the enforcement code by adding a clause governing the right of victims to receive compensation from convicted offenders before it is paid to the offender. The secondary school law was changed relatively quickly, and it is a much more complicated law than the enforcement code. Does the Minister of Justice really think it reasonable that, after almost two terms of office, we have still not seen a change in the compensation of the perpetrators and victims of crime?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-92	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by commenting on a few things that have been mentioned in the debate. Firstly, it is questionable whether we have tightened the penalties. We have done so vigorously. We now have the highest penalties, I say, in modern times after the penalties that we carried out in the last parliamentary term. Last year, Swedish courts sentenced a total of over 11,500 prison years. Then the life sentence is not included, because there you do not know how long the prison sentences will be. But 11,500 prison years were an increase of 40 percent in three years. So yes, the penalties have been tightened, and yes, they are also applied by the courts. They judge more people and judge them harder than they did before we sharpened the penalty. Secondly, on the issue of damages, many figures are being put forward in the debate. However, the flat-rate compensation for rape is SEK 100 000, nothing else. If the perpetrator does not have the means, you turn to the Victims Agency and get the money out that way. So it is not that you are completely dependent on the perpetrator having money, but you can turn to the Victims' Agency to cover up. That's what it looks like. I am fully aware, and fully agree, that the effects of some of the legislation, as it stands, may appear offensive in individual cases. That is why we need to change the regulatory framework. First of all, I defend the principle that if you have been wrongly detained, you should have the right to compensation from the State. I defend that principle; it is an important principle of the rule of law. I think that even Mikael Strandberg, Tobias Andersson and Katja Nyberg, should you be wrongly detained, would think that you would have a claim for damages on the state. This is therefore a reasonable order. In my opinion, however, we need to change the regulatory framework on at least a few points so that it becomes more reasonable and fairer. The first thing we should do is to make sure that the type of damages that can be awarded to a suspect's benefit will be foreclosed. This means that if a suspected person receives this kind of compensation after, for example, having been detained, which is quite common, this compensation should be possible to cover debts to former victims of crime. This is a fairly common situation, and it can be about quite a lot of money. Indemnities for one month's detention amount to about $3,000, and each following month to $2,000, so it quickly makes money out of it. My opinion is that if the suspect is awarded this kind of compensation and the suspect is also in debt to former victims of crime, this money should be spent so that the state can simply take back some or all of the damages. That is not possible today, and that is exactly why I set up a review of this legislation. The review is now complete, and the investigation has made its proposal. It is now out for a referral, and the period of referral expires on 29 October. When the proposal is ready, I expect to go to Parliament as soon as possible so that new legislation can enter into force on 1 July 2022.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-102	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answers. It's good that it's coming 2022, but I still think it's weird that it should take so long. There's no shortage of resources at the Justice Department. There are 433 officials under the minister, most of them highly educated. If I had been Minister of Justice, I would have thrown myself at such irregularities in the laws that would damage confidence in the entire judiciary and have begun this work long before. The debate that this is crazy has been going on since the beginning of the 21st century. It is good that this is now being changed in the enforcement code and regulations that if there are debts to former victims, they are not protected for foreclosure. In doing so, crime victims are given priority over criminals, and that is a good signal. I have another question for the Minister. If the reason a person has been in custody for too long is only that the person has not received sufficient discounts but that the decision itself regarding the crime has not changed, there is no logic in that the damages should be higher because it is a serious crime. As things stand today, two parameters govern damages. One is the time suit. You get paid more for the last few months you sit than you get for the first ones; it's an exponential curve of damages. The second parameter is the severity of the crime. But herein there's only one logic if the perpetrator would be completely innocently convicted, because then it's clear that you should have paid for the stigma it is to have sat this time without having anything to do with the crime. However, if the decision on the offence itself has not been changed, there is no logic for the damages to be higher because you have not received the penalty rebates that you consider to be entitled to.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-110	Madam President, I would like I, too, thank the Minister for the answers, especially because he acknowledged on several points that we were right from the beginning and that, therefore, after a few years of delay, there are now initiatives from the Social Democrats. Let me take note of a couple of points made by Morgan Johansson in his initial reply to my and Mikael Strandman's interpellation. He said, among other things, that Sweden has for a long time had legislation that means that the state takes financial responsibility for detentions that should not have taken place. 中 Similar reasoning has been put forward here. Madam President, I would like I think I and Morgan Johansson have different opinions about which detentions should or should not have taken place. Detaining an offender who is subsequently convicted of serious crime, including rape, appears to be a proper and reasonable detention. It is, of course, completely unreasonable that this criminal should then be given financial compensation for the same. Difference would be if higher instance freed the individual. Then, of course, the state has a responsibility as Morgan Johansson describes. This particular problem was described by Mikael Strandman in a good way. In addition, Morgan Johansson replied that in the present case it is no wonder that the compensation stick to the eye when compared with the victim's damages. There may therefore be reason to consider how extensive the right to compensation should be. ..................................................... It's nice that Morgan Johansson now inside the last verse as responsible minister breathes criticism of the situation. Wishingly, however, he had already fixed it, something he has had the opportunity to do for more than seven years. He also said in his answer: a priority for crime victims over criminals is self-evident to me. ..................................................... Unfortunately, Madam President, it does not look like that today. On the contrary, civil society initiatives are being taken to cover where policies and the judiciary are failing. In the aftermath of the media reporting in, among others, Riks, to which I and my colleagues referred, of the case that prompted today's interpellation, for example, a petition was made against the decision to compensate the rapist where over 200 000 names were collected. Swishin collections have given hundreds of thousands of dollars to the victim. Similar fundraising for victims is now carried out on a regular basis as a consequence of the current regime. Madam President, I would like That's not how it should work. We should, of course, have a judicial system in place where those affected by crime receive reasonable compensation from the state. This is an ambition that Morgan Johansson seems to support in the debate but which he has failed to establish in reality. Instead, it is now up to civil society to step in where politics and Morgan Johansson are failing. How does Morgan Johansson see that civil society and individuals can try to cover up for his and the government's shortcomings?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-119	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answers. What is so confusing about this is that the offender does not have to do anything to obtain his or her compensation while the victim himself has to claim his or her compensation. First, you have to fight with the bailiff to demand the offender for the damages you have been awarded. If it doesn't work, you can go to your insurance company. If this is not possible, you can contact the Victims' Agency and submit a written application in order to be able to collect your rightful damages. This system is very time-consuming, and there is a danger that the offender will escape his or her liability and that the victim will again be violated. In addition, it is precisely contrary to what general legal awareness considers to be a good system for the payment of damages. One proposal put forward by the Swedish Democrats to avoid this happening and that, for example, vulnerable women themselves are forced to recover their damages from the offender is to introduce a state compensation guarantee. This would mean that the State would go in and pay the damages the court has imposed on the victim. Then the state takes over the responsibility and actively collects the blame from the offender. This ensures that the offender never escapes his liability. I think the Minister of Justice said that this is the proposal the government will push forward and launch next year. Is that right?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-125	Madam President, I would like No, it was about the right of enforcement, i.e. the possibility of imposing damages if the offender has debts to other victims. It is very important, and that is what Mikael Strandman brings up in his interpellation. It is this change that we are about to make. We decided on a review of the regulatory framework and we received a report this spring that we are now working on. As I said, it is out for consultation until 29 October, but after that, my plan is that we can go to Parliament with the change. This means that if a suspect has been in custody for a couple of months and perhaps received 50 000 in damages for the two months – 30 000 for the first month and 20 000 for the second month – the state can take the money and simply impose it on them if they have compensation for other victims. I think it is important that we make this change. The second change that we are going to make is to significantly increase compensation to victims. It is also in the proposals from the investigation that I set up and asked to review the rules. I think that, overall, support for victims of crime and also, as I said, the compensation given to them must be evaluated. This was the mission to the investigation. Now we have a report which proposes a substantial increase in compensation to victims, almost doubling. And yesterday I was able to tell you that in the budget we are putting additional funds into the Victims' Agency to cover the proposal. We had already spent SEK 80 million, and now we set off another SEK 20 million to the Crime Victims Agency. In total, it will be SEK 100 million to cover that part of the proposal. This means a sharp increase in compensation to victims, almost doubling. I would say that will be the most important reform that we will be able to implement for victims in more than 20 years. My plan is therefore to prepare this further in the autumn and be able to go to Parliament with a proposal in the spring with entry into force on 1 July 2022. It is clear that you can always have discussions and say, Why have you not done this before? Why are you doing it now? During my time as Minister of Justice, I have submitted over 300 bills to the Riksdag, which everyone has gone through. We've tightened up some sixty sentences. We have greatly expanded the criminalised area in a wide range of areas. I would say that there is no government that has made more reforms in the area of criminal policy than this government has. Then you have to take things at their pace and make sure that you do things gradually, but this is an issue that I have long wanted to do something about and where I am very happy that we can now declare that we are carrying out a reform. Once again, we are taking this forward. This means the possibility to impose damages that suspected offenders have received so that Kronofogden can withdraw this money as well as greatly increased compensation to crime victims.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-133	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Unlike the constitutions, which should be very difficult to change, the underlying laws are more of a living document that needs to be updated with the development of society. That is why I find the delay very surprising, as well as the fact that it has not started long before when we have seen for a long time what needs there are and how offensive the legislation is to general legal awareness. I didn't get an answer to my question. The Minister says we're going to increase the compensation to victims. It's great, but the other damages, which criminals get when they've been in custody and incarcerated for too long, are, as I described, two parameters. One parameter, the timing, I'm not saying anything about, but I'm going to focus on the other parameter that is controlled by how serious the crime is. It makes sense if you're completely innocent. If you have not been involved, it is obvious that you should be paid more for being detained for a group rape than if you have been accused of stealing a car and being convicted of it and then released. That's perfectly reasonable. However, if it is the case that detention has been too long simply because you have not received the discounts you would have had but you have still committed the crime and this has not changed in the ruling, there is no logic in that the severity of the crime should determine the level of damages. I hope that the inquiry referred to by the Minister will also address this point. It would be a great pity if we did not look at this parameter too, because it is the one that is offensive in the case we have mentioned today.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-137	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answers. It gets tiring sometimes when you debate with Morgan Johansson and point out obvious shortcomings in his and the government's actions or lack of the same and Morgan Johansson's recurring answer is that he is the greatest, best and most beautiful, that there are no errors, that it is the best government that has existed in 20 years, that he has made the biggest reforms for victims in manna memory, that there has never ever been a statesman in the world who has been bigger, stronger and better than himself. That's how it sounds, but out in the country, with those who need to take part of the Sweden that Morgan Johansson and his colleagues have contributed to creating, one is probably not quite as convinced of Morgan Johansson's excellence, as he describes it here in Parliament. It is probably a little more sceptical about the current system, where it is possible to get caught up in millionaires by group rape, for example. I think it's a little more skeptical that over 50 innocent people have been hit by gang wars in the last ten years. It is perhaps a little more sceptical that people choose to refrain from moving in certain places or at certain times because they feel insecure as a result of shortcomings in Morgan Johansson's and the government's actions. I think it would be great if Morgan Johansson sometimes just said, "This time I wasn't the greatest, the best and the most beautiful." In fact, I could have dealt with this a little earlier. After all, we seem to agree with each other when we stand here debating. The difference is that we have actively worked and that Morgan Johansson has chosen to wait and continue bragging.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-141	Madam President, I would like We have a saying in Skåne, that we do not brag but just say as it is. I'm not bragging. However, I am happy to try to account for what we have done over the years, and I am, after all, quite proud of it. We have invested more money in the judiciary than any other government. We have tightened the penalties, especially in relation to the gang criminals, more than any other government. We have made sure to reform sexual crime legislation and strengthen the fight against men's violence against women more than perhaps any other government has done. Much more remains to be done. After all, it is my role to account for what we are actually doing. Then I realize that when you work in a field such as crime, punishment and crime, you will never be finished. Then we must ensure that reforms are continued and pursued step by step. So, with regard to what I have now stated about the policy of crime victims and the policy of substantially increasing compensation to victims, we are talking about doubling and about the possibility of better enforcing the assets and damages of the perpetrators. I will also be very proud of these reforms once we get them through. Do not say that we have done nothing, that we are waiting or that we do not care about these matters! It's just the opposite. Again, I can assure both the interpellants and anyone listening to this debate that we in the government will continue to pursue these issues with vigour and carry out reforms gradually in order to overcome the misconceptions, errors and problems that may exist in the various legislations. I will continue to present exactly what we are doing in a debate, because I think it needs to be heard. Now you can look forward to a new bill at Parliament's table that corrects a couple of these parts and for greatly increased compensation to victims.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-145	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me, in the light of the shootings that have taken place, what measures I and the government intend to take so that more innocent people will not be affected. Let me begin by emphasising the seriousness of innocent citizens suffering from shootings between criminals. The fact that innocent people are harmed is unacceptable. The review takes a very serious view of the serious crime and has therefore taken a number of measures and presented the 34-point programme against gang crime, which is the most extensive in Sweden's history. The ongoing investment in the Police Authority is the biggest ever. The government has significantly increased the agency's funding, started two new police training courses, initiated a new and faster admission process to the training and worked to increase the attractiveness of the police profession. The Government's goal is for Sweden to have 10,000 more police employees in 2024 than we had at the beginning of 2016. By mid-year, the number of police employees had increased by 7,000, and according to the Police Authority it is possible to reach all the way up to 2024. The government has also ensured that law enforcement authorities have been given more and better tools, and further action is under way. The government has introduced a new secret means of coercion: secret data reading. It allows law enforcement authorities to access more information than before, including encrypted information. It has also set up a number of important investigations. One study aims to extend the possibilities of using secret coercive measures and another examines whether data storage can be extended to include new communication apps. The government will also have the issue of preventive coercive measures to prevent serious crimes investigated. The police authorities believe that the use of secret means of coercion in the intelligence phase, i.e. outside a pre-trial investigation, can be crucial to deterring new shootings and saving lives. Furthermore, the government has set aside funds to spread the strategy behind the working method Stop shooting to more locations in Sweden. It is a strategy that has shown promising results in terms of reducing the number of shootings in Malmö. The work continues with full force in the field of criminal law as well. In August of this year, we received the report of the Gängbrot tsanskrivningen with a large number of criminal law proposals against crime in criminal networks. The report is now being consulted. It is also crucial that crimes in the gang environment are cleared up. In the spring, the investigation of a strengthened judicial process and an increased prosecution left several proposals against the culture of silence, including legislative proposals for improved support and protection of witnesses. This report is also being consulted. Further penalties for both possession and smuggling of arms and explosives entered into force on 1 December 2020. The purpose of the legislative changes is to increase the number of offences, especially those committed in criminal settings, to result in more severe penalties. Recently, the government decided on a bill with proposals to improve the police's ability to search for weapons and other dangerous objects for preventive purposes. The proposals are proposed to enter into force on 1 December 2021. It has also taken important steps towards a strengthened crime prevention work involving the whole of society, and the development of that work continues. An investigation has looked at how municipalities can get a statutory responsibility to work crime prevention, and this report is now also on the table. The work to crack gang crime is long-term and must be carried out on a broad front. We continue our efforts to reduce crime and increase security throughout Sweden.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-155	Madam President, I would like One of Morgan Johansson's most winged statements as Minister of Justice comes from when he commented that the shootings reached record levels in 2017 by saying that there is little risk of innocent people being affected. Regardless of party political dividing lines, everyone probably hoped that the Minister of Justice was right about it, but with the facts in hand over the development since then we know how wrong Morgan Johansson was. Since 2018, in other words, approximately since Morgan Johansson's statement, according to the figures SVT communicated this week 1,272 shootings have been reported, 168 people have died and 450 people have been injured. These are terrible figures that should give the vast majority an indication of how Morgan Johansson is doing at work. Madam President, I would like Now perhaps Morgan Johansson would like to add a statement that it was in fact only innocent that he thought had a small risk of being affected, that he was otherwise right and that these figures therefore do not matter. However, that is not exactly how it works. It goes without saying that the more shootings take place, the more likely it is that sooner or later an innocent victim will also suffer the same. The ambition should reasonably be to push down the number of shootings and thereby, in addition, bring down the number of innocent victims. Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson's statement that there is a small risk that innocent people are affected can be equated with the prophecy, or rather the cynical and reality-refused wishful thinking that he expressed when he said, as Minister of Health, almost 20 years ago: I find it incomprehensible that Morgan Johansson should not be held to account for any more of his obviously inadequate analyses of the future. As I see it, Madam President, there are three potential explanations for Morgan Johansson's inadequate analysis. My question in this first speech is, therefore, which of the three explanations Morgan Johansson thinks best explains his erroneous analysis.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-162	Madam President, I would like That was four minutes of personal attack, and it was perhaps nothing else to wait for Tobias Andersson. It usually sounds something like that. Our view is clear, namely that gang crime as such is a scourge in society. It is one of our biggest social problems. It is not something that just arose yesterday, last year or a few years ago, but it has its roots far back, at least 15 to 20 or perhaps 25 years back. I grew up in northwestern Skåne, just outside Helsingborg. I know very well that when Hells Angels and Bandidos once established themselves there in the early 1990s, 1993, gang conflicts began almost immediately – also with firearms, hand grenades and other things. Then it grew on itself gradually, because you didn't take this as you should have done in the 90's. Eventually, more and more gangs were formed. I'm saying that what we're doing right now should have been done back in the '90s, because then you'd suffocate this in the bud. They didn't, and then we're gonna have to do it now. It will take a little longer, cost a little more money and be a little more difficult, but I am absolutely convinced that we will make it. That is why, when we took office in 2014, we changed criminal policy. We got into a situation where the Alliance government had cut down on police training by 90% in two years to finance its tax cuts. That was the policy of that government. My task was then to turn that around and change politics. Since then, we have more than doubled police training. We have started two new police training courses, one in Malmö and one in Borås, and now have a record number who are trained as a police officer. We've tightened the penalties very strongly. Last year, Swedish courts sentenced a total of 11,500 prison years. This is an increase of 40% over the last three years. All the punitive measures that we carried out in the last parliamentary term have had an impact. Swedish courts judge both more and harder than they did before. We now have more people in custody than ever before. We have almost 7,000 in custody and in prison. There's 1,000 more in just a couple of years. People who used to run around with guns in town are now in the cage. We have also made sure to set up more cameras, especially in the particularly vulnerable areas, in order to increase the resolution of crime. Yesterday, I and the Minister for Home Affairs were able to present another major investment in the judiciary: SEK 2 1⁄2 billion more going to the law enforcement authorities, the Prison Service and the courts. In the area of law enforcement, we have therefore redesigned the policy. We now have more employees in the judiciary than ever before, we have better tools than ever before, we have more resources than ever before, there are more cameras set up than ever before and we continue to gradually strengthen the law enforcement authorities. But in order to really get to grips with this, we also need to invest in prevention and to break the new recruits for the criminal gangs. Yesterday we also proposed increased resources for municipalities so that they can invest more in school and fritis and social services. We are also proposing a special LVU subsidy in order to be able to intervene earlier on against children and young people who are in the process of becoming delinquency. Madam President, I would like That is the weakness of the Swedish democrats. They're happy to talk about the justice system. But when it comes to preventive measures, about school, social services, labour market opportunities and other things, it is empty from the Swedish Democrats. And as soon as they get the chance, they cut back on that kind of activity, just as right-wing parties usually do. My question to Tobias Andersson is therefore: Do you not see how important it is to prevent the crimes?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-175	Madam President, I would like A brief answer is: yes. However, I think it is important that we put our justice system and law enforcement in relation to crime in society. Morgan Johansson's analysis is flawed when he describes that more than ever are in custody, that there have been more prison years, that there are tougher and longer sentences and everything. Because it's not a good thing in itself. Of course it's good that people are punished. But even better measure of his success as Minister of Justice would be if crime were reduced and, by extension, fewer prison years were sentenced precisely because we had less crime in society. You can't just take one and say, "Look how good we are! We have a much more criminal society, and as a consequence, we also have more people in prison. If you lift it out, it's not a success in itself. Madam President, I would like Not all innocent Swedes will get hurt, which is what the interpellation is about. The vast majority of us will not be subjected to the ongoing gang violence or any other crime. However, the kind of apologizing and relativisation, which often comes from Morgan Johansson's side concerning gang crime, which during his time as Minister of Justice has been allowed to grow, is worrying. It is not just about the number of innocent people who are actually being shot to death. That would be an extremely sad yardstick. It is also about all the effects that gang crime has on society: that people fear certain places, that people from purely rational instincts become suspicious of others, that economic activity is forced down because of the insecurity of the area, that whole districts are occupied by gangs and so on. If we measure the number of innocent victims of all the consequences of gang violence, the number is high. Madam President, I would like I dare to say that there are areas in Sweden today where a majority of residents are in some way restricted or affected by the current gang crime. Of course, not many of them get shot. That is precisely why we should not be limited by the description of who and how many innocent people are victims of gang crime. However, it can be said that a number of innocent people have been affected since Morgan Johansson's comment that the risk of innocent gang shootings is small. Over 50 innocent people have died in the last ten years as a consequence of gang violence. Most attention is likely paid to the murder of the 12-year-old girl who walked with her dog. But others, too, have been injured and killed by shootings as well as shell blasts. The weekend week 28 happened again what must not happen, which led me to put this interpellation. Two small children suffered and were injured in a shooting in Flemingsberg. A six - year - old boy was out playing with his five - year - old sister when they were both shot. In the light of what I have said in this speech, I would like to ask Morgan Johansson whether he still believes that there is a small risk that innocent people will be victims of gang crime.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-182	Madam President, I would like It is just as I began by saying; gang crime is one of the major social problems. It's just like that. But what I am asking from the Swedish Democrats is whether they have any thought whatsoever about how it should be broken. It is easy to stand and talk for four minutes about the problems that exist if you are not at the same time prepared to explain what solutions you have. I have presented a wide range of measures that we have taken. We have more than doubled the number of students in police training, we have tightened the penalties sharply, there are more prisoners than ever, we are expanding the prison system considerably and we have ensured that there are more resources, more employees and better tools for law enforcement authorities than ever before. And that reform work continues. I only received a few months ago the big gang crime investigation, which has looked at criminal law related to crimes that gang criminals often commit. Among other things, it proposes increasing the possibilities of arrest for certain crimes, the strengthening of penalties in connection with gang conflicts and specific penalties for those seeking to recruit young people into criminal gangs and much more. We are working on these proposals within the framework of what we call the 34-point programme. I received an investigation last spring that has looked at how we can break the culture of silence. These include the reform of Crown Witnesses and the strengthening of penalties for abuse of justice. And a little later this autumn or winter, I will receive an investigation that will put forward proposals on how we can be better at spending the money, i.e. impounding and forfeiting the funds that criminals manage to usurp. All of this is just a sample of what we go forward with in the 34-point program. And we will continue to reinforce it. Yesterday, as I said, we added an additional EUR 2 1⁄2 billion in special efforts on the law enforcement side in particular. What I asked Tobias Andersson was whether he has any thoughts on how to prevent crime. Or is everything just about how to lock up more people? In that case, we agree. That's what we're doing. But I believe that, if we are to break this in the longer term, we must also prevent crime. I often talk to police officers in the affected areas. They say three things. One is that there needs to be more cops. The second is that they need more criminal law tools, more cameras set up. But they always say one more thing: Keep in mind that it is not just about us, that is, about police officers. If this is to work, social services must also work. The school must work well. There must be leisure activities for children who may not be very well at home and where the family may not function properly. Social services must have the means to take care of children who are in real difficulty and are about to fall into crime. Maybe you don't today. Therefore, it is now important that the municipalities also respond to the major efforts made by the state. The municipalities must respond with their resources. Last year the local government sector had a surplus of 50 billion. Use some of that money for school, leisure and social work! This afternoon I will meet representatives of the City of Stockholm. I will ask the same questions to those representatives; the City of Stockholm had a surplus of almost 5 billion last year. What are you doing now to help break the trend in Stockholm when it comes to shootings, explosions and other things? My question to Tobias Andersson is: how can it be that, as soon as you have the opportunity to vote through budgets in this House, you are voting against increased resources for the vulnerable areas, for schools, social services, leisure activities and other things that break the new recruitment? Why is that?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-192	Madam President, I would like I think it is difficult to allow the municipalities to shoulder too much responsibility, not least if the proposal is based on the fact that the municipalities last year had surpluses. This was, of course, a direct consequence of the support measures that were in place during the pandemic. Morgan Johansson and the government should be well aware that many of Sweden's municipalities have relatively poor economic conditions. I also did not get an answer from Morgan Johansson to my question. Throughout the interpellation debate, it has been whether Morgan Johansson maintains that there is little risk that innocent people will in any way suffer the gang crime that they have failed to curb. Now I've put it back. I shall be very clear in my answer back to Morgan Johansson, so that he can feel that I answered his question and that he will hopefully be able to answer the question I have asked him several times. The Swedish Democrats believe in preventive measures. In my opinion, division in society is the greatest flaw. Why do we have a division in society? Yes, because more people have come to Sweden than we have been able to receive. Once they have arrived, they have not been required to adapt to society. They have never become part of the community that could have existed here. And when you are not part of a collective community, you lack the initiative to act constructively. The Social Democrats should agree with this. If we had instead applied an assimilation policy and ensured that all those who have come here, who have the right to be here and who are not going back home, would have become part of Swedish society, we would have seen a safer society that had stayed together. That would have been the best preventive measure. Now it is Morgan Johansson's turn to answer the question.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-198	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that innocent people are at risk of gang crime. I've never said anything else. But one suffers in different ways, not least by being limited by fear in one's residential area. It is perhaps the worst effect of the situation that we have seen in a number of areas. For example, you do not dare to stay in certain places. That's exactly why we redesigned the policy in 2014. We are now investing much more in law enforcement work in the areas of police officers, punitive measures, camera surveillance and everything along those lines. We do this because we have identified this as one of the major social problems. But what I still cannot understand is Tobias Andersson's approach to preventive measures. I asked him how he views preventive work. Then he said that in one way or another this is really the immigrants' fault. Well, we have the people we have in our country. These are the people we have to work with, no matter where they come from. Then it is important to make sure that we can live together in a good way and not point each other out like this and say that it is your fault or put scapegoat stamps on different people just depending on ethnic background. At least I'll never agree to that. I note that every time the Swedish Democrats have the opportunity to vote on draft budgets here, they cut resources to not least the vulnerable areas. They did so as late as 2018 when they pushed through a budget with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. They removed SEK 400 million, which was specifically earmarked for investments in social services, schools, leisure activities and other activities in the vulnerable areas. The Swedish Democrats once again stand out as a purely right-wing party that sees one part but does not care a single thing about improving the welfare and conditions of those living in the vulnerable areas.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-203	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I and the government intend to take any steps to prevent more Afghans who do not have in Sweden from being evacuated from Afghanistan. Tobias Andersson has also asked me if I will look at whether Afghans who have vacationed at home have been granted a residence permit on incorrect grounds. The Minister of Justice, the Minister of Home Affairs and myself have recently explained the government's work on controlling and security testing individuals who have been evacuated from Afghanistan on several parliamentary issues. First of all, I would like to point out that an international evacuation operation has ended. The last Swedish-organised flights and the Swedish staff have left Afghanistan. No further Swedish evacuation flights are planned at this time. Let me now state the following about the evacuation operation. Special reception places were set up in the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan. There, the transit of Afghans was prepared for resettlement by the Migration Agency in collaboration with other Swedish authorities and with other countries' personnel. In the event of resettlement, the Security Service shall assess the security aspects a. It's part of their regular mission, and that's what's happened now. The police department has assisted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on site at Kabul Airport in Afghanistan. Checks were carried out at the airport. It has been checked that people have been able to present a valid Swedish passport or Afghan passport with a valid residence permit to travel with one of the Swedish transports. Persons to be resettled to Sweden were checked in accordance with lists at Kabul airport. The two Afghans with a return ban, to which Tobias Andersson refers in his question, were arrested in the border control at Arlanda. They were detained on suspicion of breach of the re-entry ban. Tobias Andersson also asked me whether I will review whether residence permits have been issued on incorrect grounds. It is the Finnish Immigration Service that decides on a residence permit. It is also the Finnish Immigration Service that decides to withdraw a residence permit or a declaration of protection in accordance with the provisions of the Aliens Act. The Government has confidence that the Migration Agency applies existing regulations and does not intend to make any changes therein.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-211	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from the Government. On Wednesday 25 August, two Afghan citizens were arrested at Arlanda Airport after being flown to Sweden with an evacuation flight from Afghanistan. This is something that has been reported, among other things, by Riks. The reason for the arrest was that they both had a return ban to Sweden as a consequence of having previously been convicted of a crime and served a sentence in Sweden. It was in connection with the identity check on arrival in Sweden that it was discovered that they were both subject to a return ban, as the Government reported. Of course, it is positive that they were arrested in connection with the attempt to enter, but at the same time it can be said that it will be difficult to expel them back to Afghanistan, which I will return to in my next speech. The fact that they could make it all the way to Sweden is bad enough. We have a situation in Afghanistan where there is chaos and confusion. Swedish military in cooperation with Swedish diplomats have done their utmost to act on the directives they have been given. I am convinced that Swedish personnel have acted on the best of their ability, and of course they should have our thanks for the terrible situation they were in. In the chaotic forms, it is not very strange that two people have slumped through. On the contrary, it is likely that far more people may have managed to get here, if not on the Swedish evacuation plan, perhaps on other states' evacuation plans in cases where they have also included people with Swedish connections. In these cases, the people concerned may not have yet arrived in Sweden, or they have done so, for example by land via a neighbouring country, without any attention being paid to it. Madam President, I would like We do not know for sure. On the other hand, we know that if Sweden had acted differently, it would be less likely that this would happen. The government's sharp caste has hardly made it easier to keep track of who leaves Afghanistan to go to Sweden. Initially, the government did not want to allow anyone to come here, but now it has been proudly informed that well over 1,000 people have been evacuated to Sweden from Afghanistan. These figures are excluding those that are still expected to fly to Sweden regularly or have left Afghanistan in other ways. It is even more difficult to keep track because different groups have been evacuated. It concerns people with Swedish citizenship or residence permits, and also local staff at the embassy, former interpreters, activists and journalists. We know that among these there are people who have initially been welcomed here on wrong grounds, but in view of what it has looked like in previous waves of people who have come to Europe and Sweden, we also know that there may be considerably more people who have come here with false IDs or such. Furthermore, the next problem remains. Among those who have been welcomed here can be found people who have completely different loyalties from the Swedish one. In other words, as in previous waves of refugees, there is a risk that we have now actively chosen to fly here people who may want Sweden and its people ill, which we lack knowledge of. Is this something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs fears?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-218	Madam President, I would like On 27 August, Sweden concluded one of its most difficult evacuations ever. For a few weeks we evacuated in close cooperation with other countries over 1,100 people from Afghanistan. The evacuation operation was carried out under extremely difficult conditions, and the Swedish group at the airport did a fantastic job. In connection with the capture of Kabul by the Taliban, the security situation deteriorated rapidly and drastically. The relevant Swedish authorities therefore worked actively, in close communication with the government, to identify persons with urgent protection needs in Afghanistan and evacuate people to Sweden. At an extraordinary government meeting on 15 August, the Government decided on a number of changes to the regulatory framework for the withdrawal of quota refugees. This was done to allow greater flexibility in emergency situations, including the temporary removal of the requirement to be in third countries. The Finnish Immigration Service has also been given the opportunity to redistribute among the places within Sweden's refugee quota in 2021 to enable a larger number of places in emergency situations. Against all odds, we managed to resettle more than 660 Afghan citizens, all of whom are innermost in Sweden. The group of resettled staff includes all the embassy's local staff with families and all local guards with families. In addition, some former local employees who worked for the Swedish ISAF force were resettled, also with families, and completed their assignment in 2014. Some EU staff were also resettled. This was done in a very dangerous and vulnerable environment. Among the Afghans who were resettled urgently, there are also a number of women's rights defenders and journalists who could come to Sweden as quota refugees. The difficult and risky circumstances meant that the ambition to evacuate even more Swedes and people in need of resettlement, including the Swedish Armed Forces' former local staff, was not reached. The reason for this was, among other things, that the Taliban stopped Afghan citizens whom we managed to get to the airport. Unfortunately, in connection with the evacuations, a few people who were not allowed to enter Sweden were still able to travel back, despite the control systems. Unfortunately, such things can happen in a difficult and pressured situation. Sweden is not the only country that has experienced this type of event. We will, of course, investigate what happened. However, I would like to make it clear that the two Afghan citizens who were previously expelled were not among those who were proposed for resettlement. It is also important to emphasise that our control bodies in Sweden have worked well and have captured these individuals. The speed of the change that took place in Afghanistan cannot be overemphasised. The assessment, also from the U.S. side, was that it would take at least one month for the Taliban to surround Kabul and three months to take the city. But it came to be about days. The security situation in Afghanistan has meant that the handling of the persons involved in evacuation was time critical, and the safety assessments were made on the basis of the information available at the time of evacuation. I have full confidence in the work of the Swedish authorities in the difficult situations created by the security situation in Afghanistan.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-226	Madam President, I would like I highlighted in my last speech the risk of people being welcomed here from Afghanistan, although they do not have here to do, and that among them there may be people with deeply problematic agendas. In two cases, as I said, we have succeeded in drawing attention to and arresting individuals like these. The Foreign Minister mentions that other countries have also failed to realise that there have been people who do not belong there from Afghanistan. However, there is a risk that these two individuals, as well as any others that are discovered, will be released in the future, like the release of other foreigners on the loose when they have been detained for too long while awaiting expulsion, as has unfortunately happened on a regular basis during the pandemic. We already have a situation in which we have had difficulties with expulsions to Afghanistan for several years. We have not succeeded in implementing them, despite the fact that the EU has a cooperation agreement with Afghanistan, which concerns, among other things, the readmission of Afghan citizens, which I know the Foreign Minister is behind. This problem has worsened during the pandemic, as the pandemic gave the Afghan Government and certainly others an incredibly good excuse for not receiving their own citizens who would have been expelled from Sweden, probably from other countries as well. In the aftermath of the Taliban's advance and seizure of power, the expulsions may be made even more difficult in different ways. Given that, it was extremely problematic to evacuate Afghans who, for good reason, do not have in Sweden to do. Of course, Sweden has a responsibility towards Swedish citizens, but many of those who were flown here only had a residence permit. Then the question remains whether they have really received it on honest grounds if they have chosen to travel home in the country they claimed to flee from, despite the Foreign Affairs Department's travel advice to Afghanistan. Most of these are from the so-called Swedish list, which includes not only Swedish citizens but also others. It will be an interesting question to what extent this will be followed up by the Migration Agency, if it is that it has been issued a residence permit on incorrect grounds and people who should never have received the Swedish residence permit have managed to fibble it anyway. Undoubtedly, they have not felt so threatened at home in Afghanistan, when they chose to vacation there or spend parental leave, summer holidays or such things there. I understand that it is up to the Migration Agency to ultimately examine these matters and possibly take action. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she or anyone else from the Government will call on the Migration Board to properly examine this, as it is clear that there are likely errors.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-232	Madam President, I would like A person with a permanent residence permit may enter and leave the country. A person who has a temporary residence permit can enter and leave the country for as long as the residence permit is valid. Returning to Sweden requires both a valid passport and a residence permit card in both situations. According to the Aliens Act, the Finnish Immigration Service has the possibility to withdraw a declaration of status as a refugee or alternatively as a person in need of protection under certain circumstances. The Finnish Immigration Service can also decide to withdraw a residence permit. A person's declaration of status may be revoked either because he or she ceases to be in need of protection or because it has become apparent that he or she is excluded from being considered a refugee or an alternate person in need of protection. It is the Finnish Immigration Service which, after an individual assessment in each individual case, decides whether a status statement or a residence permit should be revoked. Madam President, I would like In this situation, it is also not the case that the expulsions to Afghanistan have been made more difficult – they have been suspended. On 16 July, the Finnish Immigration Service took a decision on a suspension of execution, which means that no enforcement of final removal decisions to Afghanistan may take place. The enforcement stop is valid until further notice. The Finnish Immigration Service is following developments in Afghanistan very closely and will continue to analyse developments to see in the long term whether changes need to be made to the legal governance. The government wishes to emphasise that a foreigner may not be sent to an area where the person's life or freedom would be threatened or where the person is in danger of being subjected to torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment. This is the meaning of the principle of non-refoulement. We must respect that principle.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-236	Madam President, I would like Of course we will, but it may also be that there are people who have nothing to fear in Afghanistan and who could be expelled, given that the Taliban have now been open and honest that they will not oppose potential expulsions. I am not saying that it would be right to deport this difficult situation, but I would still like to hear the Foreign Minister talk about it. To what extent does the government intend to engage in dialogue with the new government that has unfortunately taken power in Afghanistan? Is there any ambition to initiate such dialogues? Like what I have previously touched upon, a problem arises with Swedish law text when people who are to be expelled are detained for too long and released at large. This has happened regularly during the pandemic. It has not rarely been people that you really shouldn't want to have at large. This applies, for example, to persons who have committed sexual offences. Against this background and given that we know that there is a risk that Swedes will get hurt in Sweden as a consequence of the fact that we cannot expel people who are subsequently released at large and who are potential repeat offenders, it should be in the government's interest to take all possible measures to establish a functional expulsion in cases where this is relevant. If we return to the fact that over 1 100 people have been flown to Sweden, of which we have good control of some and less good control of others, a question arises as to where their loyalty lies. It may be that only because you have helped a little at the Swedish Embassy in Kabul does not mean that you have strong loyalty to Sweden. On the contrary, you may have strong loyalty to other forces. They could, for example, be sympathizers to the Taliban. We know how other terrorist organisations regularly tried to sneak in and fly into Europe. How does the minister view it?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-241	Madam President, I would like What Mr Andersson is referring to is true. It may be that those who have worked for Sweden also have other loyalties. This is also why controls were carried out after 2014 when the Swedish Armed Forces stopped hiring people. Those who had worked for Sweden in 2006– 2014 were screened if they wanted to come back to Sweden. A number came back to Sweden with their families. A number received other offers such as studies or relocations in Afghanistan. A number did not pass the security clearance for various reasons. This is also happening with the new people who were not taken care of the last time that we have now identified as having worked on the Swedish ISAF Force 2006– 2014. They won't be able to come back until they pass the security clearance. That is also one of the reasons why it has taken a long time. It is important to identify who it was and see that it is actually the person it claims to be, that is to do an identity check, and after doing a security check. We had checked a relatively large number of people who were about to come to Sweden for resettlement. But these security-controlled people were stopped by the Taliban right up at the gate. That work continues. This applies to both identification and screening. It is obvious that we do not want people who, for example, have worked with terrorism, for other powers or the like to be admitted to Sweden. That goes without saying.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-247	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me how it is that the calculation model Sweden uses to convert grades for students from abroad lowers the grades when they are converted. Furthermore, she has asked me whether I will instruct the UHR to change the conversion model so that the grades are correct. Applicants to the university should be able to compete on equal terms, regardless of the country in which they completed their upper secondary education. It is like Kristina Axén Olin says the Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR, who gives regulations on merit evaluation of grades. This includes determining how grades from foreign education should be valued in relation to grades from upper secondary schools in Sweden. The starting point is that applicants with foreign grades should as far as possible be treated as applicants with grades from the Swedish upper secondary school. Each country has different admission rules, and this is also reflected in the assessment of upper secondary school grades. According to the UHR, there is often a regulatory framework in other countries that takes into account not only upper secondary school grades but also other criteria, while in Sweden we use upper secondary school grades and university tests as a selection instrument. This means that the grades have by comparison a clearer selection function in the Swedish system and that they then have greater consequences than in many other countries. At the last review, UHR concluded that the grading distribution among those who applied to the university with upper secondary school grades from the United States was very different among applicants with Swedish upper secondary school degrees. The University is part of the Swedish education system and builds on the Swedish upper secondary school. Without an adjusted assessment of foreign grades, students who have attended Swedish upper secondary school could find it difficult to compete for places in popular higher education. The main rule for allocating places for selection to higher education is that at least one third should be allocated on the basis of grades, at least one third on university test results and at most one third on university decided selection criteria. This means that there are other opportunities than grades to compete with and be admitted to higher education that require selection. UHR is the government's expert authority and best placed to make assessments on merit assessment of foreign grades. It is within UHR's mission to continuously evaluate the consequences of the admission rules. The fact that the agency revises its regulations based on newer admission statistics shows that the agency carries out these analyses and also makes revisions where it is necessary so that applicants to the university can compete on equal terms, regardless of which country they completed their upper secondary education in. I do not intend to propose any changes to the authority's regulatory powers in this area.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-254	Madam President, I would like We have 660 000 Swedes living in the world. We'll be proud and happy about that. They spread knowledge about Sweden. They bring knowledge from Sweden. They enrich other countries with their knowledge. We hope, of course, that they will return to Sweden and share what they have learned in other countries. It is knowledge of other cultures and other countries. It is fantastic experiences from all over the world and also a network that is important for Sweden in an increasingly global world. Many of the Swedes who live in other countries are good Swedes. Many also have their families and children studying in other countries. We want them to come back, and we hope we get these families back. Madam President, I would like I have been contacted by I do not know how many Swedes abroad now describe to me how they choose not to move back to Sweden because we have a strange rating system as we convert other countries' ratings in a very strange way. Madam President, I would like I therefore wrote an interpellation to Minister Matilda Ernkrans and asked why we should do this. We can take the example of the United States, where we have 150 000 Swedes living. If our Swedish students in the United States get the highest grade, it would in Sweden be 20,0 according to the grade scale we have these days. Since 2019, UHR has a new conversion table that means that if you have a maximum rating in the USA you get a reduction in Sweden with 1 point so that you get 19.0 instead of 20.0. That's completely unreasonable. If you have a maximum rating in the USA you should of course have maximum points in Sweden as well, but you do not get that. Madam President, I would like I therefore asked the Minister if she would be prepared to review the rules that make Sweden do such a strange conversion of foreign ratings and whether it is really reasonable that we do so. I also asked the Government how it can come about that we have a calculation model that makes us lower foreign Swedes' grades if they choose to come back to Sweden to study.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-261	Madam President, I would like I share the commitment and also the view that it is important for people to be able to move around the world and between countries for various reasons. I belong to those who think that you should be able to live, live, study and work in different places in the world and be able to build yourself stronger for the future. It is good for the individual, not least for young people. Applicants to the university should be able to compete on equal terms regardless of the country in which they have completed their upper secondary education. For this reason we have an expert authority in this area that has this responsibility. The Swedish Council for Higher Education issues regulations on merit evaluation of grades. Merit evaluation is also used if you compete with a selection for a university place. This does not apply to all higher education places. The regulations on merit evaluation of grades include determining how grades from foreign education should be valued in relation to grades from the upper secondary school in Sweden so that there will be equal conditions between applicants to the university from Sweden and from other countries. The reason is that foreign grades should, as far as possible, be comparable to applicants' grades from the Swedish upper secondary school. During this year's review, UHR has concluded that the grades among those who have applied to the university with upper secondary school grades from the USA, as the example here applies, have a very different distribution compared to the grades for applicants with a Swedish upper secondary school degree. The UHR has therefore seen that this is something you need to adjust. Again: The university is part of the Swedish education system and builds on the Swedish upper secondary school. Without an adjusted assessment of foreign grades, students who have attended Swedish upper secondary school would find it difficult to compete for places in popular higher education. We should also remember that when it comes to the distribution of places with selection to the university, at least one third is distributed on the basis of grades, at least one third on university test results and one third on university decided selection criteria. It is therefore possible to compete with several possibilities for admission to higher education. I believe that the UHR, which is the government's expert authority, is best placed to make the assessments of merit assessment of foreign grades. It is within UHR's mission to continuously evaluate the consequences of the admission rules. The fact that you actually revise your regulations on the basis of newer admission statistics shows that the agency carries out the analyses and also makes revisions when necessary. We will also add to this interpellation debate that in spring 2020 1,174 people from the USA applied to the university in Sweden. Twelve percent of them had the highest rating. That's the number we're talking about here; I thought it was mentioned some other numbers from Kristina Axén Olin. As I said, I do not intend to propose any changes to the authority's right of regulation in this area. I think that this is the authority's responsibility and mission, and that is a reasonable way of ensuring that we get an equivalence in this.
i-7JMZPrQ7sXuTojMESJQQen	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Anna Hallberg and Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions relating to his own area of responsibility.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-270	Madam President, I would like The government is now taking the first step to seize large parts of the Swedish forest so that it can no longer be used – an area as large as Västmanland, we have been told. This is done despite the fact that the forest is central to climate change when we can crowd out fossil products by building houses in wood, driving on residual products from the forest and even making clothes of wood fibres, despite the fact that a third of Swedish forests can already not be used and despite the fact that the authorities warn that the forest that the state is seizing is not taken care of without both biodiversity and outdoor life being threatened. Why does the government not want to let Sweden's 300 000 private forest owners do what they are absolutely best at and have done for generations, i.e. care for their forests for the benefit of both the climate and biodiversity?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-272	Madam President, I would like I must say that I am very strongly opposed to the words of Jessica Rosencrantz. No one is seizing any forest or in any way distrusting all of Sweden's forest owners. On the contrary, we know very well that very many small forest owners are doing a fantastic job of caring for and caring for their forests, both for the natural values that are there and for the recreational and visitor values that many around the country so much appreciate. However, it is equally clear – Jessica Rosencrantz can see what day she wants – that we also have some challenges. We have more and more species that are redlisted. We are quite far from achieving the environmental goals of living forests and a rich plant and animal life that the Swedish Parliament, including the Moderates, has supported. Of course, the government also has a responsibility to ensure that these objectives are met and achieved. We do so in the same way and in the same way as previous governments have done. I think you should think about the choice of words you use in these contexts.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-275	Madam President, I would like Forestry is a key to the transformation and has created the natural values that we hold dear today in very many cases. It is not forestry that is the threat, but the government. I have three supplementary questions: how much of this protection will be voluntary for forest owners, and how much will be coercion? How will the government ensure that we do not have a deficit in the management of these areas, just as we do today in those areas that cannot be used? And finally, how will the government ensure that we succeed in the transition when we get fewer products from the forest?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-277	Madam President, I would like Through the budgetary provisions recently presented by the government, there is every possibility of combining the protection of valuable land and, at the same time, of providing the compensation that is obviously paid to those who make various efforts to care for the land, either by maintaining the land and by contractually continuing to protect it or by the government buying it, then with an additional supplement in addition to the market price. But we also need to ensure that we have a use of the forest that provides both forest products that can replace fossil fuels and at the same time also provides revenue to the Swedish economy.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-278	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd bring up the media attention to the case of a rapist who received a compensation of SEK 840 000. The man and his brother had kidnapped a woman in a basement in Malmö. There he forced her to undress and then began raping her with other men. Almost 24 hours of abuse went on before the police freed the woman. The rapist was sentenced for this and a former brutal rape to ten years in prison, but when all the government's penalties remained unchanged, only four and a half years remained. Yet the man appealed, and the punishment finally landed in two years when he suddenly obtained a Syrian passport. The rapist then received a compensation of SEK 840 000 because he has been spending 14 months too long, all protected from foreclosure, even to his former victim, while the woman's compensation was a fraction of this. Indifference to victims of crime, unlike the millimetre of justice shown to be grossly criminal, is a major offense. What is the reason why the government never comes up with new legislation despite years after years of pledges to change the laws?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-281	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the case that Mikael Strandman highlights, like many other criminal cases in Sweden, is deeply upsetting and of course should never be either excused or accepted. On the contrary, the government, together with its authorities, is committed to combating this type of crime – and, of course, other forms of crime as well. When it comes to penalties, I am sure that Mikael Strandman knows that the government works with penalties in many different ways and for many different crimes. We are also working precisely on the issue of mass crime. It is a work that continues unabated. On the other hand, with regard to this type of lawsuit and compensation, it follows exactly the same principles that have been in force for a long time. However, I can agree that it is sticking in the eyes, and that is something that I think we need to look further at. It is, of course, the victims of crime who should be cared for by society, and that is who we should have in mind most of all.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. For decades, victims' shelters, lawyers and representatives of the judiciary have asked politicians to review the legislation, in particular the legislation on protection against foreclosure to former victims of crime. It is quite unreasonable that current legislation, which damages public confidence in the justice system, should remain unchanged year after year. Why haven't you started this before? You keep referring to investigations coming, but nothing seems to happen.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-287	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you might think that the Swedish system is slow and slow. However, if Mikael Strandman and the Swedish Democrats were to come into government at some point, they would find that there are requirements for preparation to be able to implement measures, such as investigating things so that you know what the effects and consequences of proposals are. I think that's all right. However, I can really reassure Mikael Strandman and everyone else that this is an extremely high priority for the government and that we are working as quickly as possible, both in combating crime and, of course, in finding good compensation for the victims.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-290	Madam President, I would like Sometimes I find it difficult that I have a disability. Sometimes I wish I could be an ordinary person like everyone else. ..................................................... These words are not mine. They belong to Dimitri Lago and are a quote from Svenska Dagbladet the other day. We see that long-term unemployment is growing and persists, especially among those with disabilities – plus 16% it has been the last year. In view of this, I wonder what the government and Minister Eva Nordmark are planning to combat unemployment for those who need extra support and adjustment in order to be able to enter the labour market.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-293	Madam President, I would like I thank Alireza Akhondi for the important issue. There is no doubt that the pandemic has hit Sweden hard as a society and against the labour market. For people with disabilities who have reduced working capacity, it is extremely important that we do everything in our power to help them enter the labour market, have a lasting establishment and self-sufficiency. That is why I gave a clear message last Friday as to how we are continuing the reform of the Employment Service. For these people there is the whole toolkit of the Public Employment Service, but also support and efforts that can be important to provide the right conditions for sustainable livelihood and establishment.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-296	Madam President, I would like Let me follow up with a question. The official sites are difficult to navigate for the very group we have been talking about. In particular, Arbetsförmedlingen gets really sharp criticism for having a very bad government site that makes it difficult for that group.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-299	Madam President, I would like The employment agency's mission is, of course, to ensure that people throughout our elongated country will receive the support they need and in the different ways that different individuals need. This is an issue that I and the government have highlighted. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen continues its development work. This is also why the government is now proposing a strong investment in labour market policy and also an addition to the Employment Service for next year of more than 500 million.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-301	Madam President, I would like Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund is absolutely right when he says that we are in a climate crisis, and we need to do more to reduce our emissions quickly. But sometimes we actually need to do less of certain things. For example, we cannot build new motorways that endanger our climate targets. Next year, the government will produce the proposed infrastructure plan. It is an investment plan for the next decade for more than SEK 800 billion. The Government has already announced that the infrastructure plan will include a new motorway to be built south of Stockholm – Interconnection Södertörn. Cross-connection Södertörn, which will cost over SEK 11 billion, is dismissed by, among other things, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency because emissions will increase so much. But the government says you have to build the highway according to the principle laid short lies.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-305	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for an important question. The government has been clear – and we have anchored in the Riksdag – that by 2045 Sweden will have no net greenhouse gas emissions at all. The IPCC report further underlines the importance of rapidly reducing emissions. This applies, of course, to all sectors of society, whether they are industry, households, housing or transport. I would like to emphasise that the road that Jens Holm is now talking about is already on the existing plane, so it is not a new one. We will, of course, when we design the infrastructure plan, which will be presented in spring, also include the climate issue as an important part of how we design the future transport system. But what will or will not be included in that plan is too early to say at present, but we will continue to work on this issue until it is presented in spring.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-308	Madam President, I would like I read the Climate Policy Council's review of the government's climate policy. The Climate Policy Council is proposing precisely that the planned objects of the infrastructure plan must be re-examined from a climate perspective as there are now completely new climate targets. Is it laid short, Minister of the Environment? Must all the motorways that have been planned remain in the infrastructure plan, or can one lift out Tvärtändning Södertörn?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-310	Madam President, I would like The fact that a government can make changes to the infrastructure plan is well known. It has been done through history, and unfortunately in my opinion it has been done in the wrong direction. The bourgeois government, before the red-green government, for example, lifted the Norrbotnia Line. This means that it has not been completed. If it hadn't been for that decision, the course would have been finished by now. They also wanted to stop the Central Tunnel for trains in Stockholm, but there they had to change their mind. Of course, changes can be made, and we will come back on this issue later.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-312	Madam President, I would like Forests are national competences and forests are not included in the EU Treaty. Nevertheless, the EU machine tries to drive violence against Swedish sustainable forestry, sometimes with the good memory of the government. There are many of us who are concerned about how Sweden will stand up to the current LULUCF proposal. We believe that the increased carbon sink allocated to Sweden may lead to a 15-17% reduction in felling levels. This would have huge consequences for Swedish forestry and for the opportunities for the bioeconomy to grow and thus to phase out fossil fuels. How will the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action and the Government act to reduce Sweden's LULUCF target and be in line with our climate policy framework and thus not affect felling levels and our climate transition?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-315	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ottosson for an important question. Sweden has on many occasions stressed the importance of Swedish forests and forestry for Sweden as a country and our economy. I myself have had a number of meetings with several Commissioners, where I have repeatedly stressed the multifunctionality of Swedish forests. There are many different social objectives and objectives that are captured in forestry policy and the forest industry. It is, of course, the production of products that can replace fossil fuels and reduce the footprint. The forest is also a carbon sink, and the forest is a habitat for animals, plants and biodiversity. We have repeatedly stressed, and will continue to emphasise, to the Commission how important it is for all aspects to be taken into account when making their assessments. We will continue to point that out. We are now examining the Commission's proposal on LULUCF, and we will be anchored in Parliament before we make a feedback to the Commission.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-319	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that, in some respects, the Government still has a sound view of forestry, although we do not share all the views. The EU proposal is rather counterproductive to the climate. If the proposal goes through, it will move emissions instead of reducing them. The focus should be on stimulating the bioeconomy. In fact, we have made a decision in the Swedish Parliament on a bioeconomy strategy. We haven't seen much more of it. What's going on, Bolund, on that question?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-322	Madam President, I would like Work on the strategy is under way, and it is an important part of Sweden's environmental and climate policy and industrial policy. On the issue of carbon sinks, we welcome the EU's ambition to raise carbon sinks in general within the EU, but of course the distribution between countries must also be reasonable. I can reassure Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson that from the government there is no doubt that Sweden will not be a sink that enables other countries to increase or maintain their emissions, but we will do what we can to reduce the climate impact in Sweden. But other countries must do the same.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-324	Madam President, I would like I have noticed that Minister Bolund in various interviews claims that he has saved Swedish nuclear power. I am not an expert or researcher, but it is enough to look at what they are saying to understand that the government's non-decision on the disposal of nuclear fuel has damaged Sweden. Madam President, I would like I can also understand somewhere why the Green Party is in agony of the obvious decision to say yes to a repository. Their only argument against nuclear power, that Sweden has no repository, would end at the same moment. Once again, the Green Party has politicised an important decision. Above all, the government has thrown Sweden into an acute electrical crisis with consequences for the climate, jobs, welfare and, not least, people's everyday lives.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-328	Madam President, I would like I do not recognise that I would have said that I have saved Swedish nuclear power. I also find it unfortunate that, as Mr Teimouri does, two different issues are not connected. Nuclear power is a question. There you can have different opinions. However, the fact that we have nuclear waste that needs to be taken care of, I think we all agree, so that those issues would be connected will have to stand for Arman Teimouri. It doesn't stand for me or the government. However, if we had continued to examine the single application for both final and interim storage together, we would have ended up in a situation where the issue had been appealed and gone through courts and we had not had a final decision until at least 2025, when we knew that the intermediate warehouse would have been fully 2023 or 2024. It would have been genuinely irresponsible for a government to continue on a path that is known not to lead to a reasonable decision and a reasonable conclusion. That's why we made this decision. I still think it was the right decision, and I would like to hear Mr Arman's explanation on how to avoid that situation.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-332	Madam President, I would like There is, of course, relevant research, 50 years of research, and the government has also had the opportunity to steer the work up to now. The electricity crisis persists, it is confirmed by both public authorities and state Vattenfall, and what the Government does not seem to understand is that the foundation of the climate transition is spelled electrification. The government's non-decision has put us in an electricity crisis that will make climate change difficult. Paradoxically, Madam President, the government itself has become the biggest threat to Swedish climate policy.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-334	Madam President, I would like I am firmly opposed to that description. It has little to do with reality, in my opinion. We are pursuing electrification at an enormous rate – I would say faster than any other country. For example, we are at the forefront of the European Union in the phase-in of electric cars. Every fourth car sold now is an electric car, and every other car is a rechargeable car. Sweden is also at the forefront in terms of replacing fossil fuels with hydrogen, which is also electric. We also increase electricity production in Sweden – although with renewable sources, it is because they are the cheapest. They are also the ones in which the market chooses to invest.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-339	Madam President, I would like After an extremely tough time with increased unemployment in the Swedish labour market, the situation is now improving and restrictions are removed. The Swedish economy is recovering, and many are now coming back to work. But it doesn't apply to everyone. Although it looks bright to many, too many people are at risk of falling into unemployment. At the same time, there are reports that many employers have difficulties in providing skills. You have great recruitment needs but still difficult to find people with the right skills and knowledge for the jobs.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-342	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have two really big problems in the Swedish labour market today. One is long-term unemployment, and the other is the need for employers to recruit. Today we have 109 000 vacancies at the Platsbanken, so what the government is doing is to ensure that more people come in the kind of education that employers are asking for. I am thinking of labour market training, which is extremely important and in which we will be investing another 425 million in next year, but also of the huge redeployment and skills support that we will begin to implement. We will have the world's best conversion system so that more people can train and replenish with new knowledge and skills through a full career and so that employers can acquire the skills they need to develop their businesses. That is how we create growth and prosperity and manage well-being.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. These are, of course, extremely long-awaited initiatives and a hugely positive development in the labour market with greater educational efforts and so on. But there are more people who are unemployed and are at risk of being unemployed for a very long time and as it has very difficult to get back to work. What is the government doing to prevent more people from falling into long-term unemployment?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-347	Madam President, I would like An important measure for the long-term unemployed, as we know, lacks the training, experience and skills that the employer is asking for, is that we need to provide opportunities for job seekers to study. The Government has ensured that Arbetsförmedlingen can direct to regular education. We have improved the economic conditions for studying. We provide more funding for internships, for introductory jobs, for additional services – yes, for important labour market policy measures.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-349	Madam President, I would like Now, during the pandemic, many Swedes have found their way into nature, and I am very happy about that. Many people want to stay out in nature. Then it is gratifying that the government is now announcing an initiative to the outdoor organizations so that all scouts, birdwatchers, yes, anyone interested in nature can experience more and learn more. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has carried out an evaluation of the outdoor objectives set by the Riksdag. Among other things, the issue of increased support for outdoor organisations has been raised, but also the need for increased protection of local nature so that all people who are interested in nature can easily get out and experience it.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-353	Madam President, I would like Yes, outdoor life is extremely important for Sweden and for the Swedish people. I am also pleased that so many Swedes have become aware of what values nature can give us now during the pandemic in the form of silence, calm, power and energy. That is something that we really must support for the future. That is why I am very pleased and proud that we can now double the funding for outdoor organisations. We add SEK 50 million to outdoor organisations to enable them to do their important work. My hope is that it will also allow many more people to be reached by the message, that we can open the door to many of the Swedish nature and that you can get information and knowledge and learn all the amazing things nature has to give. But of course it's not enough just to support outdoor life. We must also ensure that there is a valuable nature to be in. There I am proud of the 6 billion we have set aside so far, the 3.7 billion that we will set aside next year to protect and manage valuable nature and not least the special effort to upgrade hiking trails throughout Sweden. It will make a big difference for people to experience nature.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-356	Madam President, I would like Like environmental policy, outdoor life policy is something that asks for many areas of policy. Two of the initiatives where there are needs highlighted by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are to strengthen the school's work with outdoor activities and to increase knowledge of the right of public access. How can the government move forward harder on a broad front with more initiatives for outdoor life?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very good question. The money that we are now spending is extremely important in order to be outgoing with information and knowledge, for example towards school. It is important that our students get the knowledge needed to understand what rights we have as Swedes. These are unique rights – the right of public access, the right to enter the forest and land and that the land and nature are open to us. However, it is important to remember that the right of public access also contains obligations. We must also cherish nature that we enjoy. That information can make a big difference to reaching out with this money.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-360	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Anna Hallberg, Minister for Nordic Affairs. I would like to highlight once again the problems at the Swedish-Norwegian border and the problems of Norwegian travel restrictions and border controls that hit people and businesses in the border area. Every week I have contact with individuals and entrepreneurs who, with growing frustration, bear witness to problems with queues and unreasonable demands and rules. They think that the Swedish government is flat and that it must now actually breast up. What does the Minister say to all those entrepreneurs and individuals who think that she and the Swedish Government have been too passive and far too powerful against the Norwegian? How much longer will Sweden accept – as the Minister states in an answer to me to a question a few weeks ago – an unsustainable situation for commuters, transport, companies and private individuals?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Johan Hultberg, for an issue that is still, unfortunately, highly topical! The Swedish government has definitely not gone flat, but on the contrary it has been perhaps the most active government in the Nordic countries when it comes to finding a solution to border barriers issues. After all, each government makes its decisions on border barriers, border restrictions and border closures. But the work we have done on the part of the Swedish Government, not least me but also other ministers in the government, has had an effect. We should remember that there were huge queues at the Svinesund Bridge, but after we told the Norwegian Government this during the summer they opened another file, opened the old bridge and so on. So it has had an effect, including on the work-pendulums; we managed to reach an agreement on compensation for the work-pendulums. So we're doing what we can. Now we will soon have a new government in place in Norway, and we will continue to work with the new colleagues across the border to find a solution to the situation. It's still not solved, but it's getting better and better. We also hope that we will be able to have a perhaps even more constructive dialogue with the new government that is now taking office in Norway.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-366	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. During the Taliban's rapid take-over of power, a large number of Afghan rulers, officers, soldiers and police officers suddenly changed sides and supported the Taliban. It turned out that their loyalty was not with the former Afghan Government, but perhaps not with the democratic aspirations of the Western powers. During Sweden's almost 20-year military presence in Afghanistan, a large number of local staff – interpreters and others – have done very important work for the Swedish defence. Of course, they should have a great thank-you for this. Now that a number of these and their families have been flown to Sweden, my question is: How do we ensure that there are not among these also individuals with other loyalties, who in the long term could pose a threat to Sweden and Swedish citizens?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, for the question! This is, of course, one of the dimensions and one of the perspectives that it is important to have in this context. These different people are monitored and valued when deciding how resettlement and other activities should be carried out. In every context in different countries, it has slipped through people who may not have had the right motives. We have, among other things, discovered this at some point here in Sweden. I would like to note that this was discovered, and it is something for which we must take responsibility in the future – that these people are dealt with in the way that is regular. There are reviews, and we are following up on these kinds of issues.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-373	Madam President, I would like We all know that climate change is absolutely urgent; there is a short window to do something about this. At the same time, we see the clear trend that permit processes around Sweden slow down the necessary climate action. I am thinking, for example, of Kaunis Iron and Cementa. But I am also thinking of electricity lines that can take ten years to come up with, wind farms that take eight to ten years, offshore wind farms that take five parallel processes to get permits for and metals that we need to break for battery production. The efforts I have seen from the government so far are completely inadequate. We are now in a situation where the licensing process actually slows down the rapid climate change. My question to Minister Bolund is: Will the government change the permit processes and the environmental code so that we have time for climate change?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-375	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for an incredibly important question! Of course, we will do everything we can to encourage the initiatives that are now emerging in Sweden when it comes to changing in a sustainable direction. There is also a great deal to be done with the government's support, in the form of both the industry and green credit guarantees, to enable these investments. We are also making great efforts to provide as quick a response as possible and to ensure that the permit processes are short. We have a number of different proposals that we are now working on. One has already passed the Riksdag, a bill on how we can make grid expansion faster. There we aim to halve the times it takes to build electricity grids because electrification is such an important part of the sustainability work. We are also working on marine plans to make it faster, for example, to carry out investments in offshore wind power. In this area, we are therefore working to speed up the licensing processes. But I want to be clear that this should not happen in a way that lowers environmental ambitions in Sweden. We are not going to dismantle Swedish environmental protection, we are going to speed up the processes.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-378	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. Last November we were reached by reports and information about American espionage against Sweden via Denmark, among other things. The case then grew and was also about espionage against individual Swedish politicians. We have discussed this with the Minister for Defence in committee on several occasions, and he has said that it is important to put the cards on the table. This is of course an incredibly urgent and very serious issue to investigate so that it does not happen again. The Danish sister party, the red-green Enhedslisten, has recently sent a letter to Sweden, among others, asking for help to press the Danish investigation so that it includes the spying against Sweden. What measures has the Minister of Defence taken in response to this letter?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-380	Madam President, I would like The measures I take mean that all parties will be informed according to the specific regulations that apply to this. I have also asked to come and inform the Committee on Defence next Thursday. We are working intensively on this issue. I have previously provided information in the places where this is to be done, and I intend to do so on further occasions. Then we work in relation to the Danish Government.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-384	Madam President, I would like The other day, the Swedish Public Employment Service presented its new forecast, which shows that long-term unemployment is falling and that there are no signs of a decline. Rather, we are approaching 200 000 people in long-term unemployment, of which more than half have been unemployed for over two years. More than half of these were born outside Europe. This is a huge failure of the policies pursued. We already saw before the pandemic that unemployment started to increase in these groups too. The other day, the government presented classic social democratic reforms, which we believe are ineffective and expensive and have not led to better integration into the labour market. Today, the Director General of Arbetsförmedlingen goes out and says that Arbetsförmedlingen cannot cope with the entire integration policy.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad! It is true that, in order to succeed in integration, active labour market policies as well as a range of other policies are needed. As far as labour market policy is concerned, we are now making strong efforts to ensure that the Public Employment Service is present locally throughout our elongated country and that new opportunities come into place through start-up jobs and mediation efforts and through the intensive year that we kicked off in April. This government will do everything in our power to suppress long-term unemployment. Everyone who can work should work.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-390	Madam President, I would like We Swedes really love our forest. It gives us so much: capital, resources, experiences, raw materials, wood fibres. The forest in Sweden is almost comparable to religion. But the level of conflict in the forest is also quite high. The Swedish state has contributed to the high level of conflict, largely because private forest owners have had to sue the Swedish state for compensation. Promised compensations have not been paid, and private forest owners feel cheated on promised compensation. County Administrative Boards and Skogsstyrelsen have also announced to several private forest owners and landowners that they will have to wait for compensation. I now ask Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Environment, Mr Bolund, whether there can be resources set aside in the budget so that we can say that the state stands by its word of voluntaryity and that compensation to private landowners should be paid.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-392	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for an incredibly important question! I must say that I welcome the new commitment of the Social Democrats to deploy resources in the budget to protect forests and also to replace landowners. We in the Green Party may have been a little lonely in that fight before, but now we can fight together. It is incredibly important that we now set aside SEK 3.7 billion in the budget for next year in order to protect and manage valuable nature. That money will be extremely useful, whether in the form of agreements, where you pay forest owners who continue to own their forest and use it with great environmental benefits, or by making a deal. It is also important to recall that this money can mean that landowners do not have to wait for their compensation but receive compensation as soon as possible. We can also continue with the important tradition that in almost all cases it is a voluntary agreement between landowners and states, whether in the form of contracts or in the form of purchases. We'll continue to do that. It should be based on dialogue and cooperation, as the legislation says.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-396	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. We have talked about unemployment in the past, and it is also a very important issue. My question is about the so-called start-up jobs. The plan was to launch them in January 2019. Then it was delayed. Then it was said that it would happen in July 2020, and now we are talking about the first half of 2022. There have been many discussions on which companies would be included in the reform. For a while it was said that all companies would be included, of course, because all jobs are important and all jobs are needed. Unfortunately, however, it is now proposed that only companies covered by collective agreements will be included. It's a limitation. An important proposal was also the inclusion of temporary work agencies, but now they are not allowed to participate. Everyone should actually be included, I think. This is an important function both for establishment and for the integration process. It is also a special situation now during the pandemic. For example, restaurants, tourism and hotels do have a huge shortage of labour, but it is too expensive to train people without prior knowledge.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-401	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström, for your commitment to the issue of start-up jobs! After all, it is a completely new model that we are going to launch, and with the government crisis the reform was in fact further delayed. That's it. Why? Yes, it is natural to focus on companies covered by collective agreements because it was precisely in this context that the proposal was designed by the parties to the Swedish labour market. The idea is that the conditions for employees should also be regulated through sectoral collective agreements. What we are now doing on the part of the government is moving forward with the agreement that was made with the parties in 2018. I believe very much in the start-up jobs. I see it as a great opportunity for employers to find the right skills and for newly arrived and foreign born to get a lasting foothold on the Swedish labour market.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-404	Madam President, I would like During the tumultuous evacuation from Kabul that we have seen on television and been able to follow in newspapers, a clear fiasco occurred. It turned out that individuals could enter the aircraft without being controlled. Bags and backpacks have not been checked either. Some checks have been carried out, but not all of them have been able to be checked. This poses an enormous security risk. For example, a bomb could have been taken on board the plane. Impact assessments are very important. Bring that word! Now, perhaps, I turn primarily to the government representatives of a particular party. It was first at Arlanda that they discovered this, and then they had already landed in several places. Why was it first discovered there? Were there security guards down in Kabul? Were there soldiers? What about Frontex's involvement?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-408	Madam President, I would like It was chaotic conditions that prevailed in Kabul. It was difficult to get into the airport, and the Armed Forces staff, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' personnel and the security firm Vesper did what they could at all times. We also had armed air safety forces around the aircraft we brought there from the Swedish side. We worked with a wide range of countries to implement this. All the necessary security arrangements were taken. But in a chaotic situation you cannot guarantee every detail. I would like to emphasise that the staff who did this job did an extremely fine job. They were trying to guarantee security. We will have to come back with the arrangements for evaluating the operation and evacuation, and then these perspectives will also be highlighted.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-412	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Hallberg. On October 1, 2021, the doors will be opened to the World Expo 2020 exhibition in Dubai, called World Expo. There are 190 countries participating in the exhibition, including Sweden. The exhibition has three areas: opportunities, mobility and sustainability. Sweden's pavilion is in the area of sustainability. The world exhibition in Dubai will be a meeting place for the world's leading industrial nations and an opportunity for Sweden to share its culture, values and innovations. My question to the Government is: In what way will the government use the exhibition to highlight the climate change that Swedish industry is working with?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-416	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jamal El-Haj-Haj, for a very important question! It is currently highly topical. This is a window and a great opportunity to showcase the climate-friendly solutions that we are unique in creating in Sweden. I am talking about the green chain that we are about to create. This is about a sustainable mining industry. We're about to have a carbon-free steel. We have green batteries. We have green industrial production and green energy. We can demonstrate this. We will attract investments to Sweden. We can also show off our companies. It is not only about climate-friendly solutions but also about social sustainability. We have our trade unions. We are showing workers' rights on the ground in a rather complex region, the Gulf region. We also meet 190 countries on site in the exhibition. There will be high activity from the Government and Government Offices, but also from the business community. This is what we are doing in partnership with fifty-fifty in terms of funding. This will be a great opportunity to show us and our unique sustainable solutions together with the Swedish business community.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-422	Madam President, I would like There is a lack of power in southern Sweden, and the newspapers now report daily on sky-high electricity bills for ordinary consumers. This is not the first time that Karlshamnsverket has started its oil burning, which makes us in Sweden dependent on dirty electricity instead of clean electricity from the Swedish nuclear power plants. There is also uncertainty as to whether cement production will continue in Sweden in the long term or not. All in all, this means that large, important and necessary infrastructure projects in Sweden risk not being able to be built in the near future. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change, Mr Bolund, whether he or the government intends to make some kind of climate calculation in terms of how big the Swedish climate footprint will be if we build the government's planned high-speed rail lines with dirty electricity and imported cement.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-425	Madam President, I would like Åsa Coenraads mixes and gives on various issues. It is important to remember that the price of electricity varies. It has also done so historically. Generally, we have very low electricity prices in Sweden. Right now they're high because there's a low level in the hydroelectric dams. There are other factors too. But it is also important to remember that the power plant to which Åsa Coenraads refers has been run for one day. For the rest of the year we have a large surplus of electricity that we also export to the continent. There have been calculations that show that it is about 12 million tonnes of carbon dioxide that are cut by us having expanded renewable energy so that we can export it. Right now it is 25 terawatt hours that we export, but in the future there will be even higher levels of exports. As far as cement production is concerned, we know that the problems are due to the failure of Cementa's application. The government is now trying to resolve this. We are also working to add even more electricity, not least from offshore wind power. We know that it will do a great deal of environmental benefit to Sweden. We are now concentrating on getting that production in place.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-430	Madam President, I would like I was going to continue on the cement trail. Sweden is currently in a crisis of cement. Even if the Riksdag now resolves this by means of a temporary permit for Cementa, we will suffer. Construction investments are at risk of falling by 60 billion, and there are 135 000 jobs under threat. It should be noted that what has affected Cementa is not the first battle against Swedish lime mining and cement production. The government has already had a direct impact through its decision-making when it comes to rejecting the application for lime mining. This has affected both the limestone quarry in Jokkmokk and Nordkalk on Gotland. My question is simply: what has been the government's plan regarding Swedish cement supply, and has that plan changed in any way?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-433	Madam President, I would like As far as Cementa's condition is concerned, it is a situation that has not arisen from the actions of the government – it is important to keep in mind. It has been a test in the same way as always of industrial investment, and Cementa was unable to deliver the evidence requested by the court. Then we ended up in an exceptional situation, which the government now devotes both time and effort to solving and managing. We want to make a transition to sustainability, to reduce our climate impact, but also, of course, to ensure that all industries actually meet the legal requirements of the environmental code. It is also necessary to ensure that clean water and clean air are available and that operations are carried out in a sustainable manner. As far as Nordkalk is concerned, it is easy for Martin Kinnunen and everyone else to see that it is a producing company. They still produce lime in their operations. In fact, you should also show what reality looks like. It is not that the government has prevented such an activity. However, through, for example, Fossil-free Sweden's road maps, we help the cement industry to switch to a sustainable industry.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-436	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Some 70 000 Swedish women and men have served for peace-keeping purposes in military operations in some sixty countries since the 1950s. To these brave Swedes can be linked over half a million close relatives. It is relatives who have also made great sacrifices to promote peace, freedom and democracy around the world. These are people who have sacrificed much of their private lives so that we can all live in a better world. We are all, as individuals and as a nation, grateful to these people. Our veterans should always know that they have Sweden's total support. I also know that the government has taken a series of measures to strengthen support for our veterans. Recently, the government decided to proceed with the work for a comprehensive veteran policy through the formulation of a national veteran strategy. My question to the Minister for Defence is therefore: how is the work on the veteran strategy progressing, and when does the Minister for Defence think that we can have a comprehensive veteran strategy in place?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The strategy aims to better exploit the skills of veterans in society. It is also about how to follow up veterans, health care, mental health, views on family and member organisations, experiences of today's veteran unit with veteran centres and veteran coordinators and the conditions for veterans and research. That is the kind of question it will be about. Veteran policy is important and, of course, it is more and more topical through the international efforts we have. Work on the National Veteran Strategy is now being prepared in the Government Office. We will also involve the Veteran Association and the country's veteran associations in this work. We will urgently try to get started on this job. However, we have not yet set an end date for this investigation.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-443	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Environment and Climate Minister about the effects of plastic bag tax. The tax has hit hard on sustainable food bags made of recycled or biodegradable plastics, and sales of waste bags made abroad have increased. It has also been reported in the media that the proportion of loose garbage in waste bins has increased as fewer use plastic bags and sort their waste and more throw the garbage straight into the containers. As a result, an increased amount of garbage is caught by the wind when the vessels are emptied. There is therefore a clear risk of more plastic in nature after the introduction of the tax.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for a very important issue and for the commitment to littering! It is a commitment that I have often lacked in this House. I very much hope that we can work together against this environmental problem. On the other hand, it is a very big problem. We know that plastic pollution in our seas is increasing every year and that if we do not change that direction, in less than 30 years there will be more plastic than fish in the oceans. It must be met with a variety of actions. Therefore, around a hundred countries around the world have either had a ban on plastic bags or had various forms of economic instruments, such as the plastic bag tax. It is also something that the European Union is demanding of us. We have a requirement at European level that we must reduce the use of plastic bags. This applies to all EU countries. Different paths have been chosen. The location bag tax has also led to a reduction in the use of plastic bags. That is a step in the right direction, as I see it. But that's far from all that's needed. We need to do much more to reduce plastic litter, because it is a major environmental problem.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-450	Madam President, I would like There is currently a shortage of nurses in care for the elderly, while more and more elderly people need care. Making the profession attractive is important, but then you must be able to offer a good working environment. Then the introduction of so-called shared tours is completely the wrong way to go. Madam President, I would like Today, divided tours are most common in social democraticly governed municipalities, where there are often large deficits in the operating budget for quite other reasons. Then, in the usual order, you choose to reduce the number of people in health care and long-term care, among other things. State subsidies that could be used for elderly care are used instead of filling deficits, often linked to, among other things, an extreme immigration policy. Madam President, I would like In November 2019, the Government appointed a national coordinator to promote a good working environment in municipally funded care. It is clear that it has failed in its mission, as municipalities are now introducing shared tours rather than dismantling them.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-454	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Persson, for a very important question about how we can strengthen and improve working conditions for all those who work in elderly care and actually in welfare! This is a very important starting point for the government. What the government has done in recent years is that we have contributed a great deal of resources to the well-being and made sure that elderly care and its staff are better placed. We have carried out inspections via, for example, the Swedish Work Environment Authority and pointed out the shortcomings that exist. This is an important part of the strategy that I presented earlier this year. The important role of the union here cannot be emphasized enough. It is about ensuring strong trade union organisations that, together with employers, can improve conditions. It is an important part of the Swedish model.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-458	Madam President, I would like Swedish unemployment has increased alarmingly in recent years, and Sweden is one of the countries that has succeeded the worst during the pandemic. Today, only three EU countries have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. We now also have higher unemployment than the EU average. This is something that has never happened before, since we joined the EU in 1995. We now also have record long-term unemployment. During the moderate-led alliance government, Sweden had the highest employment rate throughout the EU, and this was also true during the financial crisis. We have maintained this top position until now. Sweden is now slipping down in these statistics as well. Between 2014 and 2020, Sweden had the second worst employment performance in all EU countries. And in the latest figures from Eurostat, Sweden is no longer the best in the EU in terms of employment either. What does the Minister for Labour think is why everything has gone in the wrong direction in the Swedish labour market since 2014, i.e. during today's government?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-461	Madam President, I would like Sweden is at the top of the EU countries in terms of employment. Should Sweden be on the average in the EU, 450 000 fewer people would have gone to work this Thursday. This does not mean that the government is satisfied, and that is why we are also taking very strong measures in the budget and are both investing in the active labour market policy that we know works and providing new tools in the toolbox of the Employment Service and active labour market policy. I would like to conclude by saying that we are not creating more jobs by cutting down on labour market policies or on the support that job seekers receive. It is also important to have strong, well-functioning unemployment insurance. There the Moderates would really have to get up on the track.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-464	Madam President, I would like The government's climate policy is ambitious, diplomatically said, and Minister Stenevi recently announced that she wants to ban everything from petrol cars and aircraft to the concrete that is absolutely necessary for building wind turbines, for example. However, while the government wants to impose ruthless energy prices and depopulate Sweden's countryside, a recent decision has been taken to use Swedish tax money to build new motorways and upgraded airports in Greece via the EU's so-called recovery fund. This is a decision that does not really rhyme with climate policy in general. Moreover, the proportion of electric cars in Greece is only 1%. I would therefore like to ask Per Bolund how it may be that climate targets require us to stop driving and flying here, but allow us to fund more driving and more flying in other countries.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-467	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling does not properly account for the policy of either the government or the Green Party. It was very corrupting. It is nonsense that we should have proposed banning concrete. It's something that's completely out of the air. On the other hand, we want to be able to continue driving all over Sweden, in urban areas and also in rural areas, but to be able to do so with renewable Swedish-produced fuels instead of imported oil from, for example, Russia or for that matter with electricity. Sweden is best placed in the EU when it comes to introducing electric cars, and one in four cars sold now is an electric car. Ludvig Aspling may also have missed the fact that environmental policy is being tightened up in the EU as well. New ambitious environmental and climate objectives have now been adopted. The Swedish Democrats voted unsurprisingly against it, that is to say, they want lower ambitions. You don't want to do much. You simply do not care about either environmental or climate problems. There's something I'm sorry about. Sweden, on the other hand, has been a driving force for the transition to take place throughout the EU.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-471	Madam President, I would like As I said just before the break, there are 660 000 Swedes working abroad in the world. We want them to talk well about Sweden, about Swedish rules and about Swedish systems. They are good ambassadors for everything we need by spreading the image of Sweden as a good country to live in. That is why it is absurd, Madam President, with the rating system and the conversion of foreign grades, when we hopefully get families to move back to Sweden, as we really want. UHR, who makes this conversion or conversion of foreign Swedish youth's grades, says that it is the government that has commissioned UHR to assess grades from abroad so that they are equivalent and fairly assessed. The goal should be that everyone who applies for an education in Sweden should have the same chance to be admitted, regardless of which country they have their grades. Madam President, I would like The problem, however, is that of all Swedish young people who have gone to high school in the United States, 12 percent had A, i.e. the highest grade, in all subjects. In Swedish upper secondary school, on the other hand, among our Swedish young people, 0.3 per cent have the highest grades in all subjects. Due to the government's mission, UHR says that without an adjusted assessment of foreign grades, students who have attended Swedish upper secondary school could find it difficult to compete for places in popular higher education. But, Madam President, we have 400 000 higher education places, and I think there are about 1 000 students who have studied abroad and then apply to Swedish higher education institutions. Would it really be a problem that a large A in all subjects in the United States actually corresponds to a large A in Sweden as well? Is it really reasonable to do as we do in Sweden and count down their rating by 1 percent just because otherwise there would be more people who came in on American grades than in Swedish? This is a completely unreasonable way of thinking. A large A in all subjects in the United States must be a large A in all subjects even in Sweden. I would therefore like to hear what Minister Ernkrans thinks. Personally, I think that the Swedes who choose to move with the family to work in the United States may not actually meet the average in a Swedish school. It may not be so unnatural that many of those families have the highest rating in the United States and that it is therefore correct to count it down. In fact, it may be that it is often college - trained parents who choose to live in the United States. Surely families are often ambitious and strive for the best in school. I wonder how the Government views these issues, because I myself find it deeply unfortunate. We now have foreign Swedes who can speak ill of Sweden and who do not want to move back but choose to stay in the countries in which they live, precisely because they risk being treated unequally if they move back to Sweden.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-479	Madam President, I would like People should speak well of Sweden. People move around the world and between countries for various reasons. That's good. You should be able to live, live and study in different places in the world to build yourself stronger for the future. This applies, in particular, to young people. But for this very reason, that we want people to talk well about Sweden and that you should be treated with equivalence, I don't really think it is the Moderates who should decide whether a large A in the USA corresponds to a large A in the Swedish rating system. I think we have a good order, where we have an expert authority in the form of the UHR that is best placed to make the assessment in terms of the merit assessment of foreign grades. This includes determining how grades from a foreign education should be valued in relation to grades from the upper secondary school in Sweden. For the sake of equivalence, it is good to have an expert authority to do this. I think it's better than the Moderates to assess whether a large A in the United States corresponds to a large A in Sweden. During this year's review, UHR concluded that the grading distribution among those who applied to the university with upper secondary school grades from the USA was very different among applicants with a Swedish upper secondary school degree and has therefore made adjustments. The University is also part of the Swedish education system and builds on the Swedish upper secondary school. It is important that pupils from there are not given a worse chance than students from other countries of being admitted to higher education. Then we should also remember that the merit assessment of grades in Sweden can actually be changed, not only for people with foreign grades. This happened, for example, in the introduction of merit points that were applied for the first time when admission to university in autumn 2010. At that time, the merit rating for people who have attended upper secondary school before merit points were introduced meant that they were allowed to compete with people who have been able to maximize their merit points. Selection is therefore not a static process. When more people than the number of places available apply for higher education, we make a selection, and that's when merit matter. And the selection and the chances of these people are influenced by other applicants for the same education, how many they are and their merit values. Therefore, the UHR has prepared a recalculation table. The UHR is our expert authority in this regard. And I don't see at the moment any need to take action, although it was 1,174 people from the United States who applied to college in spring 2020 and 12 percent of them were people with the highest grades.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-486	Madam President, I would like It is the Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR, who answers that it is the government that has given them the task of assessing grades from abroad so that they are judged equally and fairly and that everyone who applies for an education in Sweden should have the same chance to be accepted regardless of the country in which they received their grades. But then they also do the interpretation that because it is 12 percent in the United States that has the highest rating, compared to 0.3 percent in Sweden, their rating automatically counts down a whole point. If you come with an A in all subjects from the USA it counts as 19 points in Sweden compared to if you have the highest rating in Sweden then it is 20 points. No, Madam President, it is not the Moderates who should grade students or do the conversion tables. But it is also not the Social Democrats who should do so, which the UHR now blames. I think this is completely unreasonable for most people. A shovel is supposed to be a shovel. An A in the USA is supposed to be an A in Sweden. I don't think it's weirder than that. I find this incomprehensible. The government stands here and talks about equal opportunities and equal opportunities. That's exactly what it's not now, but we're doing our own countdown just because otherwise there would be more people who came into educations with grades from the United States because it's a larger percentage who have the highest grades there. As a Swede, I'm ashamed. I want us to bring home our Swedish students who have lived abroad and been enriched and made contacts all over the world. I want them to be proud of Sweden and to come back to college here instead of choosing not to move back to Sweden because we have a completely incomprehensible system to discredit those who have chosen to go to a school in another country. It's embarrassing.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-491	Madam President, I would like I think there should be a level playing field. Our students who have attended the Swedish upper secondary school should not have a competitive disadvantage compared to others who have studied their education in another country – in this case the USA – in which the Moderates are very committed. I think there should be a level playing field. Students' merit should be assessed equally, whether they have read in the USA or in Sweden. And it is the UHR that is the expert authority and has the task to make this credit assessment based on the admission statistics that come. I think that's reasonable. I think that the Authority should make this assessment. It is not the Moderates who will decide whether an A in the United States corresponds to an A in the Swedish rating system. I think that would be unfair. There should be equal conditions, so that you can compete on equal terms in the selection to the university. In particular, it applies to our young people who have attended the Swedish upper secondary school, which our higher education is a continuation of. It is absolutely self-evident that it is within the mandate of the UHR to continuously evaluate and also assess these admission rules. The UHR is best placed to do this. I have more confidence in the UHR expert authority and their independent review of this than if the Moderates were responsible for assessing which grades were good enough. At this point, I do not intend to propose any changes to the authority's right of regulation in this area because we shall have an equivalent assessment of the merit value of our grade system, whether you have studied your education in Sweden or in the United States.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-495	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I intend to do to assist Sweden's municipalities in preventing the emergence of culture of silence within their activities. Let me be clear at the outset: that employees in the municipalities are being silenced and threatened in their professional activities is totally unacceptable, so that there are employees who do not dare to tell their employer about the pressure for fear of the threats being realised. This is an issue that needs to be highlighted and discussed in the public sphere. In our various roles, we need to pay attention to the destructive force of culture of silence and unauthorised influence. A culture of silence benefits only those who want to harm our society. If we pay attention and work together to tackle the problems, we can make it more difficult for the criminal forces. Because it is to a large extent a threat from criminals who try to prevent, among other things, other food processors and alcohol inspectors from carrying out controls. It can also be a question of pressure on individual civil servants in social services, for example, in order to influence their decisions. This is clear from the study on culture in the city of Gothenburg, to which Mr Rothenberg refers. The government carries out a priority work to reduce crime and increase security in society, and has, among other things, presented the 34-point programme against gang crime, where measures to break the culture of silence are an important part. Furthermore, action is needed not only against the crimes, but also against the causes of the crimes. The Government has therefore developed a national crime prevention programme – Together against crime – which aims to create the conditions for structured and long-term crime prevention work throughout society. The Crime Prevention Council, Brå, has received several assignments from the government. Brå has studied culture of silence vis-à-vis the judiciary t( Brå 2019:10). It also supports crime prevention actors at national, regional and local level and develops and disseminates basic training on crime prevention that will help to raise the level of knowledge and facilitate the coordination of crime prevention actors. Threats and violence, or the risk of being exposed to threats and violence in the workplace, are not only present within municipalities. Unfortunately, it also exists in other parts of society, which makes it a serious health and safety problem. Here employers have a great responsibility for the design of the workplace, training, support and guidance to prevent the risk of threats and violence as far as possible. The Government is particularly following the work of Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR, in the role of employer organisation. SKR works actively to support municipalities and regions in their work on preventive measures, care of victims, safety practices, action plans and training. In conclusion, I can see that a great deal is already being done in many places. The government continues to closely monitor the work done at local, regional and national level. The government and the state authorities also have close dialogue with SKR on these issues. Given the serious situation, we need to continue to make visible the problems that exist together.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. This noted report, commissioned by the City Council of Gothenburg, notes that there is a culture of silence in which municipal employees do not dare to address serious problems linked to extremism and organised crime. It also appears that staff are being silenced by their own managers. Among 200 interviewed social secretaries, youth workers and officials in municipal companies, many employees testify that managers higher up in the organization do not take their information about how criminals manifest their power seriously. This report is the clearest example of the staff's concern and of the widespread unwillingness of employees to report to the police what they are being subjected to or witnessed, for fear of reprisals by criminals or extremists. It's not supposed to be like this. They are also uncertain about the support they would receive from their own employer. Madam President, I would like Silence culture is a consequence of a failure to deal with crime. Municipal staff are afraid when they go to work, when they are at work and when they come home from work. It is about people with ordinary occupations who in their jobs meet people face-to-face on a daily basis. They are afraid of reprisals from criminals and afraid of not being supported by employers. This is totally untenable. It is no longer a big city phenomenon. This development is partly reminiscent of how Mexico fell into a swamp of everyday crime that destroyed public structures. The problems are spreading to smaller municipalities with even less capacity to deal with them, and we are today receiving reports of gunfire and explosions in cities such as Växjö and Kristianstad. These are cities in which it was never thought that such things could take place. Inga-Britt-Britt Ahlenius, a very well-known authority in Swedish public life, has written a chronicle about the culture of silence: They do not have the necessary structure and statute to carry out their comprehensive mission in an efficient and honest manner. ..................................................... Ahlenius proposes an independent audit when pressure and threats of violence have been allowed to continue for many years. A serious shift in standards has allowed criminal networks to infiltrate the city's activities. This is Gothenburg, what does it look like in other municipalities? ..................................................... All these problems that municipalities have, Madam President, are not a consequence of their own operation and decisions. They are a consequence of a national failed crime management policy. That's where the government has lost its grip. Gang crime has escalated to totally unsustainable levels, and it is hitting the municipalities hard. It hits the municipal employees hard, and it creates a culture of silence. General action does little to help; concrete solutions are needed. I look forward to the Minister in her next speech telling you what she intends to do in concrete terms to assist Sweden's municipalities in preventing the emergence of culture of silence within their activities and preventing a culture of silence from spreading throughout the country's municipalities.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-512	Madam President, I would like It is totally unacceptable to see culture of silence progress; it is a question of really reversing this trend. That is why, as I emphasised in my introduction, it is a joint responsibility both for the municipality as an employer, for the government in terms of providing conditions and for us together – trade unions and as a society – to ensure that we have proposals that are not only about reducing and reversing crime, but also about highlighting what is being done to actually deal with this in a good way. There are good examples in several districts in Gothenburg, I would say, which I think we can find different ways to spread. With regard to what the government has drawn attention to in the 34-point programme to break the culture of silence, it is, for example, to investigate a system for Crown Witnesses, to substantially increase the minimum penalty for legal abuse, to investigate an increase in the penalty for perjury and the protection of criminals, to review the protection and support of witnesses and their relatives, to investigate anonymous witnesses and to strengthen the witness protection programme. In view of the background I have from the municipal – I have been the municipal councillor and also the chairman of the SKR – I would also like to say that there is an active work going on that we in the state are doing together with SKR. It is precisely about working with and learning about what support is needed, as well as paying attention to this – and about having transparency and transparency. It matters very much what we do together to actually ensure that the good examples spread among employees. There is not a single solution; it is about being very clear that there are several different things that are needed. It is about legislation and prevention, but also about transparency and transparency. That is something that the government and I strongly support.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-517	Madam President, I would like This report is in many ways frightening reading. It is about employees in municipalities who do not dare or wish to express their views on their work situation and about criminal structures, which have a major impact on the city's activities, directly and indirectly interfering with daily work. It is about employees who hesitate to report an incident to which they witness or are themselves affected. Yeah, you're afraid of reprisals. It is the case that certain social standards are accepted in some areas but would not be accepted in other areas, and in some businesses it is common that there is a fear when going to work. Relating to criminal structures is a strategy for many employees in municipalities to manage their work. This creates a culture of silence that ultimately facilitates criminal activity. It is a consequence of government failure. I chose to take this interpellation debate with the responsible Minister of Local Government so that there will not be too much baton and blow up in the discussion. I think that this is the consequence that arises – that many employees, and many citizens, in the municipalities have to bear the consequences of this. I would like to say that I think it is good that the Minister is aware of the problems. It is good that the Minister agrees with the description of the problems. But if you do everything and it's not enough, maybe it's the wrong thing to do. Then the Minister must also realise that the efforts made have not been sufficient. Is it SKR and the Crime Prevention Council that are the keys to solving these problems for the municipalities? When I wrote the interpellation it was about Gothenburg and big cities, but today it is about medium-sized cities. It will soon be about smaller municipalities, and then whistleblowing works like that. Whistling is not effective at all times when the bladders are under pressure. In the case of the 34-point programme, it is reactive; it is trying to deal with problems that have arisen too long ago afterwards. Brå and SPR in all honour, but they will not solve the problems that municipal employees face daily. They can be involved in and eventually change the structures. However, this is about reading and understanding how parallel social systems work. Society does not currently have muscles that match crime, and that is why there must be power from outside that the municipalities do not have. That is why we need a Commission that describes the reality as it is now. The Minister says that the employer has a great responsibility for the design of the workplace and for training, support and supervision to prevent the risk of threats and violence as far as possible. Yes, to some extent there may be some management going to here – especially when it comes to employers being able to be the security for the employee they really should be – but the basic problem is that there is too much prank out there. Young people are recruited, almost headhuntas, in a very impressive way. Shootings and blasts are commonplace in many neighborhoods, structures are difficult to penetrate and there is the greatest possible silence. That is why my question is: the national responsibility to deal with crime, how can the municipalities be given that support – more than Brå and SKR?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-525	Madam President, I would like It is my absolute opinion, and also the view of the government, that we should provide the conditions necessary for us to be able to take the responsibility we are supposed to take. As far as crime prevention is concerned, the government, through the national level, bears a great deal of responsibility in terms of tools and to demonstrate a clear responsibility. How to solve this in practice must be close to the activities involved. It must be about those who have political responsibility at local level as employers having the ability and support to take this responsibility. It's about the employees feeling safe. It is about cooperation between employers and trade unions and about the fact that society's support is there. It is about cooperation with civil society, the police, the municipality and citizens. I am convinced that this is usually the best way to deal with these issues. I think a very important part of this is to note that this is a phenomenon. As I pointed out, there are good examples. We have seen, for example in a district in Gothenburg, that they have worked intensively on this. It is one way to see that it is possible to reverse the trend. I fully understand that this is a debate on the right path, but one must also learn from how a great deal of development has been turned around in many parts of the country, in several municipalities. What has been done there that has been good? Usually it is based precisely on this reciprocity and on lifting it up and being open and transparent. It is also a matter of being clear that this is an action plan in which we are transparent about what we are going to achieve and with this not being accepted. It is important to say this clearly and to be very concrete in action at local level. On the part of the government, we do not close doors if further support is needed or if additional methods are required to deal with this. Rather, it is the need to think flexibly and adapt it to a large or a small municipality. I think that there is a lot of good things that are now happening, together with the member organisation SKR, despite the problems that exist.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-531	Madam President, I would like "Unacceptable" and "unacceptable" are words that we have heard in many contexts. It is now unacceptable, because we cannot reconcile ourselves with the social development that we have today. Together? There are individual employees in municipalities who feel crowded, who get ring calls and who may be visited at times outside working hours when someone with a friendly voice points out that they know that the employee usually goes a certain way home. Then it becomes quiet. These individual employees have the government, society and the municipality a responsibility to manage. The municipalities currently account for 70 per cent of public activities. It's a very large part, but they're not equipped to face organized crime. It is a state responsibility, and that is where the government must move from words to action. Not closing any doors is extraordinary, but more is needed. I would have liked us in this debate to have more answers to what this would be. Kronwitnesses are good. Reduced minimum sentences and witness support are old classic moderate demands. It is a good thing that we are finally getting to grips with this – the problem is that it is too late. The spill-over effects will come in the future. We will face this in smaller municipalities. Here the government must take responsibility for its failure. Aggravated crime is an overall national social problem that is not affected by municipal borders. A Commission is not only reasonable; it is an obligation to set it up.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-536	Madam President, I would like I think it is very good that this type of issue is being addressed. What has happened in Gothenburg, with the report presented, I think is an injection that can be reversed. I also believe that the municipal authority in Gothenburg sees this. We will have slightly different views on ways forward to deal with this, but the fundamental thing – that the government takes responsibility by putting forward proposals for tightening up in several areas – is our responsibility. It is our responsibility to provide support to the municipalities to deal with this together with SKR. It is of great importance that we see that both in smaller and larger municipalities, we do very much to pay attention to this and to ensure that we protect employees and spread different examples of supervision support. This applies not least to social services, which for many years have had problems in several municipalities. This is perhaps also about an employee knowing people that it makes decisions about, which in itself can mean that the employee ends up in an odd situation. It plays a big role to continue working on this with conditions, where the government does a lot of work. I have not seen that we have received any other proposals that would lead in an even better direction. The prevention of crime is of great importance, as is the strengthening of crime prevention. Locally, it is still the case that you need to take a big responsibility, and we will work on that together with the municipalities.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-541	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren what measures the Minister and the Government intend to take to counteract the increase in physical and psychological violence and sexual abuse against children reported by the organisation Children's Right in Society, Bris. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The fact that children grow up with violence and abuse is unacceptable. Despite a clear objective that no child should be subjected to violence, too many people are affected. It is a failure for our society. Preventing and combating violence against children is therefore a high priority for the government. Both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Agenda 2030 make far-reaching demands to protect children against all forms of violence and abuse. Children who are still exposed are entitled to support and rehabilitation. Professionals working with children and children themselves need more knowledge about violence and sexual abuse, especially on the internet. In order to further strengthen the protection of children experiencing violence, the Government considers that coherent, long-term and strategic work is needed to ensure the rights of the child and to remedy what does not work in practice. Therefore, on 29 April 2021, the Government appointed a special investigator to submit proposals for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. The strategy will develop a holistic approach and allow a coherent approach to preventing and combating violence against children over the next ten years. The strategy will address the many forms of violence that children and young people of different ages can be exposed to today, such as violence in young people's partner relationships, sexual violence, violence between children and honour-related violence and repression. The investigator shall report on his/her duties by 31 May 2022. Increased protection for children and young people against violence is also central to the national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women in 2017 – 2026. More knowledge of occurrence, risk and safety factors is also needed to ensure that the most effective preventive measures are put in place. The Government continues to support research on violence against children, including the Foundation General Barnhuset's surveys of violence against children. Work on a new survey is ongoing and will be presented in 2023. In the near future, there have also been major changes to sexual crime legislation, and Sweden has now the most stringent legislation we have ever had. At the government's initiative, for example, the scale of penalties has been tightened for, among other things, gross rape of children, contacting to meet a child for sexual purposes, so-called grooming, and the exploitation of children through the purchase of sexual acts. Furthermore, the criminal liability for the grooming crime has been extended, inter alia to take place at an earlier stage. Moreover, since 1 July this year, it is punishable to expose a child to certain crimes, such as assault, in close relationship. The Covid-19 pandemic has brought major societal challenges and in many ways affected children's and young people's lives and everyday life. Children and young people who are in some way already exposed are at risk of being particularly affected. It is also important to continue to pay attention to those children and young people who are at increased risk of being subject to restrictions on rights and to ensure that they receive continuous support. Civil society organisations such as Bris play an important role here. The Government has allocated a total of SEK 330 million in 2020 and 2021 to non-profit organizations' work with violent women, children and LGBTQ i-persons, and against violence in close relationships, as well as children in vulnerable situations. The support will help to alleviate the increased vulnerability that can affect these groups due to the increased isolation which in turn can lead to increased prevalence of violence, control, honour-related violence and repression and abuse in the home. Finally, we can never accept the fact that children are subjected to violence. It therefore requires further action in several policy areas, and I am proud that the work on preventing and combating violence against children is a high priority for the government.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-552	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In connection with the children's rights in society, Bris, paying attention to their 50th birthday on 1 September, they wrote an article in the Gothenburg-Post entitled Violence against Children must be the top priority for each party. For half a century, Bris has done its utmost to listen to and be there for children who are in harm's way, while at the same time working to ensure that politics listens to children and promotes their rights in society. The article showed, among other things, that over the past five years calls to Bris from children about physical violence have increased by 97 percent, conversations about psychological violence by 114 percent and conversations about sexual abuse have increased by 107 percent. These are extremely depressing figures. The sharp increase, which has taken place under social democratic and environmental party rule, shows how the government has failed to protect Sweden's children and young people. In his article, Bris also wrote, "We need to give children more opportunity to talk about their situation and to seek support and protection ourselves – without parental consent." We need to feel and take joint responsibility for the situation and security of children and understand that we, each and every one of us, are precisely that important adult who can act to protect a child. ..................................................... Bris also welcomed the investigation that the Government has put in place on current proposals for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression, which is also of concern to the Government. I can also express myself in positive terms about the same. Instead, my criticism is based on why it took until 29 April this year for the government to set up the investigation. In all probability, the investigation will not be able to complete the final report so quickly that it is possible to get any new legislation or such things in place before the elections. This would mean that the government would have forsook the issue constantly throughout its eight years in power. There are, in my view, no excuses for that, Madam President. The destructive development highlighted by myself and Mr Bris could hardly have passed the government until April of this year. During Stefan Lövven's time in power, talks to Bris about physical violence, psychological violence and sexual abuse have all doubled. In turn, in the course of this development, the government has done nothing until the spring of the year when the investigation was set up. At least the problem has not been overcome. Madam President, I would like It's bad, it's really bad, and Märta Stenevi can't get away from that. Of course, if the government had taken children's well-being seriously, it would have acted a long time earlier. If so, we might not have seen the same disastrous developments in this area. My question in this first speech is therefore whether Märta Stenevi is satisfied with the developments that have taken place or whether she understands that the government could have done more.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-562	Madam President, I would like No one can be satisfied as long as our children are subjected to violence or sexual abuse in the physical world, online or in any other form. Nor can anyone be satisfied with the situation of children who are victims of honour-related violence and oppression. I am very proud that we are getting a national strategy in place because it gives us the opportunity to work on a long-term and systematic basis against violence against children. However, this does not mean that work has not taken place in the past, nor that much more needs to be done. The survey of violence against children that has been carried out in Sweden since 1981, where children, like the study we have talked about earlier from the Foundation General Barnhuset, where children are allowed to answer anonymously to questions about exposure to violence, shows that there was a sharp decline in physical punishment between 1980 and 2000. Since then, violence against children has stabilised at what is a low international level. The National Board of Health and Welfare's patient register also suggests that several forms of violence against children have decreased in Sweden, especially over a longer period of time. These are the effects of combinations of efforts, of legislation and of a broad societal debate on the problem of physical punishment. On the other hand, we see the increase in sexual abuse of children, not least online. According to the European Commission's strategy to combat child sexual abuse more effectively online, the number of reports has increased dramatically across Europe. And the increase seems to have been as dramatic globally. The study Youth, Sex and the Internet after Metoo also points out that an increased proportion of young people who have had sex online feel pressured or forced. This is an enormous problem that we need to deal with. The exposure of children to violence is unacceptable, and the government has a clear objective that no child should be subjected to violence. Increased protection for children and young people against violence is also at the heart of the national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women in 2017 – 2026. Combating violence in young relationships is also a stated important goal for the government. During 2020 – 2022, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has the Government's mission to allocate funds to municipalities to develop the work of social services and healthcare to combat violence in close relationships, sexual violence, honor-related violence and repression, and also to support the work of adults and children in prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes. There are a number of missions and a series of works that have been done, but I would also like to point out what is going to come forward. Part of the 40-point programme against men's violence against women announced by the government, and which we could also present funds for on Monday, means that we are investigating whether children's criminal protection against sexual abuse should be further strengthened. It also sheds particular light on violence in young couples. All in all, a great deal is done, but as a direct answer to the honourable Member's question: No, I will never be satisfied and will never be satisfied until no child in our country gets hurt. Therefore, the work must be continuously intensified, developed and continued in order for all children in our country to live safely and grow up without threats, coercion or violence.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-572	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Government for its answer. I am pleased that the Government acknowledges that she is not satisfied with the work that the Government has done in this area, because it would have been sad if this were the case in the light of Bris reporting that physical, sexual and psychological violence has increased by more than 100% over the last five years. It is therefore good that the government is not satisfied with its work. My question also concerned how it is that the reporting on a national aggregate strategy has not been put in place in the past. It will not finalize until 31 May next year, and it wants much more so that we can get a bill on the table and stick it in Parliament before next year's elections. This means that the government has not been able to put it in place for eight years in power. I'd like to hear the Government develop it. It is also important to stress in particular that many of the children and young people who are suffering today are doing so as a consequence of the increasing pressure of honour that we see in Swedish society. This, in turn, is a direct consequence of uncontrolled immigration into Sweden where we have not made sufficient demands on those who have arrived, which has led to a situation in which one lives with customs, standards and practices from the home country which, in comparison with the Swedish ones, have been updated for a number of hundred years. This is a growing concern. Today we see how every summer vacation carries the risk of young women being married away. Schools and municipalities warn of this and ask that you report if a schoolmate is missing when the school starts. We know that tens of thousands of young people have been maimed against their will. We have had a number of so-called balcony girls this year, and although all the reasons behind it are not investigated, it is a relatively new phenomenon that should never have been established here in Sweden. Some of the oppression of honour takes place within what is described in different contexts as clans, such as a family-based structure in which a patriarch or matriarch is head and directs and directs the others and decides over career choices and over which grandchild is to do what, decides dress, arranges marriage and commits himself criminally and forces the rest of the clan or family to do the same. This is a growing problem. As recently as a few days ago we could see how it came out in big fights outside the hospital in Lund when two clans tried to resolve a conflict – a conflict that has now been communicated should be investigated through a so-called clan negotiator. In all this chaos and against the background of the disorder and social problems created as a consequence of the empire of the clans in Sweden, Märta Stenevi felt yesterday that it was appropriate to describe that she herself is a part of a clan, and she described herself as the matriarch in it. Much more she didn't nuance the whole thing, and I don't know what the clan is doing or who it involves. However, I am firmly convinced that some children in Sweden are suffering as a consequence of the clan system. Had Sweden not had clans, definitely fewer children would have suffered, but despite that Märta Stenevi chooses to ralinate about this. Why?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-580	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that it was a very unfortunate thing to say. I see organised crime, regardless of the structures behind it, as an enormous problem in our society. If we are to be able to work against violence against children, vulnerability and, for that matter, climate crisis, we must have security in our society. The practice of violence and hatred by the gangs is unacceptable and must be crushed at all costs. It is a central priority for both me and the Green Party. Let me also be crystal clear on another point. As long as society fails to protect all children from violence, it is a major failure. Over the years, the government has done much to combat honour-related violence and oppression. For the government, this is a high priority area, and a wide range of actions have also been carried out. Let me mention a few. The work against honour-related violence and repression needs to be conducted in the long term and with stable conditions. As part of this, the government has permanent competence team against honour-related violence and repression at Östergötland County Administrative Board, which thus becomes a national competence center against honor-related violence and oppression. The government has also permanently financed the county boards for their work to combat men's violence against women at regional level. The work of the county administrative boards includes supporting the development of regional resource centres where efforts for children and adults who are vulnerable or at risk of being subjected to honour-related violence and repression are gathered. The government has also strengthened criminal protection against honour-related crime. For example, on 1 July 2020, a new crime, child marriage crimes, was introduced, which can give a maximum of four years in prison and also a new tool, an exit ban, to protect children from being taken abroad for the purpose of child marriage or sexual mutilation. There has also been a special penalty for crimes with honorary motives. In order to prevent standards of honour and to ensure that victims receive the support and protection to which they are entitled, it is also important that professionals have access to the right information, tools and expertise regarding existing legislation. Understanding the role of the family in repression and how legislation can be used to protect against the violence and oppression of the family needs to be known to all staff. This involves, for example, developing procedures and guidelines for how professionals in school and social services should act when children are at risk of being taken abroad to be married away. The Government has therefore decided on a special initiative to increase competence in honor-related violence and repression, and SEK 180 million will be allocated for this purpose in 2021. A number of assignments have been given to various authorities, such as a mission to strengthen and develop supervision of the work of social services and health care against men's violence against women, violence in close relationships and honour-related violence and repression. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been commissioned to strengthen the systematic work against honour-related violence and oppression in schools and preschools. In addition, there is an agency-wide mission in which several authorities will implement measures to prevent and combat genital mutilation of girls and women. Genital mutilation of girls and women is a very serious violation that causes great suffering and is an expression of honour-related violence and oppression. Finally, I will mention the mission to MUCF to develop and disseminate knowledge base with a focus on honour-related violence and repression and on violence prevention work aimed at leisure leaders and other professionals so that they can work with children both inside and outside the school. I could mention a number of other measures, but I will stay there when my speaking time is up.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-592	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Government for its answer. Many of the proposals mentioned by the Government are, of course, also appreciated by me and my fellow party members. There may, of course, be differences and opinions that some measures should have come into place earlier, but on the whole, hopefully all parties are asking for a better standard of living and the environment for children and young people in Sweden. It is a great deal of the Government to admit that it was bulked in yesterday's party leader debate. If anyone knows that words can be slipped or worded inadequately at times. Of course, so have I and my colleagues. I still find it troubling to take so lightly to throw away the term clan. Children and young people who today are restricted by honorary oppression as a consequence of being born into a clan do not think it is a simple mistake. After all, it was part of a longer line of reasoning put forward by the Government and not just a misalignment or misuse of a word. The question remains: Which clan did the Government refer to? There must have been a thought behind this, and I would like to hear it. I don't blame the Government for anything, but I think there was a miscommunication. But we have had a debate in Sweden about the influence of clans on politics and the ambition to infiltrate politics, and there have been examples of people who have been pointed out as representatives of clan interests at different levels in public Sweden. Against this background, it becomes even more troublesome to identify yourself as part of a clan, so which one is it?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-597	Mr. Old President! We have a great deal of work ahead of us in destroying gangs, organised crime and the criminal structures that hold entire areas hostage. We also have a great deal of work ahead of us in stopping honour-related violence and repression against the girls and women who suffer in these structures. And we have a great deal of work ahead of us in breaking men's violence against women once and for all. Yet it was very quiet in this House during the party leader debate yesterday. All the parties that last April were filled with holy anger over how five women were murdered in three weeks yesterday were silent. From the opposition, it was crazy silence when it came to men's violence against women, violence in close relations and honour-related violence and oppression. That's how far the commitment went. My commitment to children and my commitment to women in vulnerability will never end. On Monday I was able to present the first permanent and long-term effort to work against men's violence against women. We will work every day to break the structures that keep girls and women in oppression, sexual abuse and harassment in the workplace and to counter all online hatred and threats that affect women every day and all the abuses that affect women, from families, from leading representatives, from elected representatives and from employers. I will never stop my commitment to keeping women and children safe and protected in this country.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-600	Mr. Old President! Roger Haddad has asked me what concrete measures the government intends to put forward in the autumn to reverse the fact that the unemployment rate of women born abroad is today significantly higher than the corresponding figure for women born in the country and what I intend to do in concrete terms to speed up the establishment of women in the labour market who are particularly affected by the exclusion caused by unemployment being particularly severe and high in certain areas of Sweden. The establishment policy shall be equal. Women and men must meet the same high expectations, demands and support. It is crucial that more women born abroad enter the labour market, and that is why the government has been working systematically on this since the last parliamentary term. In other words, I share Roger Haddad's concern about the employment gap both between domestic and foreign born and between foreign born women and men. Labour market policy measures are not on an equal footing today, and it is a problem that foreign-born women's entry into the labour market is too slow. The Government has therefore made gender equality a priority in the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen during this and previous terms of office. We have, among other things, given the agency an overall mission that gender equality should be included in decision-making at all levels. The government has also identified specific labour market policies where the agency will work more to get further and achieve concrete results. This involves, for example, increasing gender equality in labour market training, but also in the establishment programme. We have particularly highlighted foreign born in this mission. Now that we are reforming the Swedish Public Employment Service, the agency has been tasked with including a gender perspective in its preparatory work. In order to succeed, we must maintain equality as a priority and work on the issue in the long term. The Employment Service has recently re-reported a plan of measures for 2022 – 20 25. Many important steps towards better integration were also taken during the previous parliamentary term. Among other things, it introduced b disorders, so that the reception of new arrivals is controlled on the basis of conditions to get into work. We reformed Arbetsförmedlingen's start-up assignment to make the establishment of newcomers more efficient, especially women's. The government has also set up a commission for equal income in order to increase economic equality between women and men in the long term. The county administrative boards have been tasked with collecting and disseminating good examples of outreach and motivating work in order to reach foreign-born women who are far from the labour market. In other words, I do not share the honourable Member's view of slow action by the government. The mandate of the Gender Equality Agency is far from the first measure taken to improve the establishment of women born abroad in the labour market. Just as Roger Haddad writes in his interpellation, a successful policy of establishment requires strong and broad action. The budget proposal for 2022 includes reinforcements in employment policy for a total of SEK 8 billion. The Government is investing a total of almost SEK 21⁄2 billion in efforts for job seekers. The actions will contribute to improved matching and prevent long-term unemployment from remaining at a higher level. We propose, among other things, an investment in extra services and introductory jobs for those who are furthest from the labour market. Extra services and introductory jobs can create jobs for newcomers and the long-term unemployed, not least for women born abroad, and increase employment opportunities. The government also continues to extend the knowledge lift in Komvux, the University of Applied Sciences, the Folkhögskolan and the University to over 160 000 places in 2022. We propose that SEK 1.5 billion be allocated in 2022 to 14 000 places in combined training courses, where vocational training is combined with SFI or Swedish as a second language. In order to shorten the way to work, we also propose that municipalities offer initial mapping and validation within Komvux and that the study activities with mapping and validation within Komvux should continue until 1 July 2023. Funds are also provided for early intervention for asylum seekers with several aspects, including social information on gender equality. In order to specifically strengthen women's opportunities for work, we suggest that the initiative in Swedish for parental leave be extended. The Government's action plan to reduce and counteract segregation points out that unemployment contributes to a large extent to segregation. One of the most important efforts to reduce segregation is because everyone who can work has a job to go to. Overall, the measures taken by this government and now proposed by this government can contribute to an increased employment rate for women born abroad. The government will continue to monitor closely developments in the labour market for women born abroad.
i-8vqoVhMmdP3RRWQNz9VpjB	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister Märta Stenevi, for the answer to my interpellation! Liberals have repeatedly for many years raised the issue of the situation of women born abroad in the labour market in general in terms of segregation and exclusion. It is extremely worrying when we now see, most recently in the Employment Service forecast, that we are approaching 200 000 long-term unemployed. More than half of those enrolled in the Employment Service were born outside Europe, and more than half of the long-term unemployed have been outside the labour market for more than two years. Unfortunately, foreign-born women are over-represented in these statistics. I note that the Government says in its reply that it has given assignments – competence assignments – and a priority to the Public Employment Service. At the same time, I have to say that I am disappointed that the Employment Service and the reform of gender equality work have not gone any further when it is aimed at foreign-born women, when it re-sets or procures its programmes against women-dominated occupations, etc. We had precisely these problem areas and this discussion five, six, seven, eight and nine years ago. Here we are again, Mr President-in-Office, discussing with the government, stating that foreign-born women have a long way to go in order to enter the labour market. Therefore, the mission to the Equality Agency that came the other day is not enough. This is not the first time that the government has given tasks in this direction to the authorities. As early as autumn 2014, a delegation was appointed to work against segregation and also against youth unemployment and was then given a complementary assignment to work with newly arrived and foreign-born women. So it's already been working for six years. Then the question to the government and the government is: What have they done? Where are the reforms? How is it that the government once again feels compelled to give this type of mission? It is clear that it has not been delivered. Is there any self-criticism from the government? Does the Government, which is responsible for both equality and segregation, think that this is acceptable?
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-617	Mr. Old President! The fact that we have a large group of long-term unemployed women born abroad is a huge problem that we need to tackle. Every person, every woman, in this country needs the freedom to have one's own income and a job to go to. It is also something that the government, together with the Liberals, has worked to overcome within the framework of the January Agreement. What we can say is that the effects of covid-19 have led us to a worse starting point than we had before then. Large parts of the labour market have rapidly recovered from the pandemic, but the long-term unemployed, not least women born abroad, are in a worrying situation because they have had a longer way back. Much has been done. We have launched a number of reforms. I would like to mention a few. The settlement law I've been short on. There is a system in place now for early intervention during the period of asylum to promote future establishment. Changes in parental insurance have been implemented, as have several initiatives to strengthen the school's work with newly arrived pupils. We have reformed the start-up assignment with the ambition to give Arbetsförmedlingen greater freedom to design the length, scope and focus of the start-up efforts based on the individual's conditions and needs. Gender equality has been prioritised in the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen, and there is also a self-initiated ESF project that started in 2018 and continued until August 2021. The planned final report of this is at the end of 2021. I look forward to that very much. I want to make it very clear that the mission to the Equality Agency is in no way a starting point. However, I see a need for us to constantly develop and strengthen our work until we have a situation where all people who can work also have a job to go to. The mandate of the Equality Agency is one way of tackling the problems from one side, but it is far from the only one, and that is far from the first.
i-9f3zqF6d9PZUJ9tQdqK3kk	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have a marked increase in long-term unemployment, and those who are unfortunately affected are precisely foreign-born women with short or no education and poor knowledge of the Swedish language. Domestic born women have an employment rate of over 80 per cent while foreign born women are just under 60 per cent. So it is a huge gap, and it is a failure for the whole of society. In the light of the discussion referred to in the previous debate, as a Liberal, I do not think it is satisfactory that the Swedish Minister for Gender Equality, in his statements yesterday on clans, said that he belonged to a clan. It also bears on this debate, Mr President-in-Office, because we are talking about segregated and vulnerable areas. Does the Government know what it looks like when it comes to vulnerable areas? Does the Government know how many vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas we have in Sweden where this particular problem of domestic extremism, radicalisation, exclusion and inequality is a growing problem? I think it's a slap in the face of everyone who works with gender equality that Sweden's gender equality minister says she belongs to a clan. Mr. Old President! In the years that I have worked in the Committee on Justice and most recently in the Committee on Education, we, as Liberals, have fought against clan society every day. Klaner, in the context that they were debated yesterday, i.e. linked to exclusion and crime, counteracts gender equality. They're countering democracy. They counteract women's liberation. They do not want boys and girls to be taught music, sports and religion in school. In the Gothenburg area, for example, parents who have this clan thinking have advocated gender-disaggregated education for decades. In Swedish schools, in Sweden, in publicly funded schools, this clan thinking has actually had an impact in violation of Swedish values, Swedish school law and our Swedish gender equality policy. I think it is wrong for a Swedish gender equality minister to stand in Parliament and say that they belong to a clan, because it counteracts and counteracts everything that the Liberals stand for and that I hope more parties in the Swedish Parliament also actively fight for every day. This is also linked to labour market policy. According to clan thinking and in these radical environments, Somali women are not allowed to educate themselves. True, a few can attend adult education, which is a prerequisite for getting a job, but as soon as it comes to practice and the woman is going to go to practical steps and do six months of practice, there are men who refuse to do so and keep their wife at home and tell her that she cannot attend the practical stages of education. It's clan thinking. There are several examples where association support goes to men and organisations for men. I met a Somali woman just before the summer talking about insecurity, insecurity and exclusion. At the time we also talked about the association support and support from society to lift up the security work. Then she said that everything is usually directed at the men. Don't involve men – they always get education before us, they get better support at Arbetsförmedlingen and they also get better support from civil society," she said. This is a sign that the clan structure and the patriarchal also affect the women who actually want to get out of this. I sincerely hope that the Government will withdraw its statement, Mr President-in-Office, because it has a direct impact on the debate on segregation and exclusion in working life too.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-632	Mr. Old President! That was a very unfortunate statement by me in the debate yesterday. It does not reduce the work of breaking with honor-related violence and oppression. During my time as Municipal Commissioner in Malmö and during my time as Minister, although it is not so long, I have had a complete focus on breaking with the honour-related violence and repression directed at children, women, LGBTI people and everyone else who suffers from these family-based structures that oppress and hold people back. So let me be extremely clear that this is a work that the government has been prioritising for a long time, which has a terribly high priority in the government and which will continue to have a high priority in the government. Since the pandemic came, the long-term unemployment rate of women born abroad has been stronger than that of other groups. It is precisely the low level of education and home care with children that has a major impact on this, which is why one of the efforts I have mentioned before is to continue language development during parental leave. I would like to take this opportunity to mention other measures that are being taken to achieve a better balance in the labour market after the crisis. In the budget proposal for 2022, the government will propose reinforcements of SEK 8 billion in employment policy. It concerns both the labour market and education side. One of these is matching services that are aimed at broad groups of jobseekers and are introduced gradually across the country and where those who need support to find a job or start studying should receive individually adapted activities. It can be about getting in touch with employers, getting support to find and apply for jobs and getting information about educational opportunities, guidance and shorter courses. It is also about extra services and introductory jobs. As I said, long-term unemployment has risen in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic, and it is now at risk of getting stuck at high levels, not least for women born abroad. We therefore propose in the budget proposal an investment of SEK 700 million in 2022 so that those who are furthest from the labour market will also have access to additional services and introductory jobs. An additional service, which I think the honourable Member is well aware of, is a job of an employer in the welfare sector, in the public, cultural or non-profit sector, who is subsidised at 100% of the employer's cost. Introduction jobs are subsidised at 80 per cent of the employer's cost and are possible in both private and public activities. Both of these forms aim to provide an introduction to the labour market and a contact with society in order to lead to their own employment later on. I would also like to mention work placements. In order for people who have become unemployed but are not yet qualified for the guarantee programmes to increase their chances of entering the labour market, the government proposes to strengthen funds for the Employment Service for work placements. Job seekers will then have the opportunity to test a job, strengthen their network of contacts or demonstrate their skills to an employer. We are also investing in labour market training. As the honourable Member points out, many job seekers lack the skills required in the labour market and need to replenish their skills or learn what is needed to work in a shortage profession. Labour market training thus increases job opportunities for job seekers while helping to solve employers' recruitment needs. We therefore propose that SEK 425 million be added in order for more jobseekers to receive labour market training.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-640	Mr. Old President! In the interpellation response from the government, we were told that steam important steps for better integration were also taken during the previous parliamentary term. The message is that it's moving in the right direction. Unfortunately, I would like to give another picture. The number of vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas has increased. In 2015, there were 53 areas. Now we are in 61 areas where the situation is so serious that it can be a culture of silence, radicalisation, extremism and exclusion. It is mainly children and not least women who are affected by exclusion, Mr. President of the Age. I've previously worked with penalty scales and police operations. The difference in this debate is that it concerns activities that are close to these women. It is school, education, preschool, Swedish education and how society's support works directly to them through Arbetsförmedlingen. It is therefore important that we better adapt our policies so that they are better supported and can emerge from freedom and exclusion. Mr. Old President! In conclusion, I would like to say that the choice of words is extremely important and gives a strong signal, especially when they come from the Swedish Minister for Gender Equality in such a context as during the party leader debate. The women we are trying to help to become free, through proper equality for them too, so that they can enter the labour market, should not have to hear such categorical statements from the Government's Minister for Gender Equality. I think it is counterproductive for Sweden's gender equality and integration work.
i-cc007cc5a6fa49d8-644	Mr. Old President! I will continue my work on gender equality everywhere, including in the field of establishment policy. I will continue tirelessly the work of every woman's freedom and security that has guided me throughout my political career. I will continue the work of every child's security and freedom which led me nine years ago to choose to engage in party politics. I will never stop doing that. I will continue the work of breaking the honour-related violence and repression so that every girl and woman in this country has her full freedom to decide over her body, over her time and over the choices she makes in life. I will continue to work tirelessly against men's violence against women in a broad perspective, both violence in close relationships as well as honor-related violence and oppression and violence between young people in relationships. I will never ever back down in this work. As far as the establishment policy is concerned, women and men must be met with the same expectations, demands and – I would like to emphasise this very much – support. More foreign born women should enter the labour market, be able to support themselves, stand on their own feet and thus also have the opportunity, if one chooses, to leave destructive relationships and destructive structures. This government and I have worked for for many years through several reforms and several initiatives. And we will continue to take the necessary steps to increase the empowerment of more, for women and men, and for foreign and domestic born. It is a job that I will never cease to fight for.
