i-84127737242618d4-5	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in this report. It is a reservation that rests on a exercise from the general exercise time. It therefore has no budgetary impact on Category 2. Otherwise, I intend to present the policy of the Swedish Democrats in this area, but with the historic budget decision in which the common budgetary policy of the Swedish Democrats, Christian Democrats and Moderates was voted through in the Swedish Parliament, we therefore have no reservation in this respect with a budgetary impact on expenditure. Madam President, I would like The authorities in this area of expenditure have the task of analysing, forecasting and compiling information on reforms, state finances and socio-economic developments. The authorities are currently doing a good job and, therefore, the policy direction should continue to be to maintain the funding of the agencies' activities so that they can continue along the path of good government, supervision and control in the future. One of the authorities that has an important social task is the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, which works for financial stability and a strong level of consumer protection. Within the framework of the work of the Authority, they have set up an Innovation Centre whose main task is to provide guidance on financial regulations to companies engaged in innovation activities. The starting point for the work is to create a platform for knowledge sharing for companies that, for example, are uncertain about permits and regulations. Better guidance thus reduces the risk that regulation and supervision would be the obstacle to financial innovation. However, the Swedish Democrats see a risk that a lack of funding by the agency would lead to an out-of-date regulatory framework that is not adapted to the pace of innovation in the Swedish fintech sector. Several Swedish actors are at the forefront of the ongoing technology shift, which leads to a high demand for Finansinspektionen's expertise and experience. The supply of financial services is increasing, and everything suggests that innovation in this area will continue at an unabated pace. In order to meet the demand from Swedish companies, Finansinspektionen is in need of an increase in funding, which the Swedish Democrats budget for in our own draft budget. Mr President, I would like to In 2020, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority – as in all economic crises – was given a very important not to say crucial role. During the pandemic year 2020 we had major falls on the world's stock exchanges, and about the same time the Swedish credit market froze. The reason for the situation in the credit market was the lack of liquidity, i.e. that many, due to the strong stock exchanges, tried at the same time to dispose of their holdings in a credit market which was largely without buyers and could therefore not properly price the assets. Small savers then experienced difficulties in liquidating their positions, and companies could not finance themselves by issuing new bonds. In the long run, a poorly functioning credit market would also pose a risk to financial stability as companies would then become more dependent on bank financing, which is already the main source of finance for Swedish companies. From an international perspective, the Swedish situation in the credit market during the pandemic was almost unique, although the risks have been known since before. The last time the credit market experienced widespread withdrawals was in connection with Brexit in 2016 and the financial crisis in 2008. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, has pointed out these risks and said that it wants reforms to improve liquidity in the credit market. Both the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen have addressed the problem, the Riksbank as late as last week. What I want to come to, Mr President, is that in last year's debate on this area of expenditure, I highlighted precisely this problem and that the Swedish Democrats therefore wanted to commission Finansinspektionen to set up a modernised system of increased digital transparency in order to make visible the liquidity risks that I have just described. This year, however, we have removed this specific paragraph from our committee motion, as Finansinspektionen has initiated a work and developed self-regulation together with industry organisations in order to increase transparency in the bond market. In conclusion, therefore, I just want to lift my hat because the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority is sensitive to its environment. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the committee colleagues and the cabinet a very happy Christmas and a happy New Year!
i-84127737242618d4-16	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to wish the President and the Chamber Office a Merry Christmas. Thanks for the nice and professional work! We're talking about Category 2, and what I was going to talk about was the work against money laundering. More and more people are talking about tougher and tougher penalties, increased resources and more employees in different places when it comes to working against gang crime. The last thing we heard was the play yesterday, where children were even to be listened to. Borders are constantly moving. However, the work against money laundering, which is a basis for the whole gang crime, gets very little space in this debate. Nevertheless, economic crime is at the heart of what is going on. Although the work against money laundering has been strengthened for a number of years and Finansinspektionen has gone from eight people who worked with money laundering in 2016 to twenty people in 2020, no one can claim that there is just some overstaffing on that unit. Sweden, compared to many other countries and definitely in relation to the size of our financial sector, is a country that spends relatively little resources on the direct work against money laundering. Sweden's financial inspection has 1.9 employees per million inhabitants. Denmark has twice as many and the Netherlands has more than that. France is also much better and has more than twice as many as Sweden. Iceland actually has 11 times more employees working against money laundering than Sweden's Financial Inspection has. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority still oversees 2 000 operators and spends 80% of its budget on supervision. However, only 5% of that budget goes to the direct work against money laundering. Of course, there is work on other units that support this work, such as regulations and permits. Yet I do not think anyone can say that it feels like a sufficient budget for something as central as the work against the financial crime of money laundering. There has also been a high staff turnover at Finansinspektionen for many years. But fortunately, it is now at the same level as in the rest of the state. However, it is higher than in the Swedish National Debt Office and in the Riksbank. This has also weakened as there has been constant training of new people, while routines and capacity have been lost. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has received reinforcements and greater resources, and the work has been developed. A collaboration has been initiated with the Police Authority to make a more intensive and developing investigation work against the largest money transfers. However, we in the Left Party believe that more resources are needed in the fight against money laundering, and we therefore add another 10 million to our budget option. Finally, I believe that the work against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and hence the work against financial crime, where gang crime is a key element, needs to be strengthened and coordinated. We believe that the work going on in the Netherlands should be a model for Sweden. It has coordinated all its various anti-money laundering services. Here, too, the work is divided into several units. We simply believe that coordination leads to a strengthening, more knowledge and more advice to those who should know their customers, recognize patterns and so on. There's a special prosecutor, and part of the police department is working against money laundering. We believe that it would be a strength in this context, and we believe that Sweden should look more at how to work in the Netherlands to develop the work more at home in Sweden. Important steps have been taken, but there is still some way to go. We may never catch up. The work against money laundering is a bit like the work against doping. As we move our positions forward, they take the next step. It is therefore a good thing that cooperation has developed, but the forces need to be brought together more centrally. Mr President, I would like to I thank the staff of the secretariat, who are very professional, and the members of the committee, and wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-8wLNsJtGdv4iVAwctWiWWG	Mr President, I would like to Parliament decides on the state budget in two steps. First, the framework is decided. Then decisions are taken on the 27 areas of expenditure in the budget. The first decision was taken on 24 November in the autumn. Since then, debates have been going on in the respective areas of expenditure during the autumn. These are the two steps in the budgetary process we have in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. The policy orientation with the objectives of safeguarding financial stability, high confidence, well-functioning markets, a high level of consumer protection and the financial system contributing to sustainable development remains unchanged. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats presented a joint proposal for a state budget during the autumn. It won over the government's draft state budget. This means that next year our economic policy will guide Sweden, and that means that we can invest more money in more police officers and better paid police officers. This enables us to deal seriously with the serious crime that is rampant in our country. We are also lowering taxes on pensioners. It will pay, Mr President, to have worked in Sweden. We also lower taxes for those who work because it will also pay off to get up in the morning and go to work. We also lower taxes on petrol and diesel. It is not reasonable that Sweden has the highest diesel price worldwide in a country with long distances, where people depend on the car to get to and from work. We are also making efforts to reduce climate emissions when we take such measures. Mr President, I would like to I would like to wish the President, the President's Office, the staff of the Finance Committee, the colleagues of the Finance Committee and all of you who follow and listen to the debate a really happy Christmas and a happy New Year. We hope, Mr President, that this Coronae country will end next year.
i-84127737242618d4-33	Mr President, I would like to The general contribution to municipalities is the title of this debate. Behind the perhaps a bit boring headline is something fantastic, namely the Swedish welfare model. This concerns the state's contribution to municipalities and regions in order for them to pass school, care for the elderly and health care. It is also important that there are equal economic conditions for prosperity to be strong throughout the country. Decisions should be made as close to people as possible. In Sweden there is a long tradition of local influence and self-government. Municipalities and regions are free to decide for themselves how their activities are to be carried out under existing legislation. The municipal self-government leads to a more efficient operation because the self-government provides the conditions for greater flexibility and better adaptability based on local conditions. About two thirds of municipal activity is financed by local tax revenues. In addition to tax revenues, the state contribution is the main source of revenue and is crucial to the financing of welfare. Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid the pandemic isn't over. It's gonna take time. The situation is still very uncertain. At the same time, the economy is recovering strongly. More are coming back to work. The Coronandem has challenged the whole community. In particular, municipalities and regions have had to change at a very fast pace. They have cared for the sick, protected the elderly and risk groups from becoming infected, and managed the anxiety and stress that citizens and staff have felt while planning for distance learning. From the government's side, the message has been clear. Lack of money must not, will not and should not stand in the way of protecting life and health. Municipalities and regions have received historical contributions to compensate for the tax loss and to support important activities. According to Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, the state subsidies have provided good economic conditions for the local government sector to manage the pandemic with financial security. We have compensated more than three times the estimated tax loss for both 2020 and 2021. We have stood up and continue to stand up for the local government sector. However, differences in welfare have become evident during the pandemic, and hopefully more of us are seeing and wanting to address the challenges facing society. When the pandemic is over, we will build our common society stronger, and by investing in welfare we can shorten care queues, work preventively so that more people will not get into crime and take the lead in climate change. A generous and shared well-being strengthens not only equality and equality, but also the economy at the same time. Mr President, I would like to For almost 20 years, I've been working as a social security secretary, a fielder and a school counselor. You can see in reality how well-being makes a difference for people, but you can also see the backsides of welfare and how contractions affect people. To get involved politically was for me then of course. My commitment to welfare and to every child's right to a good upbringing was and is strong. It was also self-evident for me to be committed to the Social Democrats. An equal welfare that benefits everyone and provides the conditions for equality is at the heart of the Social Democracy. What about the chances of coping with welfare? Yes, the municipalities and regions have been given more resources. General government subsidies increased by nearly 41 billion last year. But the conditions are not equal. The differences between municipalities and regions remain large, too large, and have unfortunately also increased. It may be because of long distances in a municipality, that the population composition has changed or other things that cannot be affected. We have taken decisions to reduce the differences with cost equalisation. More attention is now being paid to sparseness and socio-economic factors such as educational attainment and income. But that's not enough. That is why in our budget we add extra money to smaller municipalities and municipalities that have special challenges. It's important for the whole country to live. In the long term, we need to review the levelling-up system further for more equal opportunities for municipalities. At the same time, we need to continue to increase general state subsidies, which allow for adaptation to local and regional needs. The general state contribution shall be the starting point for the economic governance of the local government sector. General government grants make it possible to adapt to local and regional needs, which is considered to be particularly important when the challenges are great, while at the same time they differ between municipalities and between regions. To a certain extent, targeted state grants will always be needed for specific areas with high development needs, to compensate for specific commitments or, if specific needs such as during the pandemic. However, it is more difficult for some municipalities to apply for and receive targeted state subsidies, and this increases inequalities. That is why we need to continue our efforts to increase general state subsidies. Mr President, I would like to What, then, has been the impact on welfare? Over 100 000 more people in welfare during the previous term of office, the fact that children's groups in preschool have been the smallest since 1992, 31 000 more employees in school and that school results are turning upwards, a historic and long-term investment in care for the elderly and an elderly in order to increase skills in care for the elderly, increased support for victims of crime, 10 000 more police workers to 2024 and efforts to prevent recruitment. It's not enough just to be hard on the crimes-- that's what the police mean. We also need to work preventively. Now we will continue to stand up for welfare and an equal society where all municipalities and regions have the opportunity to offer their residents a good school and care and where all people have equal opportunities to create a good life. Mr President, I would like to Parliament has decided on the budget for next year. It is a strong and good budget to build Sweden stronger. This is about an additional 74 billion with important reforms for Sweden. The opposition parties first submitted their own draft budgets but ultimately chose not to vote for them but to poke a little in our budget. What has happened now is that M, KD and SD have agreed on minor adjustments to the government budget. Their proposal will not build Sweden stronger. The fact that the proposals are not prepared, controlled and audited in the way one might wish for from a budget does not make things any better. Nevertheless, the bulk of the budget is a very good budget with many good reforms of which we can be proud. The school gets more resources. The medical system gets more resources. The elderly are given more resources. It's thanks to the S-budget. Our reinforcements of health insurance are going through. There won't be a reduced unemployment benefit. The security pension is implemented for those who have worn themselves out after a long working life. Great, important climate efforts remain. It is the government's policy, and it takes our country forward. The budget as a whole is good, but we have submitted a special opinion from the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party to highlight the difficulties with the additions made by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats and the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to We need to meet the challenges of the future together in the state, municipalities and regions. We need to strengthen trust in our common so that people dare to believe in a future and a more secure society. With that, I wish everyone a Merry Christmas.
i-84127737242618d4-53	Mr President, I would like to A Christmas post, then it's important to be a little extra nice. I will be. General grants to municipalities are a fairly general area. I thought I'd take this opportunity to do a summary of what happened last year, 2020. In fact, for the local government sector, it was a very good economic year. Of course, this is because the state may have overcompensated the pandemic effects a little. There has been a temporary surplus, and it is quite important to understand that it is temporary. What will come in the future is that the demographic challenge for elderly care and health care persists. The challenge of being an attractive employer and attracting staff remains. There are many persistent challenges for the local government sector. Nevertheless, it is a bit exciting to note that the municipal sector in 2020 had 54 billion in surplus. This meant that you could reduce your loan debt by 74 billion, which is 20%. It's quite historic, and I think it's very good. It is also enjoyable and gratifying for a center party to note that the general state subsidies increased by 41 billion, something we have fought hard for. I think it can be said that the pandemic caused the state to open its cranes to the local government sector. As an old councillor, I'm very happy about that. I think we need to understand that the state needs to take greater responsibility for the financing of the local government sector in the future. Mr President, I would like to To look forward to the 2022 budget, I would like to highlight three issues. The first is the risk tax on the local government sector, which we have now debated and laid down. I am quite pleased that the Centre Party is the only party that has added extra funds to take up the increase – 280 million in our budget option. Risk tax risks hitting Kommuninvest, i.e. reducing the opportunities for small and medium-sized municipalities in particular to finance themselves. Today, two thirds of all municipalities have virtually all their borrowings with Kommuninvest, so it hits their conditions for building schools, retirement homes, hospitals and even rental housing. The risk of the risk tax when it falls out this stupid is that it increases costs and thus lowers investments in welfare projects, which are really needed forward. The Center Party has been driven by an announcement so that these problems can be solved. Mr President, I would like to The second issue I intend to raise is the issue of targeted state subsidies, a debate that we have had so many times in this House. We still see that it is a very big problem. In fact, it is often the case that the sum of targeted state grants is higher than the general state grants. The Center Party is perhaps the party that most of all parties fight to convert the targeted state grants into general state grants. The effects of targeted state grants will be increased bureaucracy and reduced predictability for Sweden's local politicians. It particularly disadvantages the small rural municipalities, for example in Norrland. They do not have the resources to allocate to applications, reports and evaluations. It is quite extensive processes that are required to bring home state subsidies. The basic principle of the Center Party is therefore that we want to convert as many targeted state subsidies as possible into general state subsidies. This creates room for local adaptation and efficiency improvements in the local government sector. Let's take a look at the budget reservation from SD, KD and M that went through. I am sorry to say that there are still very many small investments in it, in the order of 20– 25 million. It is a dumping of money – what we normally call press release money. I do not think it is a proper distribution, and it strikes very small-scale in many municipalities. In many municipalities it gives almost no money at all. Mr President, I would like to When you talk about the municipalities and their finances in the future you do not get around the issue of tax equalisation. The Center Party has long been keen to undertake a complete overhaul of the tax equalisation system. We took the initiative and got the whole Parliament to agree on an announcement to the government on this. This means that we should review the whole system and not just the cost element, as we did two years ago and which is around 10%. It is still the municipalities and regions that are supporting the well-being, and it is they who are facing the major challenges. They therefore need a level playing field. We see that the differences in tax rates are unacceptable. In fact, there is almost SEK 6 in the tax difference on a dogring between the highest and the lowest tax rate. It is also a strange situation that those who pay the highest tax also receive the lowest service in terms of both government jobs, infrastructure, cultural policy and everything else. The approach we have at the moment is not reasonable. The Center Party has some fundamental inputs that we think are important in making a tax review of the whole system. We want a guaranteed level of service throughout the country. It's basic. Another entry is that we want to create incentives for entrepreneurship, jobs and growth throughout the country. A third is that we need to take even greater account of sparseness than is being done today. The fourth entrance I mention as a Gotlander: We need to introduce an island factor for Gotland's health care. With this, Mr President, I wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-84127737242618d4-72	Mr President, I would like to In the Left Party Budget Movement, Red Policy for a Green Change, we propose a re-launch of the Swedish economy after the coronapdemine. We want to see a major green and modern transformation of society that creates development and jobs throughout the country. Our proposals increase the security of people through strengthened social security systems and safe working conditions. Through left-wing politics, we create well-being that benefits everyone, from the smallest children in preschool, through school and working life, to the elderly with a need for care. Since the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than the Left Party, we wish to refrain from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 25. The left-wing proposals in the area of expenditure are part of our budgetary option, which is a whole. It was interesting, moreover, that almost everything positive that Eva Lindh of the Social Democrats listed was included in the budget, as requested by the Left Party, because this time our votes were needed for the budget to go through, which it did not, of course, because the Center Party and the Liberals chose to abstain. In doing so, they released the budget that they are now in the speaker's seat criticising, which is interesting. Mr President, I would like to The functioning of welfare is a prerequisite for the freedom of many people. General welfare shall include all those in need of it. General welfare involves a solidarity-based redistribution of financial resources between women and men, between the low-paid and the high-paid, between different periods of our lives and between the healthy and the sick. For the Left Party, it is self-evident that resources dedicated to financing the common welfare should go to people who need support and help and not to commercial companies established in the welfare sector. Today we have in a divided Sweden. In my municipality Uppsala you do not have time to build homes and schools at the rate that people move in. In my municipality of birth, on the other hand, more people move out than in—even though rich municipalities do their best to overwrite the inhabitants they don't want, what is called social dumping. Of the ten richest municipalities in Sweden there are eight in Stockholm County; all ten of the poorest are located in the countryside. We cannot have a divided Sweden like this. This is why the local government sector needs to be strengthened, and it is the municipalities with the greatest challenges that need the most. We cannot have tax differentials of $6, which mean that it can distinguish l 500 kroner a month for those who earn 25 000 kroner depending on where they live. This is why the Left Party has pushed for a new allocation of resources for redistribution between municipalities. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions report states that between 2020 and 2030, the number of people aged 80 and over is expected to increase by approximately 50 per cent, while the number of people of working age is growing relatively slowly. It is also increasing even more slowly with the more restrictive foreign law voted by the Parliament. The prognosis has gone wrong. In small municipalities, however, all age groups are decreasing except those that are 80 plus. Who's going to work in the care of the elderly in these municipalities? Who ensures that the service is maintained? In order for smaller municipalities to be able to offer a well-being on equal terms, the Left Party proposes special support for smaller municipalities – a support that will even out the large regional differences in total municipal tax. Mr President, I would like to There are not only large differences between municipalities; there are also large gaps within municipalities. Within our big cities there are huge gaps, and between the end stops in Stockholm's metro it distinguishes several years in life expectancy. It is social divides that help to divide our society. It is the absolute conviction of the Left Party that a strong, jointly funded and equal welfare with a well-functioning school, leisure activities, health care, social services, low unemployment and a strong social insurance system is the best way to combat class society and thus also prevent crime. That is why, Mr President, the Left Party also wants to increase general state aid substantially so that municipalities and regions can meet the costs of demographic change without having to resort to cuts or tax increases. The great needs we see in welfare can be addressed by a sharp increase in general state subsidies. The Left Party has for a long time been working for and demanding more resources for welfare. We did so in the last parliamentary term when we negotiated the budget, and we did so before then. And we see clearly that a great deal of resources is still needed to secure staff supply, increase continuing training, improve working conditions and the working environment and, above all, to give more time to the care and needs of the elderly. There should be time to provide a dignified and satisfying care and help with the needs of the elderly. There is simply a need for increased general state aid to the local government sector. Municipalities and regions also have major investment needs. We therefore believe that the state should take greater responsibility and contribute to the expansion of important social properties that are necessary for various welfare functions. We want investment aid. Children need good schools, and older people need workable accommodation adapted to their needs. In addition to these major reforms, the Left Party also proposes a series of targeted initiatives in areas such as health care, school and preschool, reforms that we have presented in other areas of expenditure and in other debates. Mr President, I would like to I would like to refer here to the special opinion of the Left Party.
i-84127737242618d4-87	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Every day millions of people go to work and feel secure in being able to do so because welfare works. It may be that you leave your children at preschool or at school or that you have your old mother at home. Then you can feel secure, because if welfare works, the labour market can also work. The welfare society and the welfare state are something that we should feel enormous pride in Sweden. It is an important part for people to be able to feel safe and for us to invest in knowledge and education and for our children to learn enough. Mr President, I would like to Every year 18 000 young people leave school without a full grade. The education debt and youth debt that this entails for those people and for Sweden as a country is one of the greatest social problems of our time. We leave generations behind that don't learn enough in school. It's one of the biggest betrayals. This is important for the Liberals. In our budget, we prioritise school first all the way. We have reforms for more hours in Swedish and mathematics. We want reforms that mean that every child can get a school book – not like today printed books or copied papers that the teacher is forced to use in the classroom. Students should be able to get real textbooks. We want efforts to ensure that children who have roots in other countries, whether they or their parents are born in other countries, attend preschool and learn Swedish there. Nothing is more important for integration than learning Swedish. Mr President, I would like to Health care is currently facing enormous challenges and problems, of course linked to the Corona and Covid crisis. Once we get through it, the problems that existed before the crisis will become even clearer. One of the biggest problems is that doctors, nurses and other staff in our hospitals spend a great deal of time looking for care places, which means that frustration is great among the employees and that patients are sometimes forced to lie too close or in corridors. It is not worthy of a welfare society like Sweden. Liberals believe that the policy that many parties have been pursuing for a long time, where the number of care places has been cut, has been completely wrong. It has been devastating for how Swedish healthcare works. It is time that we now turn the page and design health care in a different way. In our budget, we have a targeted state contribution to this very thing, so that our regions and county councils can expand health care and not least the number of care places. This is what creates security for people and means that health professionals do not have to spend the entire working day looking for care places. Mr President, I would like to Security is a fundamental and important part of Swedish society and an important part of the welfare state. When you look out over Sweden, no one can be satisfied with the insecurity that is emerging right now, where criminal gangs and clans take over areas and create a huge insecurity both for those living in the vulnerable areas and for the whole of society. Crime has crawled the entire Swedish people closer to the body. Therefore, the efforts that the Liberals want to make on the judiciary and the police are absolutely crucial, and indeed the investments we make to municipalities, so that the municipalities can create security locally. This can be about municipal security guards in areas where it is unsafe, so that you can relieve the police and ensure that people feel safe in their surroundings. Mr President, I would like to School, care and safety are important parts of the welfare society. For the Liberals, this is an incredibly important part of the construction of Sweden forward. For this to work, we need full employment. It is based on people working and the hardworking middle class feeling encouraged by politics. Far too often today it is the opposite. You do not see the hardworking middle class and the contribution that those people make, not just to themselves, but to our common society. It is about how to describe entrepreneurs and the so-called rich, who are supposed to destroy our society, when in fact it is exactly the opposite. They're hardworking people who get up every morning and go to work. This is what builds our society strong and builds the well-being of municipalities and regions strong. Mr President, I would like to In the Liberals' budget we have a balance between efforts where we stand up for the hardworking middle class and for Sweden's entrepreneurs and efforts where we invest in welfare. We make sure that the school, care and security work locally, so that people can feel safe. Without hardworking people and without entrepreneurs, we have no welfare. This connection is incredibly important for the Swedish society to function. Last of all, I would like to wish the President and others a really merry Christmas.
i-84127737242618d4-101	Mr President, I would like to On today's subject, I was going to take the liberty of talking a little broadly about the economy of municipalities and regions, but also of making some personal reflections in addition to the position of the Green Party, because it is my last day in this House. Municipalities and regions form the basis of Swedish welfare, in what we have jointly built up. It is a society that holds together and where we help each other when we need it. Globally, our access to free school, free care for children, good care across the board and fantastic high quality care at the forefront is still something that is far from self-evident and something that we should be very proud of. In what is called the welfare society in the West, we have an absolutely central dilemma that is slowly developing. Some call it the dilemma of expectations: As we get it well, we expect more from society. We have a research development that has shown its strength not least during the pandemic. We have managed the pandemic based on an incredibly advanced and fast-working research community that has been able to give us both treatments and vaccines. We are also given treatments for many diseases, which means that we can live well and for a long time. It's a fantastic development. But this hides a dilemma about funding: how good care will we get, and how can we afford to create good lives for people who live very long and live a large part of their lives after the active working life? These are issues that all parties in Parliament need to take very seriously in the future. It is a fantastic thing that many of us can look forward to celebrating their centenary, but it is not obvious how we will get functioning institutions. For my part, I would like to say that I believe that there are some things that are crucial for this to work, so that we have a welfare society in the future too, when we, who are now sitting here in the early years, need care and care. One thing is that I am convinced that it is incredibly important that we retain Sweden as an open society. If we close and think that we are good enough ourselves, we will have several problems. The business community will have major problems. But welfare will also have huge problems with the supply of skills if we act in this way. Therefore, I see the tendencies in society that are about closing Sweden not just as an ideological struggle. It is also a rather practical difficulty that will lead to huge challenges. The second is that the way in which we have organised ourselves, with local decision-making, is a huge strength, but it will also face problems in the future. Several speakers here have talked about the totally unsustainable situation that we have a very high municipal tax in those municipalities that have the greatest challenges in providing services to their citizens. This is an untenable situation. We cannot expect people to pay more municipal taxes to get less service. Of course they will react to it, and they will. Here we need to make radical reforms. I am convinced that it will not be enough to screw the distribution system between municipalities in the future. I believe that Sweden's parties need to get together for a more fundamental reform. I simply believe that a new municipal reform is needed in the country, where we are reviewing the organisation of local welfare in a more fundamental way. Today, apart from the problem of unequal tax collection, we have a situation in which municipalities do not work together but oppose each other. Statskontoret has been able to conclude that the phenomenon of social dumping is quite common in Sweden. It is cynical work where rich municipalities systematically and actively drive out citizens that they do not want in their municipality. They – it's roughly put, but it's a pretty good picture of it – dump them in other municipalities who find it harder to take care of them in a good way. These are, for example, new arrivals and people with substance abuse problems. This is an indicator that something is not as it should be in the Swedish municipal system. In order to remedy this, I believe that we will have to make a fairly broad and thorough municipal reform, in which we aim for each municipality and each region to have sufficient resources and muscles to meet the future. There is another point that has come up in the debate that is important. The pandemic has led the state to step up and take more responsibility for the financing of welfare. There have been temporary reinforcements and, not least, incredibly important long-term reinforcements. For the local government sector, this is an important issue. The best way to do this is through general state subsidies. But there is also a reform that I think could strengthen the local economy in a very structural way. It is a question of developing the state establishment programme. That was a good move, and I'd be happy to give it to you. It was not my government that did this. The state establishment programme is about the state taking responsibility for new arrivals' first time in Sweden. But today it is only in two years, and we know that for a lot of new arrivals it takes longer than two years to establish oneself in Sweden in the way that you become self-sufficient. It's very different. Some can be on their feet very quickly. It depends on the conditions under which you come here. However, some groups need treatment and training that takes a long time to get them on their feet. This means that today there are quite a few new arrivals who after two years have a very unfortunate break in their establishment process. They are forced out of the state system and are allowed to take advantage of measures provided by the municipalities. The municipalities often do this in a very good way, but there will be an interruption and a transfer of costs from state to municipality. An extension of the establishment programme, where the state takes responsibility for the individuals who need it for a long time, would mean a proper and permanent strengthening of the finances of the municipalities. This would then also be distributed fairly among the municipalities. That would be a rather simple measure. It can be done quite quickly, and it would have good system effects. We can look forward. When we emerge from the pandemic, which has put enormous stress on the activities of the municipalities and regions and where staff have really stepped up and done a lot, we should not be content with saying: we have done well. We have. But it is also a question of taking this as a starting point for more radical reforms, so that we can manage the next crisis just as well. I believe this and the Green Party are essential if we are to make progress on welfare. It is a question of reviewing the fiscal framework, how we create the muscles needed to strengthen the state with borrowing. It is a tax reform and a municipal reform and a change in the state establishment programme. This could equip Sweden's municipalities and regions for the future and make us strong and sustainable so that we are ready even when there is a new crisis, for we must unfortunately expect that to happen. As I return later today, I will not say Merry Christmas now. Nevertheless, I would like to thank those members of the Committee on Finance who will leave this House after this debate. We have worked very well together in the Committee on Finance during the economic crisis. It is a strength for Swedish democracy that this is what happens in the Swedish parliament when we are in a crisis.
i-84127737242618d4-120	Mr President, I would like to This is not a line; it is a thank you. I think that Karolina Skog's speech in the speaker's chair showed exactly what I have seen in the years that we have worked together. You have a very reasoning style. You can't say that, but there might be an exception in this case. We very much share the objective and drive when it comes to environmental and climate issues. The Center Party and the Green Party do not always agree on the solutions, but we very much agree on the objective. I think you should be very proud of your democratic efforts. A big and warm thanks from the Center Party for the work you have done! I believe that the other members of the Committee on Finance share this.
i-84127737242618d4-122	Mr President, I would like to I can only humbly say: Thank you very much!
i-84127737242618d4-123	Mr President, I would like to I am now doing something for the first time and for the last time: taking a line on Karolina Skog. I have not done so before, and I will not be able to do so after that either. I would really like to thank Mrs Karolina very publicly for the excellent cooperation we have had, from the whole of our committee group, of course. I have really appreciated many of the conversations that we have had together. I also think that Karolina is a very competent, reasoning and committed politician. I am not only happy about it as a Member of Parliament, but I think as a human being, who lives in Sweden and who really protects democracy, that it is very good to see people who have a great deal of commitment, politicians who have a great deal of commitment, and who are really driven by will and ideology. I would like to thank Mrs Karolina very much for that.
i-84127737242618d4-125	Mr President, I would like to I can only say thank you. I'll burst into tears if I try to say more. Thank you very much.
i-84127737242618d4-126	Mr President, I would like to After many tours, Sweden received a new Prime Minister, and she now devotes all her energy to distance herself from the previous government policy and says she wants to take strong action against both organised crime and segregation in our suburbs. She is therefore trying in traditional S-manér to go in opposition to herself. It is a tactic that the Social Democrats use every time we approach an election. It points out all the social problems that need to be addressed but forgets that you yourself have been in the government and should have acted vigorously against the same social problems but have not done so. At the same time, systems have been put in place to blame all the problems on someone else. If it is not the pandemic, it is the alliance government or even the Bildt government 1991-1994 that is to blame. Or it is our municipalities, our regions or our health professionals who are responsible for what has not worked. The responsibility never lies with the current government. At the same time, one can understand whether Magdalena Andersson is ashamed of the politics that has been conducted. The fight against organised crime was, for example, the focus of the former Prime Minister Lövven's government declarations both 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 and actually also 2021. But it was just talk and beautiful words. The trend has gone in the wrong direction, the shootings and murders have increased and the criminal gangs are taking on themselves in our society around our municipalities. Uncertainty has spread, while the measures taken by the government have been incomprehensiblely few. At the same time, segregation and failed integration have become a growing problem. Moreover, on all these issues, the government has said no to much that the opposition has proposed to reverse developments. Failures also apply to other policy areas. For example, Stefan Löfven promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate, but instead we have achieved the EU's almost highest unemployment rate, while Sweden now has higher unemployment than the EU average for the first time since EU membership. This creates major problems in our municipalities. We can see how school results have deteriorated, although it is clearly hoped that creative thinning of students at national tests would hide the shortcomings. During today's government, electricity prices run smoothly, and the supply of electricity is strained. At the same time, the government has had to deal with a threatening shortage of cement. When the new party leaders of the Social Democrats are now promising a new policy, it is very false. Magdalena Andersson has not only been Minister of Finance in Stefan Lövven's government and thus the second most heaviest minister in the government, but she has also been responsible for all the budget proposals and all the priorities that have been set in them. She is also a member of the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats and is therefore responsible for the political line and decisions of the party as well as for the negotiations with other parties and the previous government cooperation with, among other things, the Green Party. Magdalena Andersson cannot pretend that she stood by the sidelines of failed politics. She is very much responsible for what has gone wrong. Stefan Lövven's failures are the failures of Magdalena Andersson. More politics of the same kind will not solve Sweden's problems, regardless of Magdalena Andersson's beautiful words. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new course. In the budget that we Moderates have negotiated together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, we have made major changes in the budget bill with as much as SEK 20 billion. This changed budget also received the support of the Riksdag. Our single biggest focus is on the police and the judiciary, with money for increased police salaries, better tools for the police in their work, investments in drop-outs, strengthening of the Prison Service, the Prosecutor's Office, the courts, Säpo, Customs and Coast Guard, and more detention places for persons with expulsion decisions. All these measures will help our municipalities to have a safer living environment. We also spend more resources on health care for, among other things, more care places, we invest in measures against long-term unemployment and we increase teaching time in school and introduce special support to holiday schools to make up for missing lessons during the pandemic. We are lowering taxes properly for both employees and pensioners and increasing the housing supplement for low-retirement pensioners. We also lower fuel taxes and, at the same time, invest more money in expanding electrification of the vehicle fleet. Our three parties also announce a comprehensive grant reform and clearer goals for a sustainable Swedish migration policy. Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating is based on the budget supported by a majority of three parties in Parliament. For the local government sector, several initiatives are made, and in total we provide the local government sector with more money than the government proposed in its budget proposal. I should now like to point out some major changes that we have made to the budget proposal, which specifically concerns the local government sector. The main item is compensation for reduced tax on pensioners. Since Parliament's decision to reduce taxes on pensioners reduces tax revenues for the local government sector, we fully compensate the local government sector for this. It is important to point out because other things are being put forward in the debate. Other major initiatives concern schools, parents and children. A good start in life for e builds many problems in our society, and therefore our three parties agree on some important long-term reforms. Research indicates that early intervention is crucial for more students to reach the knowledge goals. This budget takes the first step to increase teaching time by one hour per day starting in primary school. Above all, the expansion should take place in Swedish and mathematics, because the important foundation in primary school is that students should learn to read, write and count. At the same time, teachers should be freed from working hours that are currently being spent on things that are not linked to the teaching itself. In the vast majority of cases, parents are the most important persons in a child's life. There are situations where parents experience difficulties in parenting or need support to deal with new situations. Then the public should offer support and help in the important role of parents. Support for parents is also a support for children. One way to support parents is through municipalities offering parental support programmes. Access to parental education for all parents should be increased, and we therefore put extra money into this in the budget. Mr President, I would like to Moderate-led politics makes a real difference, and we also show that we can work with others to steer Sweden in a better direction. While the Social Democrats needed seven years of government before they were ready to tackle the social problems, as Social Democrats have written in some recent debate articles, we Moderates are prepared to start work directly with other parties if we win the next election. We are now three parties, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, taking the first step to get Sweden in order. We Moderates are ready to take more and important steps after the next election, preferably together with more parties. We will talk and cooperate with everyone who wants to help develop Sweden in a better direction. Mr President, I would like to I note that there are no reservations on this matter, but I would nevertheless like to support the proposal in the report, which is a very good one, for the sake of order.
i-84127737242618d4-149	Mr President, I would like to When Mr Ericson takes the floor and says that today's Prime Minister distances himself from his former Prime Minister, the idea is undeniably that this is exactly the same as the Moderates do. The most successful moderate leader was quite strongly dissociated from today's management. But that's not what I was going to ask you. You say you make a real difference, Jan Ericson. Maybe you do, but not for the countryside. You're not doing anything there. I can tell you what we have come up with in our budget. We have aid of 150 million for sandwiches, but there is nothing in your budget reservation. We have a climate premium that will give work machines, electric buses and electric trucks 385 million, but they will get zero in your budget reservation. We have a bio-premium of over 100 million for fuel for agriculture that makes it as cheap to run with RME as with diesel. We have 900 million for individual roads, but you have zero in your reservation. We have 2.9 billion for broadband expansion, but you have zero in your reservation. We also have SEK 600 million for public lighting on the roads, but you have zero in your reservation. Why does it look like this? Why do you not give priority to the countryside? You just talk a lot.
i-84127737242618d4-153	Isn't the debate about municipal economic equalization and general subsidies to municipalities? I'm just taking note of that.
i-84127737242618d4-154	Mr President, I would like to Everything that is done in a state budget affects all people throughout the country, both in sparsely populated areas, in rural areas and in our metropolitan municipalities. This means that everything we have invested in in the negotiated budget will benefit all people, including in rural areas. But of course there are things that affect the countryside very concretely. I would particularly like to point out here all the security efforts that we are making and which are of enormous importance. We also have a general cut in taxes for people who work and for our pensioners, reduced fuel taxes and investment in charging infrastructure, which is of enormous importance to our rural areas. Many rural people drive very far with their cars and benefit greatly from our reduced fuel tax. I would also like to draw attention to what we Moderates went out with the other day, namely that we want to reduce electricity taxes at the beginning of next year to compensate for the very high electricity prices. This is extremely important for people living in their own homes in rural areas. I think we should be a little careful about dividing Sweden into rural and urban areas. It is important that all of our municipalities and inhabitants should be given access to the policies that we are pursuing. I live in the countryside myself and spend the weeks in the big city, and then it is easy to see the big differences that exist between rural and urban. But our goal cannot be that we should divide this and just talk about one or the other, but every person in Sweden deserves a good policy.
i-84127737242618d4-158	Mr President, I would like to My reply was in response to the speech made by the honourable Member, which was quite general policy and which was not just about municipal subsidies. I listened to the answer from Jan Ericson. Of course it's all connected; that's it. But this is also linked to survival and continued operation in rural areas. The money we spend on rural deductions, which allows the cost of roads and broadband communities to be reduced – 500 million – you are not included. We are spending an extra 1 billion on the rural programme, which you do not have. In some way, this is connected – to develop the countryside so that we can cope with the welfare of the municipalities. It is by having a living countryside that we generate tax revenue on the municipalities and, above all, on the smaller rural municipalities. I still lack full compensation.
i-84127737242618d4-163	Mr President, I would like to I take the liberty of continuing this more general discussion on rural areas. I can only say that the Center Party does not have a concrete proposal, for example, to reduce fuel taxes in its budget and has not pushed this issue forward. We have also seen how the Center Party has taken credit for the fact that it has finally reformed the protection of the beach. This has not been done, but the new beach shelter will be worse than the old one. These are two examples of the fact that the Center Party has not succeeded in its rural policy at all. It is we who run that policy. We are the ones who have tried to come up with better proposals for rural areas. I therefore do not understand Lars Thomsson's criticism at all.
i-84127737242618d4-167	Mr President, I would like to In debate after debate, Jan Ericson of the Moderates criticised the government and the Social Democrats for not having enough general state grants but for many targeted state grants. Now that the Moderates have been given the opportunity to make changes through a number of proposals being voted through in the adjusted budget, the state subsidies that go to municipalities and regions will be targeted and not general. It will be strange for me when we stand here in debate after debate and Jan Ericson asks questions. And as soon as a proposal is made, that is what the government and the Social Democrats are being criticised for. Jan Ericson points out here that a proposal on parental support is important. I know that. I've been working on parental support. Research says that in many ways it can actually make a positive contribution. But why do they lift this out when municipalities and regions should be able to decide for themselves what to invest in? In addition, it is most remarkable when you say that the conditions for family week are good enough for you to say yes to it, but you remove the money. What does that mean for those families who may need family support? Well, that means that only some parents can take time off. It is they who have the opportunity and the money for it, but not all. I really want answers from Jan Ericson to these questions. What have you been thinking?
i-84127737242618d4-173	Mr President, I would like to All parties make their budgets, and the Moderates' budget is comprehensive and very comprehensive. Then we have negotiated with two other parties and made changes to the government's budget and had it as a starting point. We in the Committee on Finance know that the state budget is a rather complex history, and it is by nature not easy for opposition parties to make very large and very dramatic changes to a proposed budget. These changes should also take place in a rather short time. That's why we've focused on changing important and heavy things that we think can reverse developments and lead them in the right direction. That does not mean that we have redone the entire state budget. We are essentially inheriting the government's budget and very many things and details contained in the budget. If, after the next election, we get the chance to be in a government position, we will make our own state budget from the start. And then we will have the opportunity to make more of the main features and the general measures. But when we enter an existing budget, it is about moving funds away from what we think is less good and instead putting them on things that we think are more important. Then the effect will be that there will be changes in details but that one cannot get to a whole. It is not surprising, therefore, that it looks this way. On the moderate side, we are generally very positive about switching from targeted state grants to general state grants. But if you are going to enter a budget and make changes, you have to work in a different way. Those of us on the Committee on Finance know that's how you get to work.
i-84127737242618d4-178	Mr President, I would like to This answer is not good enough, Jan Ericson. Actually, I'm getting a little upset. This is the condition for all parties. If you do not have a majority of your own, you negotiate. It echoes empty and becomes unclear when you stand and criticize and then do the same thing that you yourself criticize. Actually, I think it's pretty upsetting. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to address one of the major challenges, in addition to funding, namely the lack of labour. We need to employ a great many people in municipalities and regions. Jan Ericson stood here earlier and said that you invest in the long-term unemployed when you actually do exactly the opposite. What would now need to be done is efforts for the long-term unemployed so that they can acquire the skills and knowledge that may be needed to enable us to employ the people needed in municipalities and regions. I wonder why they do that, Jan Ericson.
i-84127737242618d4-181	Mr President, I would like to This is getting a little weird. So the Social Democrats are in the pulpit after seven years of government and think that we must now really invest in reversing long-term unemployment. If the Social Democrats have the proposals for this, why have you not presented them, and why have you not succeeded in the seven years you have been in government? Now all of a sudden you have all the suggestions and you know exactly what to do about it. It is not more of the policy with which you have failed that we need. That is why we have tabled another budget, that is, to try to do something and to reverse the development that you have failed to achieve. I therefore do not understand the criticism at all. It is something new that we need now and not to continue with the same old policies that have failed.
i-84127737242618d4-183	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the Parliament recently decided to approve the joint draft budget from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. For those of you who follow the debate at home, I can say that with regard to our particular area of expenditure, the proposal means that the municipalities will be allocated EUR 4 billion more in public subsidies for the next three years, which will be able to make a real difference across our country. These funds, as we have heard here from the speaker, go to cover the changes in tax revenue resulting from reduced tax rates for the country's pensioners. It is a proposal that I am proud that we from the Swedish Democrats have succeeded in implementing. In short, this means that next year the country's pensioners will find it a little easier to make ends meet. Our joint proposal in committee is also addressed to the country's younger people and their parents. In a short time it has been possible to read that Sweden's students have fallen behind in terms of important knowledge goals. We therefore propose extending the teaching time to facilitate and promote knowledge learning. The idea, as we have heard, is that the teaching time should be extended by one hour per day starting in primary school. The intention is that it should primarily apply to studies in Swedish and mathematics – subject areas that are really needed to build the country strong. Many young people are having a tough time today, and mental illness is increasing. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, do what we can to reverse this sad development. Research shows that if the right response to mental illness is introduced at an early stage, it can have a significant impact in the future. We therefore propose a special effort on parental support programmes, so that more municipalities can offer this important education to parents. The hope is that parents will carry knowledge and be able to support children with mental illness and anxiety. Mr President, I would like to Regarding the general grants to municipalities, one can read that the aim is to create good and equal conditions for the municipalities and regions of the country and to contribute to an effective municipal activity. The largest part is allocated, as we have now heard from the pulpit, through so-called general state subsidies, while targeted state grants are given for the pursuit or achievement of specific requirements. In recent years, these funds have been used, among other things, to cover the increased costs of municipalities and regions linked to the pandemic. The targeted state subsidies have increased since 2010 in both volume and number – although it claims to safeguard local and regional self-determination, as we have heard from the pulpit. Many municipalities spend a large number of working hours each year seeking these funds, time that could simply have gone to other things. In the coming years, substantial investment will be needed in favour of, among other things, education, health and long-term care, to mention a few areas. All parties are aware of this. Not least, the regions need all the support they can get to cope with the increase in care queues. This is not only linked to the pandemic, but also to the treatment of cancer and other diseases. Historically, we from the Swedish Democrats have been very critical of the fact that some municipalities that were well placed to have an economy in balance belong to those who received the most in contributions. Malmö, for example, continues to stand out by being a municipality that receives about twice as much in grants per capita as what is today the average. Among the country's regions, Gotland is the one that receives the most grants. While the state pays out grants, there has been a tendency for municipalities around Sweden to take greater responsibility for things that are not their obligation. Today, municipalities spend large amounts of money on security-building measures. For example, security guards have become a permanent feature of my home municipality Uppsala. The reason for choosing to hire guards is that there has been a lack of police patrolling in the municipality. The general contributions do not focus precisely on security-building measures, but they must not be used to cover the failure of the government and the state. If you look around the county instead, you can see that the three municipalities Heby, Tierp and Älvkarleby, which have long been governed by the Social Democrats, together receive most of the compensatory payments among the county's eight municipalities. It is worth adding that these have a relatively high municipal tax at the same time. General contributions will continue to be an important component of local authorities and regions financing their activities. Targeted state grants are an important tool to steer in a specific direction, but what is demanded by Sweden's Municipalities and Regions is more general state grants and less targeted state grants. We must trust that our colleagues throughout our country have the skills to decide what needs to be done in their municipality or region of residence. We simply need more self-determination over finances and less bureaucracy. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the committee's report and take the opportunity to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-84127737242618d4-197	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is critical of the long-term budget adopted by the EU. We want to see less money for military and border policy and for agriculture that is climate-damaging. Instead, we want to see a recovery policy with social investment, green transition and modern infrastructure. We are also critical of the EU opening up to introduce more charges at EU level, which Sweden must say no to if and when such sharp proposals come. One area that has received additional funding from the EU budget is security and defence. The Left Party strongly opposes the joint defence work within the EU. We say no to all plans for rehabilitation and, not least, to common defence. We believe that Sweden and the work for peace and disarmament benefit from our country's freedom of alliance being guaranteed. Today, the European Union is providing our neighbours with financial support to keep refugees away. Instead of having their own rescue ships in the Mediterranean, this is left to Libya. However, there are reports of inhumane handling in these so-called rescue operations and of how refugees are then treated in Libya. At the same time, the EU is continuing this cooperation and developing it. Cooperation with Turkey also continues unabated. At the EU's external border, refugees are forced back through so-called pushbacks, and their right to seek asylum is taken away from them. The Left Party wants to see another policy that guarantees people the right of asylum and human rights. We were also critical of the recovery fund for Member States that are now in full swing. The Left Party argued that the fund should be a matter for the euro area countries and not for all Member States. The countries that said 'no' to monetary cooperation in EMU should have been excluded. Basically, the Left Party is in favour of cooperation and solidarity between Member States, but we are very critical of the outcome of the negotiations on the Recovery Fund. Important programmes such as the environment and research were reduced to allow Member States to receive higher contributions and to borrow more from the Fund. Instead of an EU-level recovery fund, the Left Party would have liked to see other options to help countries in crisis. Already heavily indebted countries should not be further indebted. In order to make it easier for Member States to recover their economies after the coronapndemine, Sweden should have acted at EU level in favour of debt write-down rather than increasing loans. Mr President, I would like to We can now see how, because of the budget adopted by the Riksdag, Sweden must once again repeat its application for support from the Fund, when the M-KD-SD budget removed several of the initiatives in the field of environmental and digitalisation that Sweden has applied for funds for. Now we do not know if and when we will receive support from the Fund. There we are accompanied by countries such as Hungary and Poland, both of which may have problems with aid because they do not live up to the principles of the rule of law. So far, the Commission has not introduced the conditionality rules that have been decided upon. This is something that Sweden must press for. Our tax revenue should not go towards financial support for undemocratic countries. Since Sweden's budget for the EU is determined by the EU's long-term budget and the budgetary decisions taken outside Parliament, we have no other draft budget, but we have a special opinion. Mr President, I would like to At the EU's external borders, there will probably not be a very merry Christmas. But that should not prevent me from wishing the President, the cabinet, the committee and everyone who is watching and listening to a really Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year here in the speaker's chair.
i-84127737242618d4-205	Mr President, I would like to In view of the fact that the discussion on the recovery fund was raised in the speech, I would like to be very clear on this issue. It is true that we have made changes in the state budget that affect the Swedish application in the recovery fund. But it is also the case that the committee has been given a presentation by Sweden's new Minister for Financial Markets – it was probably even the Minister for Finance who was there – and he was very clear that there were no problems whatsoever with the payment to Sweden being delayed and that there were no problems whatsoever in making the necessary corrections. In fact, it turned out to be just one item that you need to make some change. When you make an application to the EU for this money and then, as it has been in several countries, have elections, change governments or do other things – Sweden has made changes in the state budget – you have to make a correction to the EU. This is no wonder; a number of other countries have also done so. Then it is not the Moderates' fault that Sweden is so far behind in the application process. We in the Moderates have repeatedly questioned why Sweden has not received its application. In the spring it was the government itself who realized that the application had to be repeated because it was not complete from the beginning. I do not think we should dramatise this issue very much. In addition, Sweden has not applied for an advance payment of this money, as it goes directly into the state budget. Nor is it the case that this EU money jeopardises some projects that we have in Sweden. All the projects we do in Sweden are paid from the Swedish state budget, and then EU money goes straight into the budget. In fact, what Mrs Waldau raised in her speech is a non-problem.
i-84127737242618d4-211	Mr President, I would like to I cannot thank Jan Ericson for the question, because it was not a question without a defence speech for the Moderates' budget. Personally, I find it a bit embarrassing that Sweden is joining the countries that have not received any payments from the fund because they are not democratic. Then there is another country that has not managed to get to a government, even though it had elections a long time ago. I wish we had received this application and received the money we have applied for. As I said, the Left Party has not been in favour of this fund, but now that we are paying in so much money from the Swedish side, it is important that we get this money back. It also gets a little weird when Jan Ericson says that the money goes straight into the state budget and that we do not need this money. Both the current and the former Finance Minister have been clear in debates that we have included this money when we have made the various climate and digitalisation efforts. The fact that money could be sought was known when these investments were entered in the budget. We in the Left Party would like to see more effort, but we are not the ones who run this budget. I would also like to remind Jan Ericson of one thing. Even if the Minister of Finance said that it would probably be possible to solve this, he was very clear that it would not be easy; it would take a bit of trixing to find the items that could be included in the application.
i-84127737242618d4-217	Mr President, I would like to I think that this discussion gets a little out of hand when it starts to be linked to other states and their possible problems with democracy – it has nothing to do with this thing at all. What has happened in Sweden is that the country has a new government. Forgive me – Sweden should have had a new government, of course, but unfortunately that has not happened. Sweden, on the other hand, has received a new budget. In that budget, we have made some changes and removed certain things that we did not think made sense. Since the government included these things in its old application, it is now possible to update the application. I do not think that is a problem at all. I did not say, by the way, that we do not need the money, but I said that we do not need the money to implement these projects. They are not directly paid for by EU funds; they are paid for by our state budget. Then EU funds go into the state budget. That is why, as I said, this is not a problem.
i-84127737242618d4-220	Mr President, I would like to Personally, I think this is actually a huge problem. Perhaps it is not a huge problem that the application is delayed or that we have to do it again, but the big problem is why Sweden has to remake the application. This is because the Moderates and their partners have withdrawn major investments in the environment and climate. We in Sweden have a budget that is not at all as strong in terms of the climate efforts that we really need to make in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and to achieve a climate-neutral world and a climate-neutral Sweden. That is the big problem. The big problem is the budgets of the Moderates and their conservative comrades, not the application itself. Having said that, however, I still find it embarrassing that we are joining the undemocratic countries because we have still not received the application.
i-84127737242618d4-223	Mr President, I would like to Membership of the European Union is of great importance to Sweden and Europe. With our Union, we citizens of Europe can find ways to democratise life, regulate our dealings and create a development that is peaceful and brings prosperity. This is the basis of cooperation. As a reminder, the wars that have frightened our continent are sufficient to recognise the relevance of the Union. The development for us in Sweden depends on how our surrounding world is doing – especially the close to the outside world. 70% of our exports go to the EU. The fact that our trading partners have good economic development and therefore demand what we produce directly affects whether we have good economic development. You should remember that when you talk about recovery in Europe. With Europe, we can also uphold democratic rules and values in Europe. This is not just Europe, by the way – when the Member States speak with one voice about the rules of the world, it makes a difference. Cooperation gives us the tools to solve concerns and take steps forward, as in climate policy, when all countries commit themselves to living up to rules and objectives. To be ahead here is also a competitive advantage; we see this not least here in Sweden. But cooperation must always be based on the good of the people; this is our Social Democratic core and our entry into the Community. Freedom of movement must be positive and not be allowed to mean that people are exploited as wear-and-slipping goods on the labour market. Therefore, employees' rights and social issues must always be safeguarded. Welfare must also be protected and developed. It must not be the lowest ambition that sets the norm for tax levels and regulations. Citizens should feel that they are the ones who control their lives and society – not that they are governed. If any of this falls – if people are exploited, welfare is eroded or democracy eroded – the relationship changes from a constructive to a destructive force. People and countries turn their backs on each other. They're closing. The efficiency of politics is shrinking. Conflicts lose opportunities for peaceful solutions. Confrontation and incitement are gaining ground. Europe is weakening, Sweden is weakening and we citizens are losing influence over our common social development. In Social Democratic Europe, everything begins and ends in social and democratic terms. Mr President, I would like to When the EU negotiated last year how the future long-term budget would be drawn up – and as a result also about the size of Sweden's membership fee – the entrance from the Riksdag, from the Government and, ultimately, from then Prime Minister Stefan Löfven was very clear: The Swedish fee would be kept low. The risk of the levy being increased was imminent, particularly after the British left the EU. But Löfven and Sweden succeeded – against all odds, and to the chagrin of many other Europeans, Sweden's fee was kept low. Our line on a disciplined budgetary process is solid. We believe that revenue should determine the level of commitments and that action should be purposeful and effective and create added value for the Union. But the foundations of European economic policy are laid in the fact that the Member States have order in their economies, and there is much to do here. More countries should increase their level of employment, not least by pursuing a gender equality policy to ensure that women also participate in the labour market, have their own livelihoods and achieve independence. More people should establish general security systems so that citizens have safety nets and opportunities for transition. And more countries should have a tax collection that allows you to start financing modern welfare. These reinforcements would create growth and equality and raise the countries and the Union. The role of the EU should be to push for this, as Sweden did during the last Presidency. Mr President, I would like to Although the Swedish membership fee has been kept low, it has increased this year. This is because part of the levy is linked to our budget, which is a measure of economic development. The increase is mainly due to the strong and relatively stronger development of the Swedish economy than in other EU countries. The last day, figures showed that unemployment in Sweden has now fallen below the pre-pandemic level. That's a power decision. And of course this is something we should hold on to. We will continue to develop the new jobs, those at the forefront of the climate transition, and we will equip people to take the new jobs. This, in turn, strengthens welfare. That is how we take responsibility, and then we can go ahead in Europe. I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations. I would also like to extend a good Christmas greeting to the committee.
i-84127737242618d4-242	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Then I will make my little objection, which I also had in our last debate. Björn Wiechel claims that Sweden's economy has developed very strongly. The truth is that the Swedish economy developed slightly less weakly than that of other countries, and that is what made us unfortunately have a very strong increase in our fee during this year. Quite exactly two years ago, I stood in this speaker's chair and debated that year's budget decision on the EU levy. I then expressed my concern and that of the Moderates for a sharp increase in the EU levy in the coming years. At the time, we did not know that there would not only be a sharp increase in Swedish contributions in 2021, but that we would also be forced to participate in a comprehensive so-called recovery fund where we will put future generations into debt with borrowed funds in order to contribute to European countries that have mismanaged their economies for many years. Unfortunately, the negotiations did not go Sweden's way, although Björn Wiechel tried to make it that way. The Swedish Government has obvious problems in taking full advantage of Sweden's interests in the EU. This is not just about the EU levy and the failure of the recovery fund; we see it in other areas as well. One example is the EU proposal on minimum wages, another is the threatening proposal on taxonomy and associated delegated acts that threaten to hit hard on Swedish business, Swedish jobs and Swedish energy supply. On point after point, it turns out that the Swedish Government cannot resist strong forces in the EU that push for decisions that unfortunately often disadvantage Sweden. For us Moderates, who are fundamentally in favour of Swedish EU membership, it is worrying that the Swedish Government is not doing better. This, by extension, threatens the support of the Swedish people for EU membership. It is important that the government clearly prioritises EU issues and ensures that ministers get into the discussions early on in the processes and do not let the negotiations be conducted entirely by officials. In this year's autumn change budget, as I said, there were suddenly and unexpectedly an additional 9 extra billion in costs this year for the Swedish EU contribution, i.e. one as a result of the fact that other EU countries' economies have developed even worse than the Swedish one, with Sweden's share of the already decided EU contribution increasing. The fact that the Swedish cost of the EU levy increases by as much as 9 billion in the current year is dramatic. It is such a large item in the state budget that it can be compared to the entire budget for housing allowances for pensioners or one third of the budget for the entire police service. So it's not coffee money. The fact that Sweden is repeatedly faced with rising costs for EU membership that are not reflected in the direct benefits for Swedish taxpayers is a concern. Mr President, I would like to Within the EU, there are also strong voices in favour of introducing what can in practice be called pure EU taxes. From the Swedish side, a large majority of the parties are against this. It will be extremely important for Sweden to try to bring together a majority of EU countries against these proposals. This must not be another issue in which Sweden is folding down. Tax decisions must be taken in agreement in the EU, and there must be no doubt whatsoever that Sweden will say no to any attempt to grant the EU the right of direct or indirect taxation of EU citizens. Mr President, I would like to As far as the EU is concerned, there is often a lot of discussion about the budget and money. It will then be easy to forget the basic values and thoughts that were at the heart of the EU's car. It is about the view of open democratic society, freedom of expression, free elections, free press, civil liberties and the respect of politics for citizens, but also about cooperation instead of protectionism and excessive nationalism. In recent years, the Pandemin has put all of this to the test. Many citizens in the EU experience great fatigue and frustration over restrictions, restrictions and now also about the issue of vaccine passports or covid passports and other requirements to live a normal life and move freely in their own country or travel within the EU. Many measures are hitting their own economy directly, both for individuals and for businesses. In several EU countries, we are also seeing appalling developments with legislative forced vaccinations, which, in any case, I do not think belongs in a civilised society. But we also see indirect vaccine coercion in many countries, where citizens who do not vaccinate themselves in some cases have their lives and their opportunities for livelihood limited in a sometimes unreasonable way. There is also such a discussion in Sweden, although Swedish authorities have been careful to resort to requirements for vaccination passports. At the same time, during the pandemic, we have seen worrying signs of protectionism and misdirected national measures that have damaged cohesion in the EU. Today, I believe that most people realise that the EU best combats various threats through cooperation and not through closed borders. Politicians, both nationally and in the European Parliament, should reasonably see as their main task to try to counter fragmentation and to hold both their own countries and the EU together during the current crisis. Unfortunately, things are moving a little in a different direction at the moment. I am deeply concerned about where both our country and other EU countries are going. Discussions about various restrictions and demands on vaccine passports are based on feelings. The tone of the social debate is sometimes very harsh and unreasonable, and individual people and employers are exerting pressure, for example for or against vaccination. In many countries extensive demonstrations are being carried out and sometimes they degenerate into clashes with police and anti-demonstrators. Yesterday came the news of a planned murder of a German politician linked to political decisions on pandemic restrictions. Conspiracy theories about both the existence of the pandemic and the effect of the vaccine under you while at the same time digging confidence in both politicians and authorities. On top of this, there is a fundamental discussion on how demands for vaccine passports in different contexts can be reconciled with fundamental human rights and freedoms. The consequences of all of this are difficult to grasp, but it is a much bigger issue than just the question of money and costs for the EU. Actually, I think it's going to take a long time to heal the wounds. A social crisis we face together with respect and consideration, preferably also with love for our fellow humans and not divided into two camps, not polarized, afraid and hateful towards each other. If I may convey a wish for Christmas and New Year, it is that people show respect for each other's views and realise that we are one and the same humanity that together must deal with the ongoing pandemic. I also hope that decisive politicians realise that it is in a crisis that politics is being tested and that that is when we must be able to stand up for human rights and freedoms and not restrict people's freedom more than absolutely necessary. Mr President, I would like to I am now in my sixteenth year as a member of the Swedish Parliament. What we have experienced in this and previous years is nothing like what we have experienced in the past. In particular, I would like to thank colleagues and officials of the Committee on Finance and the EU Board for a pleasant atmosphere, a good mood and a good creativity in dealing with practical problems. There does not seem to be any problems or workload that causes our offices to lose their temper, and that is quite amazing. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Karolina Skog for the years in the Committee on Finance and also in the European Council sometimes. I think you all deserve a really nice Christmas break and also wish both the President and the officials of this House a really happy Christmas and a happy new year.
i-84127737242618d4-267	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Jan Ericson for his good cooperation. During the year, we in the Committee on Finance have been able to bridge major ideological gaps. However, Jan Ericson's speech makes me a little puzzled, and that is the reason for my reply. We have often heard Jan Ericson take a hard hit on the EU levy and decisions in Europe make a mess of it, and he has painted this as a threat. That is why I am pleased that he is choosing today to also highlight the benefits of EU membership, because I have often missed it and wondered whether the Moderates are about to change in their view of the European Union. Can Jan Ericson confirm that this is not the case? When we talk about the increase in the EU levy, which is unequivocally true, and we paint it as a problem and a threat, we need to reflect a little on the alternative. What would happen if Sweden and the other strong economies in this crisis were to get on their backs? What would that mean for Europe and European cooperation? If you paint something as a threat, you must also be able to take responsibility for a possible alternative line, and as I see it, there is no one. The EU must keep the same in a crisis. Nor can I really get together what Jan Ericson says about standing up for human rights, democratic values and cohesion with the cooperation that the Moderates have started with the Swedish Democrats, a party that, for example, openly supports the regime in Hungary.
i-84127737242618d4-272	Mr President, I would like to There were many things at once, but I can start by saying that for us Moderates it is quite obvious that you can be in favour of being a member of the European Union and see the benefits and also see the risks of all this being missed if things are going in the wrong direction. If you really care about the EU, you also want things that you think are going wrong to be turned in the right direction. It's just like the Swedish Parliament. We want a good country, and we are in favour of developing our society. But when we see things go wrong, we want to do something about it. The same applies in the EU. The Green Party is perhaps the party that has made the biggest shift in European politics. From being strongly opposed to the European Union, it is today for the European Union. For us Moderates, it is no change; we are in favour of the European Union and great friends of the European Union, but we are not friends of a European Union that makes wrong decisions, mismanagement of money and resources and move more and more towards supranationality with less and less respect for national parliaments. Here we will say no. This does not mean that we are against the European Union itself, but that we want to make Europe better. That is the point of politics: to try to make things better.
i-84127737242618d4-276	Mr President, I would like to When it is said in the speaker's chair that it is a failure that the EU countries have agreed on a crisis budget, it is also suggested that a moderate-led government might have done something quite different and would have answered no when several countries in the EU were faced with enormous challenges that they could not face on their own. Is this what Jan Ericson means, or is it just empty talk? When Jan Ericson describes the European cooperation he wants, the key words are respect for national parliaments. This brings us closer to the conflict that exists in today's European Union between the Commission and several national parliaments where national parliaments choose to move away from European values of human rights and the rule of law. The conflict is between daring to fight for the EU and not doing so.
i-84127737242618d4-278	Mr President, I would like to I don't really share Karolina Forest's picture of what the recovery fund is. There is quite little there about dealing with today's acute crisis. It's more about things in the longer term. We believe that much of this should be done with the existing budget rather than borrowing all this money. That is why we are not very fond of the Recovery Fund. So to democratic development. The desire to respect national parliaments does not mean defending currents and moods in the EU that you do not share. If any party has acted forcefully against this, it is the Moderates. We have been extremely clear both here in the European Council and in the European Parliament in Brussels by taking countries in the ear that do not live up to the demands that the European Union is entitled to make. We therefore have a very good conscience on this issue.
i-84127737242618d4-280	Mr President, I would like to The EU's annual fee is largely governed by the so-called MFF, i.e. the long-term budget for the years 2021 – 2027. For the year 2022, the government has budgeted for almost SEK 48 billion. This is a substantial increase for Sweden, but unfortunately it does not stop at these costs. The world was hit by the coronap pandemic in early March 2020, and since then it has been upside down in terms of the infection and the number of victims. Today, almost two years after the outbreak, we still have to deal with the pandemic, both in terms of infection and support measures. We in Sweden have gone from safeguarding budget restraint to drastically increasing our public debt, which has been necessary to deal with the pandemic's progress. But while we Swedes are struggling with the pandemic at home, we have been forced to take too much responsibility for the EU. Negotiations on the EU's current long-term budget, the MFF, ended up in the midst of the pandemic. The Swedish democrats said no to both the proposed levels and the huge recovery fund, which most benefit euro area countries that were mismanaged before the pandemic. The outcome of the negotiations did not go Sweden's way. We have an annual fee of approximately SEK 45 billion and an additional commitment of approximately SEK 150 billion for our part of the recovery fund. For the Swedish Democrats, it is difficult to see why today's Swedes and, above all, our children should bear the costs of mismanaged economies in the EU through the Recovery Fund, named the sticky name Next Generation EU. It has become clear here that some countries, such as large countries such as Spain and Italy, consider themselves entitled to the tax revenue of well-managed countries. The EU's long-term budget is linked to the Next Generation EU. Therefore, Sweden's costs of SEK 48 billion, which we will decide on today, do not stop. Next Generation The EU is a huge commitment to be repaid from 2028 to 2058. This is a crisis package of almost SEK 8 000 billion in addition to the regular long-term budget. Together, it is about the unreal sum of SEK 18 trillion over seven years. To understand the extent of the sum, I made a calculation example. If each crown equals one meter, you can go to planet Pluto, back from planet Pluto, back to Planet Pluto and then halfway back. That is the sum that the EU has usurped. The government, and most parliamentary parties, have approved the Next Generation EU, and thus our financial commitments. During the negotiations and information meetings there were completely different points of view. The current Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, made it clear that the Next Generation EU is not right when it comes to which countries will receive the largest subsidies. The countries that will receive the most support are countries that, even before the Corona was drawn with mismanaged public finances. Criticism has also been highlighted that the Next Generation EU is largely about saving the euro, which is something that Sweden should not participate in. Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that Sweden's costs of membership of the EU have increased significantly. As I said earlier, the Swedish Democrats voted against both the long-term budget and the Next Generation EU. We wanted to see a long-term budget that was fully reduced due to a fall in revenue when the United Kingdom left the Union and not as now just a slightly adjusted budget. We also want to see a Europe that reduces its costs in general, not the other way round. We want to see a slimmed Europe, where power and obligations lie with the Member States. We want to see a Europe where free trade and the opportunity for EU citizens to work within the Union are the focus areas. We do not believe that those Member States that are far behind us economically will get their economies right by giving money to them. On the contrary, this makes countries even more dependent on financial contributions. In the debate we often hear that we in Sweden should be grateful for our discounts on the fee. However, Sweden is not the only country with large discounts on the EU levy. Germany and the Netherlands, for example, receive large discounts. At the same time, there are several contributions that completely counteract competition on equal terms. One of them is the additional agricultural aid that 14 EU countries receive year after year. Here France receives enormous aid, followed by countries such as Germany, Spain and Italy. It is so bad that almost 40% of the budget goes to agricultural aid in various forms. In the best of worlds it is seen that this huge support goes to sustainable agriculture and farmers who really care about animal husbandry. But that's not the case. Dragons such as France, Italy and Spain have become accustomed to the great subsidies and put an end to a new modern agricultural policy. The result is that the largest agricultural subsidies are given to large industrial farms. It is 80% of agricultural aid that ends up with 20% of producers. Madam President, I would like What is the future of the Union if you look at the EU budget? Some countries have already begun to say that they want to see a permanent recovery fund to smooth out gaps within the EU. It is not difficult to understand who is expected to bear the costs. The EU's growing budget requires more and more money. More and more voices are being raised for the EU to charge different types of taxes. This is totally contrary to the principles of the European Union, but there is still cause for concern about these voices. In addition, there are countries to the east waiting to join the European Community. These countries are not net contributors, like the United Kingdom, which we lost. Costs will increase in the context of an increase in the number of Member States. Having said that, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the first Vice-President, all the members of the committee and the eminent staff of the Committee on Finance a wonderful Christmas holiday and a really happy new year!
i-84127737242618d4-297	Madam President, I would like In this very last speech in the Swedish Parliament, I thought I would take this opportunity to express my extremely deep love for the institution that the European Union is. I joined a party where there was widespread scepticism against the EU. There was a fear of central decisions and that power would leave Sweden and go down to Brussels. Personally, I am extremely proud of the journey that I and my party friends made when we jointly took hold of the issue and managed to make a change in the way the party views Europe. We have created a work that is now fully focused on getting the most out of cooperation. This is the kind of maturity that parties need to demonstrate in order to function in a living democracy. Today we are discussing the fee that Sweden pays to the EU. It is true that it is large and that it is increasing greatly. Sweden is a major net contributor to European cooperation. It is true that this is partly due to the fact that there are other Member States that have mismanaged public finances and that EU cooperation has so far failed to get it under control. It is obviously an extremely important task to create a structure in which each country takes responsibility for its economy. At the same time, however, it is also important to stand up for the cohesion of this Union. When the Union entered a pandemic, in a crisis, it became extremely clear that cohesion within the EU was extremely important. The Cohesion Fund is not designed in an ideal way. There is much to say about its design. However, its creation is a strength for European cooperation and is extremely important. It is important that we are able to see it from here as well. The alternative scenario would have been to let Europe crack. In practice, it would have become a Europe of different regions. That would be devastating. This could ultimately lead to a crack in Europe. It could take us back to the situation that existed when the Union was formed. It is important to remember that the Union is founded for cohesion, peace and democracy. EU cooperation is today a sustainability project. It is through the EU and cooperation in the EU that Europe and thus the world can step up and manage to implement the reforms needed to implement Agenda 2030, the Paris Agreement and other joint conventions. The EU has strong work in the field of climate and biodiversity. It is therefore incredibly gratifying that we are now seeing a Commission that is very proactive and delivers reform after reform in this area. That can be said, because it is a conservatively led Commission. But I am personally extremely impressed by the Commission led by Mr von der Leyen. I see with sadness that there has been a shift here. A few years ago, Sweden was a leader in Europe's environmental work. Sweden, for example, made sure that the EU got a chemicals legislation. Individual politicians from Sweden were extremely decisive for this to happen. But today, under pressure from this Parliament, we have a Commission that is pushing and a Sweden that is starting to sit on its backs. That is extremely regrettable. I believe that the actions that the Riksdag has forced in relation to the work on what is called a green taxonomy will have a significant impact on Sweden's ability to be a leading nation in the environmental field in the future, as these effects have not been taken into account when the majority of the EU Board for this action has been gathered. Of course, it is not lost in any way, but this means that Sweden needs to gather together and become even clearer in its leadership on environmental and climate issues. We have simply lost our reputation, which is most regrettable. Of course, there are good opportunities for Sweden to continue to be a pioneer country. It is based partly on working at home, doing its homework and continuing the work to really reduce emissions, partly on being a constructive and proactive force in European cooperation, in legislative work and also in budgetary work. An essential point here is to be able to submit a good recovery plan in a credible way. If we fail to do so, it will further undermine our confidence. There is an important conference at global level that will take place in the coming years, a conference on biodiversity. It also provides the opportunity for Sweden to emerge, show leadership and show what we, as a nation and through European cooperation, can do at a global level. We have been crucial on many occasions in the past, and here we are dealing with difficult political issues such as forests, agricultural land, fishing and how we use our marine areas. I have some concerns about what position Sweden will take in this work, but I have hopes that we will be able to stand on the right side, on the side of nature. Maintaining biodiversity is, in fact, absolutely crucial. We must do so through cooperation. In order to keep the European economy together in the future, I believe that we in the European Union need to find ways of discussing tax issues. It is extremely sensitive to stand and say this here in the Swedish Parliament. It is not the Green Party's view that we should transfer the right to tax to the EU. It is an important principle to keep. On the other hand, it would be a good thing if we could find a way of working within the European Union to agree on minimum levels of taxation. For example, we see a very negative race to the bottom in terms of corporate tax within the Union, which creates uneven conditions for companies. It would be a good thing if we could agree on a minimum level for both corporate taxes and taxes such as CO2 taxation within the Union. This would make each Member State more courageous and increase opportunities. It would also create a bottom sheet so that companies operating in the Union will have a more level playing field in different parts. I believe that this would be an important part of creating the possibility of a progressive policy across the Union and in each Member State. I would like to appeal here to the politicians in the Swedish Parliament not to have so much blindfolds that one cannot engage in such a discussion in a constructive way. It is not the same as transferring tax rights. When you stand here and say that it is a good thing for the Swedish people, based on the work we have done with our good finances and on the work of every citizen in paying taxes, to pay to something that can be seen as a black hole down there in Brussels, it is important to remember what we get for the money. We get stability. We get a job that establishes democratic cooperation in Europe and provides us with good conditions. Not least, we get cooperation that gives us the opportunity to face up to the great challenges of our time in the fields of climate, the environment, democracy and human rights. Remember it – it's worth it! It is worth fighting for and sticking to the values that Europe stands for. In the run-up to the forthcoming presidencies, President Macron of France has raised a question that I find most interesting, namely how Europe can jointly create the conditions for investment that is necessary for the climate. This is again a sensitive issue, because we have some Member States that have acted irresponsibly in their own budgets and in their own debt. Once again, however, we must not let such problems stand in the way of constructive discussion. I believe that this is important for the European Union and Europe to face the challenges that we have jointly before us. It was one of the wisest things Sweden has ever done when we jointly chose to join the EU. I hope and believe that the Swedish Parliament will continue to be an active and constructive partner in European cooperation, because it is incredibly important for Sweden, for the EU and for the world. With this, I would like to thank you for your cooperation.
i-84127737242618d4-319	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Affairs Committee's report on Category 9 Health, health and social care. Over the past few weeks, the other committees in Parliament have debated and decided on their respective areas of expenditure. We are now the last to debate and also to decide on ours after the debate. The budget that we are debating today is about SEK 113 billion and is basically a Social Democratic reform budget with major investments in all its sub-areas. That is the one, Madam President, even without the minor additions added by the napkin sketch 2.0 which was the proposal by Mr M., by the KD and by the SD. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has put a great strain on Swedish healthcare. In the coming winter and next year, covid-19 will continue to have a significant impact on health care. However, thanks to the government's efforts, not least to the regions, healthcare has been able to cope with the effects of the pandemic and provide high-quality healthcare for all those who have needed it. But there are great challenges. We are still in the midst of a pandemic, and we will have to live with it for a long time. The major challenge for healthcare is, and will be, to manage and address all planned healthcare that has had to be postponed in recent years with the pandemic. However, it is progressing, Madam President. The Swedish health care system and its staff are absolutely fantastic. To a significant extent, extensive work has already begun during this year on the removal of the built-up health debt. That work must, of course, be allowed to continue and become even more extensive next year. The health care debt must be treated off, the staff must have good conditions and the patients must receive good care at the right time and as necessary. Madam President, I would like That is precisely why the government provided 4 billion for this work this year, and this initiative will be extended to 6 billion next year. In addition to this, the government spends money in the budget on an increased investment in cancer care and a continued investment in timely care in connection with pregnancy, childbirth and aftercare. The focus is on developing and strengthening primary care work on mental health and ill health. A major human resources initiative in healthcare, both 2022 and 2023, is being carried out to attract but also retain skills. More nurses are also given the opportunity to receive paid specialist training. In addition, Madam President, several important changes are being made in order to develop better healthcare within the country's health centres. They'll be armed. And they should have the power to be both the hub and the base of Swedish healthcare. Step by step, we strengthen primary care. We want to introduce a system of fixed medical contact. It is long-awaited and will have a good effect in reality. When you contact your health care centre, you should be assisted by one and the same person. You're not going to ball around. Madam President, I would like Covid-19 has, as I said, presented major challenges for Sweden's regions. But thanks to the government's rapid and comprehensive economic package to the regions, the economic conditions for the regions have been secured, in fact, so much so that not all the regions have even used all the additional funds. In some cases, surpluses in the regions have become substantial. Let us take Stockholm as an example. They have 7 billion in surplus. My home region, Skåne, has almost 1 billion in surplus. Against this background, it is surprising that large regions, such as Stockholm and Skåne, have not succeeded better in the work of testing and vaccination or in reducing care queues. Now even large cuts are being made to health professionals. The conditions are there – 7 billion in Stockholm and almost 1 billion in Skåne. The Västra Götaland region has a surplus of 1.8 billion er. The so-called just-in-time ideology must cease. It is not possible to address health care and its problems by scaling up operations only when the problems are already extensive. The conditions exist. The regions must now shoulder their responsibilities and play their part in the joint, important work of working out the health debt and managing the pandemic and its effects. Madam President, I would like Elderly care is an important and supporting part of Swedish welfare. To meet the increased needs and improve care for the elderly, we have previously invested in a historic investment in Swedish care for the elderly in order to increase staffing and improve quality. As of next year, the Government is proposing several investments in elderly care, including a permanent increase in resources for the elderly care of municipalities of SEK 4 billion annually and a major investment in skills-enhancing measures within the framework of the Government's elderly care lift. This totals SEK 10 billion more for elderly care in 2022 compared to 2018, Madam President. The efforts to raise skills, increase knowledge and improve the working environment for the staff also enable all municipalities to abolish minute schedules in the home service and guarantee permanent full-time employment to all those who complete the care programme as nurses. These are important efforts that will make a difference in practice, Madam President. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude the speech by wishing you and your colleagues, the entire Presidium of Presidents, the members of the Social Committee and its eminent workers, the Minister and the whole government and everyone else who listens to the debate a Merry Christmas. I hope you have some time off and may be allowed to celebrate with loved ones, at a safe distance. I would also like to say that the Social Democrats are not taking part in the decision, because our budget option fell. Instead, we refer to our particular opinion.
i-84127737242618d4-335	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that there is a common view of many of the economic reinforcements that we are doing with regard to healthcare in Sweden. To this, M, KD and SD now add a number of resources that we believe are necessary to scale up further, not least when it comes to managing the long care queues. We believe that national health care services will be an extremely contributing and strong part of it. But there are also other parts. From being one of the world's leading countries in HIV prevention, Sweden has been lagging behind for a long time. Not least during the time of the alliance government, the financial resources for this were indisputable. They were obvious. However, in 2016, without warning, analysis or investigation, the Red-Green Government announced that it halved these resources. It has had huge consequences, not least at regional and local level, where much of this work is done. And that ultimately affects the people who live with HIV. It has also had a negative impact on HIV prevention. This bet, we claim, must be restored to its original level. That proposal is also included in our budget. There are a number of proposals. In addition to updating our HIV and AIDS strategy nationally, we need to reintroduce the advice that has been available. We're going to raise the targets to 95-95-95, and we're going to measure the quality of life. My question to Mrs Bladelius is: why were these cuts made? And why is an M-SD-KD budget now required to prioritise these issues?
i-HE74TVMmkLxYfb3aMTDB87	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Grönvall, for the question. Madam President, I would like I note that of the 113 billion that this budget covers, M, KD and SD add 800 million with their napkin sketch 2.0. Which social democrats might think it is negative? At least not me. Of course, it is positive that we will have an extra 800 million for Category 9. The problem is that when you turn over the napkin and see the back of all the proposals that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's party brings to the expenditure area, you see all the savings in all other areas. The reverse is that disabled people will have to pay higher taxes than employees, that fewer rentals will be built with reasonable rents and that the compensation for the family week that was so well received by many will be removed. More will also become long-term unemployed. In the napkin sketch Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's party spends 50 million on a so-called health care agency. I guess that's a good idea. I have no idea, because I have not been able to see exactly what the health services should do in practice. Maybe it's supposed to drive carers to private alternatives, or what's the point? Madam President, I would like I would like to return a question to Mr Grönvall. We do not have government control of health care in Sweden. It is governed by the regions, and the majority of all regions are governed by Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's party. Why does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's party not use the large surpluses in the regions where they are directing to make the investments that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is asking for?
i-84127737242618d4-343	Madam President, I would like I note the social policy which does not answer the questions raised by the honourable Member, but chooses to go into quite different areas of expenditure. Now the issue was a very important one. It may not be about most millions, but it is about extremely important millions for people living with HIV. Not with a single word did Mrs Bladelius show that she thinks these people are important. She defended and did not explain why this reduction has been made. Why should we have to restore this when the question I asked cannot even be answered? I will give the honourable Member another chance and put it again, and at the same time I would like to take the opportunity to wish you a Merry Christmas. Why were these cuts made? And why is it now necessary for our budget to restore those priorities?
i-84127737242618d4-345	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to take this opportunity to wish Mr Grönvall a Merry Christmas. I note once again, Madam President, that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall shouts hoarsely over a failed health policy and efforts that are not being made in the regions on the issues that she considers important. Once again, I want to be clear with those who listen to this debate. All regions in Sweden are in surplus. Why is not the important efforts that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall wants in the regions already made if this is an important issue for her party, which governs the majority of all regions in Sweden? They're going in surplus. The money's there. Make the bets!
i-84127737242618d4-347	Madam President, I would like I note that Mr Bladelius is speaking very disparagingly about financial reinforcements being made to reduce care queues and to enable people who have been waiting for more than 90 days to receive care. She speaks equally disparagingly of the reinforcements we make in the work of HIV sufferers and in the eradication of cervical cancer. Is it really the honourable Member's view that it is wrong to spend money on short-term care queues and thus enable people to get the care they are entitled to, to invest in eliminating cervical cancer and to do more in HIV work? Does the honourable Member mean that these are the wrong bets?
i-KMpnrQXF789FVFvJdNRmZ8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for the question. The Stockholm region goes with a plus of 7 billion, and Skåne goes with a plus of 1 billion. In Region Skåne, staff cuts of over 540 million are made. How will it reduce care queues, says Acko Ankarberg Johansson? When the state provides large funds to the regions, these must of course be used for what they are intended for. Is it? No. When Acko Ankarberg Johansson last presented a napkin sketch in this House, there were also small proposals for changes in this area and in Swedish healthcare. They were never used because the proposals were poorly prepared. I thought I was clear in my previous line that no social policy can, of course, turn down 800 million extra to an area of 113 billion. That would be stupid. But can Mrs Ankarberg Johansson guarantee that the money in this napkin sketch will come to municipalities and regions? Last time they didn't.
i-84127737242618d4-353	Madam President, I would like It is amazing that Mr Bladelius is lowering the government in this way. Once the Riksdag has made a decision, it is the Government that will implement it. I share Mrs Bladelius' irritation at the fact that the reinforcement that we proposed in 2019 to increase resources – 3 billion – for primary care so that more could be hired disappeared in projects in an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. I regret the government's choice of governance. Instead, we would have needed more employees. That is why we are clear about our efforts here. They're going to go to more staff. The lack of a place of care is not a lack of beds or premises, but a lack of the right skills. That's what you're supposed to be betting on. How the government implements the reforms determines it itself. Like Mrs Bladelius, I regret the lack of governance. And if the honourable Member's reasoning were to follow what she herself says, not one more crown would be invested in the regions.
i-84127737242618d4-356	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind those listening to this debate once again that we are talking about 800 million out of 113 billion. At Skåne University Hospital, Sus, staff investments are reduced by over 500 million. You take away over 1,000 positions at Sus. How does Member Acko Ankarberg Johansson mean that 800 million will help regions that are already going with surpluses – Stockholm with 7 billion and Skåne with 1 billion – in their efforts to reduce queues and hire more when, at the same time, at this time, they are making cuts among staff of 1 000 posts? At Sus in Skåne it is about over 500 million SEK.
i-84127737242618d4-358	Madam President, I would like I can certainly agree with Mr Bladelius's description of the region's approach. I will come back to that later in my main speech. Instead, I wonder a little about the state contribution of the Social Democrats. You have increased the contribution to municipalities and regions by 3 billion. The Left Party feels that this is a little bit considering that the Institute for Economic Development says that next year 16 billion would be needed to keep the current standards in municipalities and regions. As it is now, there is a very glitch. We therefore want to strengthen the entire municipal and regional side through increased state grants to increase the number of employees in health care and to enable elderly care to agrate more than it currently does. I wonder how Yasmine Bladelius feels about that.
i-6Fwz9uzwMgAPRHQDDLLozy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question. I know we share a great deal of interest in these issues. An increased staff investment in health care is important for both of us. It is also important that the health care staff who will do so have good working conditions and good conditions to provide good, safe and safe care and to manage their work. Madam President, I would like As far as the regions and state subsidies are concerned, I would primarily like, to be honest, for the regions to spend the money that comes to them through state subsidies and not put it on high or otherwise. It is a strong recommendation from me to the regions to use the money that comes to them for what this money is going to do. Karin Rågsjö talked about increased state subsidies. The government has made historical increases in state subsidies to both regions and municipalities, and I think that is a good thing. Of course, we can all wish for more to be done in the future. We see a major challenge in Swedish healthcare. It has become clear not least during the pandemic, which we continue to be in. Good, safe and secure health care requires resources. That's it.
i-84127737242618d4-365	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Bladelius, for your answer! We must, of course, invest in public health care. I would like to emphasise that this is a human resources crisis, not a health crisis. This calls for an increase in the number of billions of state subsidies. At the same time, as the honourable Member says, we must be in charge of the regions which now have large surpluses but are cutting back. Everything has to be connected. However, healthcare and long-term care need an increased number of billions in state subsidies. I maintain that.
i-84127737242618d4-367	Madam President, I would like I note that I and Karin Rågsjö agree in many respects that efforts in the health sector continue to be needed. I hope we can have a good conversation about it in the future. With that, I would like to wish Karin Rågsjö a Merry Christmas.
i-84127737242618d4-370	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has really put its finger on both shortcomings and strengths in the health system – shortcomings and strengths that we are now trying to face or reinforce in different ways through our various draft budgets. I do not believe that there is any party that has not reconsidered thoughts, initiatives and decisions in the run-up to budget work in the light of what the pandemic has put its finger on. Madam President, I would like The Center Party strives for a care that is available to all... and which is based on the needs of the individual. The right to self-determination and influence over the care provided must apply to young and old, healthy and sick alike. The main objective of welfare is to ensure security and a level playing field for all, based on the understanding that people's needs can be different. Health care, long-term care and social services must be of high quality and accessible to everyone throughout the country. ..................................................... These are the initial sentences of the Centre Party's draft budget. It is a budget aimed at eliminating the inequalities in access to health care that exist between city and country, between young and old and between women and men. It is a budget aimed at giving power to the patient and to the person entitled to assistance. It is a budget that aims to strengthen accessibility throughout the country and short queues by giving the patient more power to choose inpatient care and where in the country he or she wants his or her surgery performed. Right here I think there is a dividing line in Swedish politics and between parties, Madam President. The line of arbitration is between us who want to give more power to the patient and those who want to limit it. It goes between us who see the private health business as an asset, and who both want and dare to provide opportunities to use all the available spare capacity, and those who think it is appalling that we have private alternatives. It goes between us who see the benefits of digital care and those who want to limit it. The draft budget presented and supported by the Center Party includes efforts in a number of important areas. Of course, I would like to tell you about them all, but in an eight-minute budget speech you do not have time for everything. Instead, I will focus on three different areas: accessible and close care in rural areas, equal and equal care and the mental health of young people. Madam President, I would like Accessibility is not just about care queues. Accessibility is about a lot more, for example a functioning primary care. Primary care is the patient's first step into the care chain and should be the patient's fixed point. No matter where in the country you live, you should feel confident that you have access to close care once you need it. Today, it can often be difficult to see a doctor or get a fixed doctor's contact, especially if you live in rural or sparsely populated areas. There is often less access than for those living in the city, for example. Two out of three health centres in sparsely populated areas have vacancies, and on average one out of three medical services is not filled. Access to healthcare must not differ depending on where in the country you live. Therefore, the Center Party wants to invest 1.1 billion annually in more doctors and more staff in primary care in sparsely populated parts of the country. Depending on local circumstances, regions can use the money in different ways. The regions can, for example, provide start-up support to small operators in their start-up and development of their activities. They can adapt their replacement systems to better pay the performers per patient in sparsely populated parts of the country. The money can also be used to create attractive conditions for the establishment of a health centre or branch in sparsely populated areas. We therefore want to give the regions more power and resources to actually be able to assume their responsibilities towards the citizens and to adapt health care to the conditions in which they operate. Madam President, I would like Having access to an ambulance is a matter of life and death and something that really affects people living in rural areas. It's about security. Especially for pregnant women who have a long journey to BB, this is a matter of safety. Unfortunately, in small towns, residents have experienced deteriorations in the availability of ambulances in recent years. Ambulances have been converted into emergency cars, and night ambulances have been removed. If we look at the response time for the ambulance in parts of Västerbotten, for example, we see that it has increased by about 13 percent since 2014. This is a development that we must break and remedy. Therefore, we want to invest an additional 300 million per year to get more ambulances to sparsely populated areas, with the aim of shortening the response time. Madam President, I would like Accessible care is not just about physical access to health centres or shorter queues. An exciting way to increase access to healthcare is through digital services, and digitalisation is an area where major steps have been taken during the pandemic. Digital development is warmly welcomed by the Center Party because it gives more power to the patient, both in terms of seeking care and linked to the freedom of choice when it comes to where you want to live and live. Last autumn I made a visit up in Saxnäs, which is located an hour and a half from Vilhelmina. As you can see, they have had great challenges in getting staff. Their challenge has been to have a firm doctor in the particular accommodation, but they have solved it in a fantastic way. They have a geriatric who is their fixed doctor and who makes the rounds digital. The doctor is on a screen and will accompany you to the patient. A nurse or nurse is the doctor's extended arm when needed. Both the staff and the elderly and their relatives are incredibly satisfied with this. Instead of spending time traveling, the doctor may spend more time talking with the patient and with relatives. I was deeply impressed by how well this actually works, and I think we should remind ourselves that digital care is no longer a secondary option. Instead, it is something that can compensate for the parts where we see that development is needed. Madam President, I would like I now come into the second area, namely equal and equal care. Here I would like to highlight the problem that healthcare is far from equal. There are very many examples from reality. Among other things, women have to wait longer for emergency medical care than men, despite similar symptoms. Women also receive shorter sick leave than men, despite similar conditions. Women also do not receive pacemakers as often, despite the same medical needs. These are just a few examples of inequalities that exist. Perhaps the most serious part is the treatment of heart attacks, where we see that women have twice as much excess mortality in heart attacks as men. We cannot accept that. The results of unequal care can be seen, among other things, in the form of billions of costs of maltreatment and sick leave, where women are over-represented. As a step towards actually tackling these challenges, the Center Party wants to invest 35 million in research on women's health in order to improve the knowledge situation. Madam President, I would like The third and last area I want to talk about is the mental health of children and young people. The Center Party has long raised the need to increase knowledge about mental illness. We want to improve accessibility in healthcare, we want to shorten the queues to bup and we want to give care and school more tools to meet more children and young people who feel bad. The reason we want to invest 100 million in next year and another 100 million in the year after is that we want to shorten the queues to bup. The figures in this area speak clearly: The number of children and young people diagnosed with depression or anxiety has increased very much in recent years. The latest survey, from 2018, shows that 41 percent of the 11-year-old girls and 30 percent of the 11-year-old boys feel ill at least twice a week. These are the highest figures that have been measured since the measurement began. It becomes even more serious if we look at the suicide rates: In the 15 - 24 age group, suicide is the most common cause of death. In 2019 168 children and young people killed themselves. There are three young people a week. These are issues we really need to take seriously, because far too many children and young people feel bad in today's Sweden. To conclude, I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and to say that we in the Center Party are, of course, behind our budgetary motion, as we have highlighted in the report by means of a separate opinion. We will abstain from the vote on the budget.
i-84127737242618d4-393	Madam President, I would like At the moment, 28 severely ill patients, including 19 children, are queuing to enter a private region-funded anorexia clinic. The median waiting period for children is 28 days, and the longest in line has been waiting for three months. These young – mostly girls – are seriously ill. When a newspaper calls there and claims to be a parent with a sick child, it gives them the opportunity to enter in private — within a week. The private customers pay SEK 12 000 per day, and the region pays SEK 2 681 per day. The severely ill patients are treated in inpatient care for an average of 55 days, and for private customers the average amount is SEK 1.2 million. This opportunity was revealed directly to those who called there, that is, private customers went ahead of everyone else without any assessment. You can think about that. It wasn't sickest at first. Unfortunately, that is the situation in some places. The children who go privately thus go ahead of those who come from the region, in this case the Stockholm region. It is going to be very backwards, and I wonder what Sofia Nilsson and the Center Party think about this.
i-84127737242618d4-397	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for lifting an incredibly serious situation! The Center Party has also drawn attention in its budget exercise to the concrete situation regarding specialist care for children and young people, for example regarding mental illness, and we want to invest 100 million in shorter queues in children's and young people's psychiatry. I think these parts are highly interrelated. We need to invest more in children and young people, in their mental health and in strengthening specialist care. It is clear that we have a shortage of this particular type of specialist care throughout the country. I do not think it is typical for Stockholm to lack places and skills in this rather narrow area with such an incredibly serious disease that affects children and young people. Of course, we should not tolerate inequalities. We should not tolerate unequal care in the country, something that I touched on in my speech. No matter where you live and how old you are, if you are a girl or a boy, a man or a woman, you must be able to have access to a relevant care that helps you in your situation.
i-84127737242618d4-402	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party's total confidence in the market is a bit strange to me. This is evident time and again in different contexts, because we have a completely unregulated market in Sweden. It's not your condition that determines whether you're first in line. Then this wouldn't have flowed up like this. It is of course about this clinic's ability to earn a little, or quite a lot, extra and perhaps let those who have money and can pay extreme amounts go ahead of other children who have a greater need. It's a huge problem, because it's going to be very unequal. I'm very worried about this, and I don't think I'm the only one who is. There will be some strange fluctuations here, but I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and hope that the Center Party and the Left Party can hook arms on the issues on which we agree.
i-84127737242618d4-406	Madam President, I would like I take the opportunity to wish Karin Rågsjö a Merry Christmas right from the start! The interesting thing about the whole discussion and the debate on private versus public is that we cannot, as it were, get a grip on these issues. This is, of course, about looking at the overall capacity of care that is actually in place in the country and not just staring at us blindly at the fact that there is no available capacity in the public sector, for example linked to the care queues. Instead, we should broaden, look at and open up to seek care and inpatient care throughout the country and also with the private sector. In fact, they stood with open arms and asked if they could help in the pandemic, for example. We must embrace this and use all available capacity instead of staring blind at only in public or just in private. We need to see the whole picture and be able to offer our patients and citizens care wherever the available capacity is.
i-84127737242618d4-410	Madam President, I would like Last year there was a trend in applause for the health and social care staff. All the parties were on. Better conditions for care and social services were mantras. This year we can look out over the chaos in, for example, maternity care that is hitting hard. We can see more hourly employees in elderly care than before and a public care that is drained in different places in Sweden. It will be cut down 1 billion in Skåne. In Stockholm, the right-wing majority will cut down on emergency hospitals. In Västra Götaland it should be cut down in round throws 1 billion in hospitals. This is happening despite huge surpluses. At the same time, bourgeois politicians go out blaming, for example, the birth chaos on the government. But it is not the government that is responsible for maternity care in Stockholm or elsewhere, but regional politicians. If you turn that stone around, if I'm not completely cycling, you can see that M and KD control in 13 regions and the Center in 19. Hourly employment in municipalities has increased. It's pretty macabre. Wouldn't we be protecting the elderly and building up solidly trained staff? Apart from certain exceptions, such as Södertälje, we do not see that this is the case. Madam President, I would like Welfare is underfunded. It is noticeable every day in the care with a shortage of staff. In care for the elderly, it's the same thing. The Institute of Economics estimates that in order to meet the standards we have today for Sweden's municipalities and regions, there is a need for 16 billion more in government grants in 2022. Then it is a little strange that the government in the budget bill only spends 3 billion in general state subsidies. The Left Party will therefore increase state subsidies by 10 billion next year, 15 billion the following year and 20 billion 2024. Why do we do that? It is necessary if we are to have a public health service to trust and an elderly care that benefits the elderly, Madam President. We can't keep cutting down. If we protect the staff, the patients and the elderly will also be protected. Madam President, I would like Everyone has the right to equal and good medical care. The basic principle is that care should be provided according to people's needs, not depending on whether you have private insurance or not. It should be possible to trust the health care we have – if I'm the sickest in the queue, I'll come first. Today there are huge differences in Sweden, both in terms of health and access to healthcare. It is about where we live in the country as well as about class, gender and age. The difference in life expectancy between different education groups increased from 4.4 years to 6 years in the period 2006– 2019. It is a huge setback, but it is also a clear indicator that unequal health belongs to class. Madam President, I would like Now it's about reclaiming public health care and care for the elderly and following the money. Where's the tax money going? Do they go to you and me? To my mother in the nursing home, to consultants, to the health market? Can we have an unregulated health market? What exactly do I get for the tax money? What do the staff say? They say that there are no margins anymore. When the responsible regional council in Stockholm, Iréne Svenonius, says that the staff managed the pandemic with existing resources, I want to answer all those who think it was great that it cost on. It cost me a lot of money! Health care is not planned for 100 percent capacity, but 80 percent or a little lower seems to be normal. Therefore, the elderly are also in the emergency wards hour after hour without getting help and end up in a health department. That's why not all health care centers make their commitments. Madam President, I would like In order to improve the working environment, strengthen skills and improve the conditions for employees, we want to add funds to a solid investment in health care in different ways. It is about government grants, but it is also targeted investments of 4 billion more than the government to strengthen both health care and staff. The staff is the gold. We have to remember that. Madam President, I would like The number of care places per inhabitant has been more than halved since 1994. In its draft budget, the Left Party has increased investment in health care and especially in regions with large rural areas. Actually, there we are a little bit like the Center Party. A national strategy is needed for a sufficient number of care places based on demographic needs, crisis preparedness and long-term skills needs. In sparsely populated regions, healthcare is more expensive, so that's where we charge 1 billion. When you are outside psychiatry and are extremely depressed, you should get in immediately and get help, medicine and therapy. We want to work to break the stigma of mental illness. The whole area of mental health needs to be upgraded so much more, and we are budgeting it for the long term. We also want to shift work on addiction issues and addiction care, which is partly under the ice. We have also budgeted for this in the long term. Show me your teeth, Madam President, and I can tell you what class you're from. The teeth are part of the body. In the long term, the Left Party wants to introduce high-cost protection in dental care. This means that costs over SEK 2 000 are fully subsidised over a twelve-month period. We propose introducing a national tariff for the most common treatments. This means a ceiling for what each treatment costs nationally, and it will be easier as a patient to see what we are paying for. It's pretty different today. This is a long-term initiative – nothing you fix for a financial year. We now enter with SEK 2.25 billion. You should be able to smile without being ashamed. This is a multi-annual initiative. Care for the elderly has long been under attack in terms of cuts. The staff means everything, but it's the ones it's saved on. People with the right skills can lift care for the elderly. Remove the poor working conditions, the low wages and the lack of influence! The nurses must be upgraded in terms of wages, education, health and safety. The Left also sees clearly that a great deal of resources is still needed to secure human resources, increase continuing training and improve working conditions. We have gone in with general state grants, but we have also negotiated – a little unusual, perhaps – more money for elderly care with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. We want to transform hourly contracts into permanent contracts and strengthen medical skills, and we also want more retirement homes to be built. TBE vaccine is expensive, and it's a class issue. The Left Party wants to introduce high-cost protection for adults. For children, vaccination should be completely free of charge. Otherwise, it'll be very expensive for a family of three... or just a child. A special effort is also needed to coordinate and focus knowledge of the treatment and diagnosis of postcovids at national level. The left-wing party's objective is to reduce the gap between general income levels and compensation levels for supply support. It's about the children and the children's perspective. We therefore increase the grant in our budget so that the national standard for subsistence support can be increased by SEK 500 per child-dwelling unit per month and SEK 200 per child per month. This is not a question of election winners at this time, but it is more a question of decency because relative child poverty is increasing. Unfortunately, violence against women is always a matter of concern. More women should be able to seek help from the social services and be placed in sheltered housing for a long time. That is what we are trying to budget for and create the conditions for. We also want independent women's shelters, and we propose an annual grant for women's shelters – which is worth gold. Madam President, I would like A society where inequality is increasing is a dangerous society. Where gaps increase, trust in the state decreases. The social contract is broken, torn apart, and we cannot afford it. Well, well-being does good. We shall protect the welfare and keep it free from the constant attempts of the market to rafferry. I am, of course, behind the Left Party's draft budget, and there is also a special opinion from us.
i-84127737242618d4-439	Madam President, I would like This debate is about health care, health and safety nets. First of all, I note that the most important thing for us liberals in terms of health and safety nets is actually outside this area of expenditure, namely preschool and school. A safe and good start is the best protection we can imagine. Speaking of children, our liberal budget also includes increased resources for home visit programmes from the Child Welfare Centre to prevent broken families. We are allocating money to the national support line for children, against sexual abuse and for support for those who are still exposed. At the same time, we see that all this is getting worse during a pandemic. In this budget – and in all our party budgets – the pandemic is over the lines, between the lines and along the lines, largely in each individual venture. We Liberals think that in the coming years the highest priority must be given to providing care to all those people who have renounced or had to wait during the pandemic. Those people need their help. Too many people have waited far too long. Too many have also had to work far too hard to provide care to all those who needed it. They have worked far too long without vacation and without rest. These people need more colleagues and more relief. There's nothing that can be solved in a hurry. We fully agree with that. It requires long-term efforts to catch up with this. Another long-term initiative that we believe is absolutely necessary, and which we are pleased to see in the budget that Parliament will adopt this afternoon, although unfortunately not ours, are the health care centres. We make the assessment that a long-term initiative is needed that runs for many years to come for more care places. Short-term investments, of course, do not help because it is not possible to hire a single person or raise a single salary if you only do so for two or three years. It doesn't work that way. Temporary investments do not produce long-term results when it comes to knowledgeable people. We also believe that a long-term effort is needed to bring care closer to the inhabitants, both small-scale care and the care that can still be large-scale in larger cities, and so on. There is a need for more family doctors, more knowledgeable general specialists with plenty of time for their patients and enough colleagues everywhere. This requires resources. We Liberals also want to increase the flat-rate compensation for state personal assistance. It is an obvious state responsibility. No one else can do this. It is the state that must stand for a libertarian, humane responsibility for personal assistance. Finally, I come to the question of the elderly. The safety net should be there all our lives, from the very first day to the last. But it has become brutally apparent, Madam President, that care for the elderly has been forgotten for far too long in our country. The virus became a sledgehammer against people who live in special housing. These people received restraining orders instead of security and care. We must not forget that, and together we must continue to fix the meshes in the net. Today, there are far too many people in the home service. This sometimes also applies to special accommodations. There is no support for municipalities to employ a medically responsible doctor who can conduct strategic analyses of what elderly care has and needs. It is as an employee difficult to gain knowledge, and it is also difficult to find enough already skilled people to hire. All of this must be arranged. One of the things that we liberals set aside in our budget is support for greater continuity and for a firm home care contact. We believe that it will improve working conditions and ultimately – which is of course most important – the sense of real security of the person who needs home care. Madam President, I would like The Liberals' draft budget is a coherent whole. As the Parliament in the framework decision has supported another budget, we will not be taking part in today's decision. But today, like all other days, we stand behind a policy of health, freedom and opportunity from the first day to the last day. With this, I wish the President, all my colleagues and all of you who are listening to a really merry Christmas.
i-84127737242618d4-452	Madam President, I would like I naturally agree with all our reservations in SoU1, but in order to gain time, I only ask for reservation 1, which concerns financial compensation. I also refer to a special statement by my party colleague, Emma Hult, which concerns the mental health of LGBTI people. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 9. It is about health care, health care and care. However, I will take this opportunity to dwell on matters relating to the elderly. Old age in society is a major problem. We in the Green Party believe that if we get to grips with this problem, many other problems will be considerably smaller. It is about views, self-esteem, how we respond to each other and what society we want. The fact that society is made up of people of different ages is nothing new, but we sometimes live as if it were. If society were more universally designed, fewer separate solutions would be needed. It's about doing the right thing from the start. This applies to the elderly and to people with disabilities, but also to others. When less special solutions are needed, society becomes more accessible to all. You feel belonging and you don't feel alienation. If we lived more after these deportations, it would have a strong impact on the efforts society needs to make especially for the elderly. It would be about completely different things. According to World Values Survey, a global research network, Sweden is one of the countries where there is the most ageism. According to their study, Sweden is the fifth worst in the world to respect older people. We see it in health care. We see it in the labour market. We will also see it in this House if we look around. This is to mention just a few examples. Old age and discrimination against older people must be reduced! Madam President, I would like Together with the Social Democrats, we have put forward several proposals for an improved and safe life for older and older people. Some of these are more money for municipalities and regions and an extension of the Elderly Care Lift, including for staff to be able to train as a nurse or assistant on paid working hours, as well as a permanent care contact in the home care service. This is for greater security and increased quality. Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that this year we in the Green Party have left a so-called committee motion that we call A richer life for the elderly. It deals with various proposals relating to older and older people's policies that we want to see in various areas. I'll mention some of them. Home care without a means test is one of the suggestions. The Green Party has contributed to a change in the Social Services Act that enables social services to offer home care without a need assessment to the elderly. Today, municipalities are allowed to introduce this option voluntarily. We want to strengthen it so that it becomes a general right throughout the country. Another issue is involuntary loneliness. We would like to see a national strategy against involuntary loneliness inspired, among other things, by the United Kingdom. This also includes measures for older people to enjoy things that bring joy with others. Some examples include being able to eat together, then also being able to smell and taste the food, being able to eat together at a restaurant in close connection with the accommodation or eating at schools. The important thing is to avoid eating alone and avoid that the food consists of something heated in a plastic box. It is also about not having to go to external shopping centres to do errands without being able to do them in their own neighborhood and there also easily be able to meet others. A third proposal concerns LGBTI people. It should be obvious that you can continue to be who you are even though you have moved into a dwelling, but today it is not so obvious. There are many testimony from people who feel they are forced to crawl back into the closet. Actually, we can't have that. It should be obvious that everyone who works with older people has knowledge of LGBTii. There could also be specific LGBTI homes for those who want to live like that. It can also attract staff who would like to work there. For the rest, we should end once and for all with the It becomes a we-and-dom perspective that is unreasonable. It might as well be an older person– not because I'm very young, but imagine an even older – who stood here in the speaker's chair and said That would never happen, but it still shows how preposterous it is. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by expressing the loss we will feel for a very special person. It is Barbro Westerholm, who, with his years-long experience, has meant a great deal to us in this House but also to a great many outside it. There are many of us who will miss you, Barbro! Madam President, I would like This is my fourth debate in two days. That is why I have some memory problems, so I do not know if I have wished a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to the President and the President's colleagues and cabinet. I'll take it safe for the insecure and do it now. I would also like to say this to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, and I would like to thank the President-in-Office in particular very much for his kind response.
i-84127737242618d4-470	Madam President, I would like Parliament decides on the budget in two steps. First the framework is decided, and then work is ongoing in the committees to clarify the content. That is the part of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment that we are debating and will decide on today. Basically, there is the government's budget bill. As far as the Committee on Social Affairs is concerned, it contains several good things. In the complement that was worked out by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates and which were then negotiated with the Swedish Democrats, we did not find reason to remove anything from the Government's proposal, but we want to add more efforts. I will now tell you something about the investments we propose to be made in Category 9. We propose a special effort to increase the number of care places. It starts with SEK 425 million in 2022 and then increases annually so that in 2024 it is up to 1 1⁄2 billion in a special investment in more health care places. For a long time, Sweden has reduced the number of care places. In part, it is a natural development when more can be done as day surgery or with effective drugs that reduce the need for insertion. It's a good development. But it has been drawn too far, and at the beginning of the pandemic it was clear that we have too few health care places as a basic level. Sweden is at the bottom when comparing European countries in terms of care places. The consequences for patients and staff are evident when there are too few care places. National governance is required for more care places, and it is not in order to stop the development with more close care or the use of day surgery. It is a national effort to ensure that we have a reasonable basic level of health care. We don't have that today. What is missing are staff and staff with the right skills. That is why we propose an effort throughout the budget period to increase the number of care places. How it is done must be determined locally, in the business. But government resources are being provided to contribute to development with more care places. That it will also be so must be followed up. We propose that work on a national health care agency should start. It is a matter of visibility of spare capacity, regardless of where in the country it is located, so that patients who have received a medical assessment that they need an operation or treatment and waited more than the 90 days of the guarantee can, if they want, seek care where there is spare capacity. We also propose that a reimbursement be given to patients who need to travel a longer distance. It must be possible for everyone, regardless of their own income, to receive care elsewhere where available capacity exists. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased with the effort that can now start on a broad scale and that means that we can eliminate cervical cancer. It's possible! The government chose not to include the initiative in its budget even though a united parliament called on the government to do so. However, in the budget complements that we are now making, we propose that funds be added to enable complementary screening and vaccination. The work is also well on the way in that the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have prepared the issue. So it is a fantastic opportunity that is now opening up! We can eliminate cervical cancer within five to six years, provided the initiative is maintained. We can also eliminate HIV. Both cervical cancer and HIV are caused by viruses. Thus, unlike the corona virus, it is possible today to eliminate both cervical cancer and HIV. A particular political leadership is needed to achieve this. That is why we are providing funds, even here with an escalation, towards 75 million annually, in order to strengthen this work and update the national strategy. Together with civil society organisations, we can go further, and we should have the goal of eliminating HIV by 2030. Madam President, I would like We propose to strengthen resources for care for the elderly beyond the Government's proposal with the aim of removing shared tours. There are good bets in the budget bill. They come from the government itself and in part from the proposal for an initiative put forward by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party in the Riksdag. This has led to an annual reinforcement of nearly 4 billion to care for the elderly in order to increase medical skills, to improve working conditions and to build more adapted housing. We are now increasing resources with the declared goal of removing shared tours. If it is to succeed, more resources are needed. However, it is worrying that, despite Parliament's decision to increase resources for elderly care, there is not enough. The Social Affairs Committee has agreed that special resources for care for the elderly should be allocated to care for the elderly – not to the construction of new town halls or anything else. The question is: What does the government do to ensure that resources go there, to increase medical skills, to better working conditions and to the possibility of building more adapted accommodations? Madam President, I would like In the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, we have two more parts. It is partly the so-called follow-up of results and partly our assessment of announcements. Let me start with the last part. In the budget bill, the government announces what announcements they consider to be met and that they therefore do not need to work with any more. Here the majority of the committee does not agree with the government in all its parts. It is about the work on LGBTQ people's mental health and about financial compensation for those who are adversely affected by decided restrictions with support in pandemic laws. It is about general authorisation requirements, and it is about emergency hospitals. We are concerned about the situation of emergency hospitals in line with increasingly highly specialised care. The collection of certain highly specialised medical care is self-evident, but it is equally important for medical reasons to secure sufficient documentation for emergency hospitals in the country. We must do both, and the committee wants to see a government impact assessment so that we can assess the situation. The results follow-up shows that the Social Affairs Committee criticises the way in which the government has worked to monitor results in the care of the elderly. The budget proposal lacks indicators for staffing and skills in the care of the elderly. We need to know better what it looks like so that we can follow developments and see that the money invested has an impact on the elderly and the staff. There is also a lack of information on how we can meet the objective of equal care. These comments are submitted to the Government by a unanimous committee. All in all, Madam President, the Christian Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal, which involves an increase in the number of care places and the launch of a national health agency. Furthermore, it means that we can begin the elimination of cervical cancer and strengthen work on HIV and an updated strategy for this. Finally, resources are available to strengthen care for the elderly. With this, I would also like to thank everyone in the committee for their very good work. It is always nice to meet the members of the committee, the deputy in office and everyone else. Thank you, too, to the staff of the committee office, to the Presidium of Presidents and to all those who serve here!
i-84127737242618d4-489	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has pushed through a recovery bonus. It is a model aimed at promoting a sustainable working life in both health and long-term care. It should be about initiatives that come from below. So far, 249 billion has been distributed... sorry, I mean millions! I'd love to see billions, but okay, I'll have to settle for millions. Thus, 249 million have been distributed to 190 municipalities and 16 regions. This has led, among other things, to new ways of planning schedules, to e-learning platforms and wellness, to name a few. My question to Mr Ankarberg Johansson is: Would it not have been better simply to increase the recovery bonus instead of creating another subsidy?
i-84127737242618d4-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Fransson, for the question. It can be seen in part that this goes hand in hand. It is also important in this respect to have more care places. If we constantly live with overcrowding or that the patient is cared for in the wrong department, it leads to patient risks. But it also leads to an unsustainable working environment for staff. In the long run, the Christian Democrats want a different approach, in which we actually pay for the fact that there is some air in the system. In the longer term, we would like to find such a measure. But what we need to start with now is to increase the number of care places. This in itself will improve the working environment when you do not have to spend more time constantly rationing care, but have time to give it to the patients they need. However, we are not making any changes in terms of the recovery bonus. It's excellent. However, it goes in a broader way and also needs to be used a little differently than for precisely what is about the need for more care places. For me, these are not two different things, but both are needed.
i-84127737242618d4-496	Madam President, I would like This is not really linked to care places. My question is based on the fact that I still feel a concern that an additional contribution risks leading to a loss of focus on the recovery bonus. It's new, so it needs time to sit down. It builds, as you yourself mention, on a slightly different model. However, if the initiative comes from below, that model can also be used to remove, for example, shared tours. Do you share my concerns about the different types of bets, and can you imagine working to increase just the recovery bonus and merge these?
i-84127737242618d4-499	I would remind the honourable Member that we are speaking through the President.
i-84127737242618d4-500	Madam President, I would like I think we need to start a national governance for more care places. Progress has been going in the wrong direction for a very long time. There must be national pressure to increase the number of care places. It will improve patient safety. It will also improve the working environment. It is long-term work that needs to last a long time. The recovery bonus is, however, linked to the enormous effort that staff have made during the pandemic and affects wider areas than only those linked to hospitals. Therefore, it is important that the recovery bonus exists. On the other hand, it is always problematic when we have many different special-destined state subsidies. That is why we should look at what can be merged, and we will do so in the spring. When you bring it together, you have an increased opportunity to do what is right. But if we don't tell them what to do with the money, they can go to new town halls. The money must go to care for the elderly and to more care places, so that we actually get better care for the elderly and more care places.
i-84127737242618d4-504	Madam President, I would like We are also behind more care places. We need to increase the number of care places, and this is about staff, not about beds or rooms. However, I am rather worried. At the same time as we stand here, we will make major cuts in the Stockholm region, Västra Götaland and Skåne. That's exactly where you cut down on the emergency hospital staff. In those regions, the Christian Democrats also rule. These regions also have extreme surpluses. How are we to ensure that you cannot have mountains of money behind you while cutting down and at the same time accepting new money to hire more people? I am not getting this right, but I hope that Mr Ankarberg Johansson, whom I very much appreciate as chairman of the committee, has a very good answer. You cannot have 7 billion in surplus and cut the staff of all emergency hospitals while bringing more money from the state. There's got to be some kind of override somewhere, and I don't know how we're gonna fix it.
i-84127737242618d4-507	Madam President, I would like I share Mrs Rågsjö's concern that care places are being reduced. If staff are cut down, there will be fewer care places. There will be more overcrowding. Staff will need to spend more time arranging gender and rationing care instead of providing care. This goes hand in hand. One of the keys is that you control where the money goes. The money we propose for care places should not be paid out unless there are more care places. We must have national governance that leads in that direction. It is wrong to have a wealth building in both municipalities and regions. Of course, they should have a budget that holds together, and I know that one region or another needs to spend its surplus on covering public transport deficits and such things. However, we also need to have governance so that you do not have a wealth building, but that in the long term you use your money for what they are meant to do. Therefore, we are very clear that the money will go to more care places. Otherwise, you don't get any money at all. They're not supposed to go to town hall or fill empty holes. Point.
i-84127737242618d4-510	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think this money is going to New Town Hall. Instead, they can go to a great many more friends in the private sector, we believe. The Stockholm region has 7 billion in surplus and is still cutting down on emergency hospitals. It is the same in Skåne and Västra Götaland. I just had time to make a round before the pandemic struck again. Staff are on their knees completely because of constant cuts. The applause has really stopped in these regions. I'm incredibly worried. It will be interesting to see if you can follow this money. The obvious thing would be that regions with 7 billion in surplus should be able to account for what the money should be used for before they receive new state subsidies.
i-84127737242618d4-513	Madam President, I would like I will say that it is in Jönköping municipality that the majority have now decided to build a new town hall. It really felt wrong in view of the challenges you face. Maybe I should have mentioned it. I wasn't referring to Region Stockholm. We're in complete agreement. The money we give to care for the elderly or to more care places must go to that. They can't fall out anywhere else. We cannot first receive the Corona Commission's report and go about it together and then get back to work exactly as we usually do, but there must be a change. There must be reinforcements in care for the elderly, and there must be more care places. Had we entered the pandemic with a higher basic level, I think we would have done even better. We did well thanks to the staff, but if we had had more care places from the beginning we would have had a better situation. We have to make it possible. This money can contribute to this. They don't solve the situation, but they contribute to it.
i-84127737242618d4-517	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for your speech! One area in which we really share the commitment is equal and equal care. We also share a strong commitment to cancer care and prevention. Some where we see a great inequality is the mammography. We see that women of different ethnic backgrounds do not heed mammography calls to the same extent as our Swedish women. What concerns me in the budget that Mrs Ankarberg Johansson is now talking about is that the Christian Democrats are only spending 50 plus 25 million on information campaigns in relation to mammography. Instead of spending 300 million on mammography and cancer screening, there are only 50 plus 25 million for mammography. What I also miss is about the early discovery of cancer screenings. There we can also see inequality where we are slipping back now after the pandemic. I would like to hear a reflection on this. How does Mrs Ankarberg Johansson think that an information campaign will meet the needs that actually exist?
i-84127737242618d4-520	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Nilsson, for the questions and for giving me a chance to tell you about the Christian Democrats' own alternative, which is not on the table today but which I naturally support! Mammography is free today. Yet we do not reach all women. You don't leave anyway. This means that there are reasons to work on the question why you don't. There has also been a follow-up by the National Board of Health and Welfare, which concluded that it is difficult to know whether the freedom of contribution has even been important. Probably we need much more outreach to reach women and tell them why mammography is good. Sometimes there may be fears in front of the mammography. Sometimes there may be uncertainty as to what it means to be told that you may have cancer or something that needs to be treated. So it takes quite a lot of work from healthcare to reach women and tell them about the situation. That's the background to our investment in that part. It may well be that the bet needs to be bigger. But above all, we want to send a signal that we need more money in this area. It is not enough for mammography to be free of charge, but we must also take more steps so that, as Mr Nilsson says, all women have a chance at mammography. However, this is not part of the common budget that we are discussing today. I'd love to have seen it, but I'm more soulful of reaching somewhere. I'm more interested in being able to make more bets, and then I work with the parties that feel the same. I am pleased that we have been able to make investments in cervical cancer, HIV, care places and other things. But I am happy to come back to efforts in mammography and at all to reach women who are rarely reached by this particular type of effort. I would be happy to come back to Mr Nilsson on that.
i-84127737242618d4-525	Madam President, I would like I really think it is still very important that we have free mammography. Although we are making an information campaign and getting more women to come there, it needs to be free of charge in the future as well. I think we share that view, but I miss that we are actually making an effort on the mammography. We can go back to cancer screening, where we put 300 million. I find it worrying that we are not making a greater effort because we can see that there are many who have hesitated to seek treatment during the pandemic. The signal has been: Stay home if you have a cold and sick! I think there is a damp need in terms of cancer screening. Again, how does Mrs Ankarberg see that we will be able to solve this if we do not spend more money on cancer screening?
i-84127737242618d4-528	Madam President, I would like I would be happy to return in talks with the Center Party on how we can do this, because that is a priority area. To succeed, you have to make sure that people come to care, that they are tested and that they can ask: Is it possible that I have a tumor or any other change that requires treatment? All the way into primary care is important, and early detection is important. Once I've got that discovery, it's all about me being treated, too. So the whole chain of care must work if we are to succeed in this. Screening is a complementary measure that is absolutely fantastic because it can make this early detection. We'll be happy to discuss this in the future. I am happy to come back to how we improve mammography, but I think the most important thing right now is that we make sure that the investments we make are for real around the country. That is why I welcome more things that many parties can do together, so that we can put pressure on it to actually happen throughout the country. So perhaps we can be more people in the future who are making the effort to strengthen the national cancer strategy.
i-84127737242618d4-532	Madam President, I would like It is time to close another year soon and to close the year with another budget debate. 2021 is the second year with the coronapndemine and a world that struggles to keep up with the virus's fluctuations. At the same time, it is a year of hope. We got vaccines to fight the virus with, and older and risk groups after many months of isolation finally got to meet their loved ones. For Sweden, a great deal has happened. A historically very weak government has been replaced by an even weaker one. Sweden is struggling with Europe's worst gang crime, where recruitment to the criminal networks is creeping further and further down the ages. Shooting is one of the most common news flashes, and we are identified as Europe's most dangerous country. It is a country with major integration problems and with frightening numbers of students who fail to pass school. Then I mention only some of Sweden's major problems. To this, and many other things, should be added that there are 180 000 people in line in Swedish health care. This is a situation which, of course, the pandemic has worsened and deepened but which in no way is a new phenomenon in Sweden. On the contrary, longer medical queues always seem to follow a social democratic government's ownership and the political paralysis associated with it. The fact is that before the pandemic we stood with doubled medical queues and tripled queues to bup. We Moderates, Madam President, will always be on the patient's side. As a patient in Sweden, you should receive treatment on time. As a patient in Sweden, you should receive high quality care. As a patient in Sweden, you should receive high quality care regardless of gender, sexual orientation or place of residence. Care should not be a postcode lottery. Madam President, I would like In the draft budget that we are now debating, we are investing Moderates, together with KD and SD 3.4 billion more in health care, with a focus on shortening the growing healthcare queues in the next three years. 2.9 billion is added to strengthen the capacity for care and the number of places where it is needed. These are extremely important resources in order to carry out more operations and efforts for those who have suffered and expected unreasonable times and whose illness or injury has worsened while they were expecting. To use the country's overall capacity as optimally as possible, a national health care agency is established with the aim of enabling patients who have waited more than 90 days to receive their surgery in a region other than their home region and reimbursement of their travel expenses. 250 million is being contributed to this. I am pleased that there are several of us who have been able to clearly describe this, as Mr Bladelius was unable to read this in the very clear budget document. But perhaps it was because the honourable Member was trying to read on a napkin. It does not say it, but it says it in the document that we are going to decide on in a little while. Madam President, I would like I am particularly pleased with two parts of the budget which are moderate issues of the heart. One is the eradication of cervical cancer, and the other is enhanced HIV prevention. With regard to cervical cancer, we presented a so-called committee initiative together with the KD on 4 February. As a result, the Social Affairs Committee issued an announcement to the Government that, within the framework of a new updated national cancer strategy, the Government will implement a national initiative in the form of an action plan to eliminate cervical cancer within a maximum of seven years. Now, through the budget on the table of Parliament, there are also the economic conditions for Sweden to become one of the very first countries in the world to eradicate this. 25 million may seem like a small sum in such a large budget, but that is what it takes to achieve this amazing goal. Let this just be the first of the cancer diagnoses that we eradicate and that it should be followed by more! Madam President, I would like Sweden has historically been very successful in combating HIV. This made Sweden the first country in the world to achieve UNAIDS and WHO's 90-90-90 targets. In 2016, however, the Red-Green Government decided to halve the funding for HIV prevention. Without justification, without warning and without analysis, half the budget was withdrawn at very short notice. This has had huge consequences, not least at regional and local level, where much of the important work is being done. This, of course, affects the people who live with HIV. It has also had a very negative impact on HIV prevention. The effort must be restored, and we are now doing so in three stages of this budget. In order for Sweden's national strategy against HIV and AIDS to remain up-to-date, it needs to be updated. Preventive treatment, access to more generous testing, abolition of information obligations and clearer wording on the need for good living conditions to be included in such an update. In addition to strengthening preventive work, this would be a very important signal to reduce the stigmatisation experienced by people with HIV. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic and not least in the Corona Commission's first report, several structural problems in the care of the elderly became very clear. Therefore, among other things, the signals that more nurses are employed in the care of the elderly are very pleasing. Medical skills need to be strengthened, and more needs to be done. But this is an important step along the way. In order to achieve greater continuity and to improve working conditions and increase the attractiveness of health and social care, things that shared tours need to be counteracted, and therefore we invest 300 million SEK in our budget in 2022, which then increases to 600 million from 2023 onwards. To work to break older people's involuntary loneliness, SEK 25 million per year is allocated to associations that work with this. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased with the joint efforts we make. In conclusion, however, I would like to mention a few moderate cane horses on which we will continue to work hard to get our cooperation parties involved and which I hope will be included in the next joint draft budget. It is about investing in new and more effective drug treatments and immune, cell and gene therapies. This is about a continued focus on childhood cancer care. We want to increase the funding by an additional 80 million because the treatment differs greatly between adults and children. We want to make major investments in a comprehensive women's health care system. We also want, as I think is well known, to make a special effort on vulnerable children. It's a real heart issue for the Moderates and me, and there needs to be a lot of work done. That is why, Madam President, I support the proposal in the Committee's budget report for Category 9. I would also like to wish Merry Christmas to the fine colleagues in the Social Affairs Committee, to the always fantastic committee office, to the President with the office, to the struggling health care staff and to everyone else who works so that we can safely celebrate Christmas and to everyone else.
i-84127737242618d4-555	Madam President, I would like What the honourable Member, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, described was very well-lucky, but sometimes I really wonder on which patients' side the Moderates really stand. The Moderates promote health insurance and think it's great. Is this about private health insurance, which means that private health care providers who have agreements with the regions also have patients with private insurance? It's the same staff that takes care of the patients, and guess who goes first! That's what you look at these days. The honourable Member talked about the children who are vulnerable, and I was going to mention the clinic I spoke about earlier. It is the largest clinic that works with children and young people with anorexia, and it is tax-funded. According to the law, priority should be given to the most sick patients. However, it has been shown that this is not the case in a media follow-up, but that it is those who can pay who have to take the lead. So it is not the most sick principle that applies first. I must say that I am very concerned about this development. It will reinforce the great inequality that we can already see. We are not against private alternatives, but we want to be able to follow the money. I'll tell you what our tax money is for. Of course, they're supposed to go to the sickest ones. They'll come first. If you expand the impact of the market on the entire health care system, we will see more varieties of this kind. Then, of course, Madam President, how do the Moderates and, in particular, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall see that the most ill is not really true at first, but that in some places it is the richest first?
i-84127737242618d4-560	Madam President, I would like We share the view that it must never be the wallet that governs Swedish health care, Mr Rågsjö. We have a clear health law, and it should be followed. I've never stood here and turned around for any health insurance. I can assure you that, in all the contexts in which I have participated, we have talked about the need to ensure that there is a tax-funded welfare that should be equal for everyone, regardless of what you earn. I am extremely concerned that we have healthcare that is not equal, that it matters where in the country you live and whether you are a woman or a man and that there are other socio-economic elements that also matter. That is why we are putting forward proposals to strengthen it so that it will look more equal over the country. That is why we are strengthening the budget. I can assure Mr Rågsjö that the Moderates have no other opinion than that it should of course be as the Health Act says, that it is the sickest who should go first.
i-84127737242618d4-563	Madam President, I would like I'm skeptical about that, I have to say. It is enough to live in my right-wing region to see who is going first and what efforts are being made and to understand that the policy pursued verbally by the Moderates is not really connected with the policy pursued in reality. It's a matter of walking the talk, so to speak. What the honourable Member says sounds good, but if you look back in moderate documents you can see that it is obvious that the Moderates are turning a lot for insurance solutions and so on. This will strengthen unequal care. There are more and more examples of how money makes you go ahead in different queue systems. It is clear that if you have a system of private health insurance that keeps those who have these insurance policies going ahead, it will be a very unequal country in which we live.
i-84127737242618d4-565	Madam President, I would like I am concerned that Mr Rågsjö says that he does not oppose alternatives and private choices, while it is very easy to understand that this is what Mr Rågsjö thinks. We can say that if we had not had, among other things, private research pharmaceutical companies, we would not have really been in the situation we are in right now. There are many different examples, not least the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's quality measurements, which show that the quality of privately run retirement homes is higher than that of municipally run homes in terms of 18 out of 20 comparable quality parameters. So I think it would be a good idea if we were to take a decent look at the debate and also see what a fantastic asset we have in these private options. The difference between Moderates and Left Partyists is that we want to ensure that people can choose.
i-84127737242618d4-568	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has pushed through the recovery bonus, which is a model aimed at promoting a sustainable working life. It applies to both health care and health care and can go to both regions and municipalities. It has been paid 249 million to 190 municipalities and 16 regions. Some examples are new ways to plan schedules, e-learning platforms and wellness. My question to the honourable Member, Madam President, is: would it not be better simply to increase the recovery bonus instead of developing and creating another subsidy?
i-84127737242618d4-571	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We have a situation where we have 180,000 people in care lines. It is people who are unable to work. Of course, as they have to wait longer and longer for health care, it will take longer for them to recover, and more and more health care will be required. I therefore believe that there is a great deal more that we need to do. I do not think that one initiative needs to exclude the other. However, it is clear that we need to have a higher degree of national governance. We need to develop a lot in order for people to get their very important recovery. We need to develop, not least, digital care. Such efforts also need to be made. I would like to send a question back to Mrs Fransson: does the Green Party not see the need to be able to invest in, among other things, more care places and a higher care capacity and to make a number of different efforts to cut care queues? What specifically does the Green Party want to do to cut off the long care queues?
i-84127737242618d4-575	Madam President, I would like Care places are of course part of a very large puzzle that needs to be done. But I will come back to my question on the recovery bonus. I am concerned that another contribution will result in a loss of focus on the recovery bonus. This is a new model that needs to sit down, and it is also a different construction. It is the working groups themselves, i.e. from below, that will produce proposals based on the needs of the workplace. This could be about removing shared tours. Mr President, I would like to I wonder whether the honourable Member shares my concern on this point, and whether the honourable Member will be willing to work to increase the recovery bonus.
i-84127737242618d4-578	Mr President, I would like to What we know is that, during the pandemic, we have learned in very many different ways to organise care in a different way. Digitalization is an important part of this. I believe that one of the major and important challenges right now is that we should not return to what the situation was like before the pandemic began. Now we need to focus on finding these new ways of working that benefit both staff and patients. This will mean that we actually use the resources and time of our staff in a different way. It is precisely there that the effort in terms of shared tours is so important. It is an example of how we have to work to simply make better use of our staff's resources and time.
i-84127737242618d4-580	Mr President, I would like to I note that, time and again, Mr Grönvall speaks out in favour of protecting Swedish health care and reducing queues. She also speaks warmly for the 800 million extra in M's, KD's and SD's napkin drawings – although I understand that the honourable Member does not like that name. The honourable Member is, of course, free to do so. But I want to be clear to those who listen to this debate and explain that in the vast majority of all regions in Sweden, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's party is ruling. And in all regions of Sweden a surplus is made in the budget. We have no government control of the Swedish budget that the honourable Member is trying to give the impression of. It is the politicians who govern health policy in each region. And in the majority of all regions the Moderates are governed, and in the majority of all regions there are large surpluses. Yet there are major cuts in health care. In Skåne they make cuts at the university hospital with over 500 million SEK. The budget we are debating in this House today is 113 billion, of which 800 million is extra from M, KD and SD. As I said, you can of course stand in this House and talk warmly in order to reduce the queues in Swedish health care. At the same time, however, one must talk to one's peers in the regions and make sure that they do their part in the important work of reducing queues and not putting money on the high.
i-84127737242618d4-585	Mr President, I would like to I take the liberty of saying that I find this somewhat disrespectful to these, as Mrs Bladelius knows, well-prepared and substantiated proposals. These are proposals and issues that the parties behind them have been working on and pushing for a long time. To then speak so derogatory about this is on a level that I think Mr Bladelius should stay over. But it is also very clear that the focus is on continuing to blame. We have seen this as a strategy, not least throughout the pandemic. There has also been a coherent focus in the speeches made today by the Member of the Social Democrats. One might think that, among other things, the comments made by the Corona Commission could make the Social Democrats keep a slightly lower profile and perhaps show a slightly higher degree of humility. But, you know, this is by far the most disrespectful of all the groups to which special efforts are made in this budget. I note that Mr Bladelius, although on several occasions I repeated my questions about why the Social Democratic and Red-Green Government has halved the resources for HIV prevention, not with a single answer could respond to this. Is it not positive that we are now investing in these groups? Do not the women who have cervical cancer and the people who live with HIV deserve these efforts? Do they not deserve an answer, Mr Bladelius?
i-84127737242618d4-590	Mr President, I would like to It is nevertheless remarkable that, in this change of line, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall chooses to use words such as blaming herself when she has just spoken in the speaker's chair, in which she blamed the government for the failures of Swedish health policy in 90 per cent of the entire speech. But it is the Moderates themselves who rule in the majority of all regions. And the majority of all regions go with large surpluses, but they then choose to make major cuts in staff. 180 000 people are currently in the care line. They deserve that the money sent from the state is also used and not put on high or used for other things. You're responsible for that, Camilla Walterson Grönvall.
i-84127737242618d4-592	Mr President, I would like to Looking back historically, I would like to ask Mr Bladelius whether there is an analysis in his own party or whether he has reflected on the fact that when the Alliance Government took over in 2006, there were over 120 000 people in line. And not long after the turn of the government in 2014, the queues increased sharply again. And it is a fact that before the pandemic we had again doubled medical queues and tripled queues for child and youth psychiatry. It matters who leads and rules the country. I wonder – it must be a rhetorical question – if you have done any analysis and reflection on the fact that it looks like this once again when you lead the country.
i-84127737242618d4-594	Mr President, I would like to I can certainly say that the Social Affairs Committee is working to the last. We are last in the semester in this House and have an extraordinary committee meeting on Tuesday. I can certainly say that we are in it, Mr President. I would like to start by thanking all my colleagues in the committee for a productive semester with many interesting meetings about big and small. Very well! Today we are debating the Committee's framework for Category 9. It is a large expenditure area covering elderly care, health care, disability policy, the Social Services Act and more. I would like to take this opportunity to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. Mr President, I would like to I was going to start by dwelling on the huge queues we have in Sweden to get access to healthcare. The Swedish democrats have long pushed the line that the current health guarantee must be renewed, developed and supplemented. It is also something that we have had in our budgets before. It is simply unworthy of a welfare country like Sweden to keep people waiting illegally for a long time for care. We need to cut queues, create more care capacity and improve the quality of Swedish healthcare. Although the 90-day healthcare guarantee has been statutory since 2010, it is a fact that the care queues today are up to 183 days. It is therefore unreasonable and illegal to wait in line. As mentioned earlier, the government often wishes to point out that this sex is a corona queue. Of course, countless operations have been cancelled during the pandemic, but the queues were a fact far earlier than that. I have talked to several people who have been more or less in financial crisis because of the queues, because you cannot go back to work until you have received the necessary care. There are simply rings on the water and other consequences in addition to the long waiting period. In Sweden's Municipalities and Regions' waiting time database, it is reported that 51 per cent have had to wait longer than the 90 days of surgery or specialised care measures during September 2021. It is therefore quite clear that, despite its legal status, the guarantee of care is not being complied with. More needs to be done here. I do not really think there is any party in this House that thinks otherwise either. In the joint budget that we have presented together with the Moderates and KD, we highlight special investments in the healthcare guarantee. It is a priority, Mr President. In order to overcome the increase in care queues, we are committed to establishing a national care agency with a national waiting list. The National Board of Health and Welfare should be given special coordination responsibility for the care queues, and we want a national waiting list to be introduced for those treatments and operations where the queue time is at its longest. For those who have expected more than 90 days, it should be possible to apply for care where available, regardless of where and in which region it becomes. We simply need a system that compiles and makes visible the available healthcare capacity in the country. This should be a matter for all parties, I think. No one should have to die in the care queue in the welfare country that we are so keen to point out that we are, and I am pleased that efforts are now being made to go a step in the right direction. We set aside SEK 50 million to get to this health care agency. It also includes investments in medical travel for patients who need to seek treatment in another region. There is something that does not exist today. As I said, we have a long-term ambition to increase this amount to 100 million for 2023 and 2024 respectively. We from the Swedish Democrats also want to say in this context that we want the statutory health guarantee, which is currently 90 days, to be reduced to 30 days in the long term. So this is about the time you have to wait for access to healthcare after decisions have been taken. However, this is an issue that we must highlight in other contexts, because it is not something that can be found in today's budget. In order to succeed in short-term care, we also see the need to free up more care capacity in addition to coordination and that care can be provided in another region. We are investing in the budget in particular so that the regions of the country can employ more staff, so that we have more accessible and accessible care places. It is now a fact that it is simply the lack of staff that makes, for example, halls empty. There is much to do before we reach world-class healthcare, Mr President. However, as on so many other important issues, it is also important to highlight and pay tribute today to the staff working in the care of the elderly and in the health care sector. The fact that they actually make heroic efforts on a daily basis is not something we should forget. They have also taken a huge responsibility, not least during the pandemic, which has been a major challenge in many parts of the country. They have stood steady despite the lack of materials and beds and despite the many hours of overtime – they have rolled up their sleeves and worked. I would like to express my particular thanks to you. Mr President, I would like to It is also a fact that there is a need for intervention both from a patient's perspective and from a staff perspective. As far as the patient perspective is concerned, I have just mentioned both the care queues and accessibility. I will now take the opportunity to focus a little on the staff perspective. There too, there is a need for action, which I also know there is support for. There is another area in this budget where I am very pleased that we have agreed. This is the question of reducing the split tours in care for the elderly. We really need to ensure that the working environment is at the top, Mr President. We also have a profession that is heavily dominated by women. Shared tours are a phenomenon that is very stressful for the individual, not least if it happens for a long time. Everyday and leisure time is divided between the passports. The conditions for continuous leave are deteriorating as the day is picked up in some sense. This is bad, Mr President. There are certainly individuals who think that this works for the moment, perhaps even in the longer term, Mr President, but it is still an unreasonable working situation in the long run. If there had not been a split tour, very few people would have asked for such a working day, I dare say. We from the Swedish Democrats have long focused on the issue of removing the involuntary shared tours. It is therefore particularly gratifying that we can stand here today and see that our policy becomes a reality in some sense. We are investing 300 million in the first year so that the municipalities can really work to eliminate the shared tours or at least reduce them initially. Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to go after the Social Democrats a little bit. Something that fascinates me a little is that recently at their congress they decided to again go to elections to abolish the shared tours. The problem is that the Social Democrats promised exactly the same for both the 2014 elections and the 2018 elections. Now we stand here, to this day, and nothing dramatic has happened. I think it is an achievement in itself that the Social Democrats manage to push the issue before not just one election but two elections and then fail to achieve any change even though they are in government power. As I said, we are now allocating funds for municipalities to be able to work towards reducing the shared tours, and I am pleased about that. It is well worth mentioning, Mr President, that an opposition budget would be needed to combat truly shared tours. I see that I am beginning to exceed my speaking time, so I will skip some of what I intend to say in my speech. As I began by saying, Category 9 is an extremely broad area that includes very important things that I would like to mention here today, but my time is limited. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight, for example, the work of the Swedish Democrats with children placed, which is an extremely important issue, and the issue of international adoptions, which have also been very well debated over the past year. I would also like to highlight areas such as preventing violence in close relationships and ensuring that our protected accommodation is precisely sheltered accommodation. Young people placed on Sis should receive the necessary care and care, and disabled people should receive the necessary support and care. Mr President, I would like to Today we are last out in the semester in the Chamber. We have limited time at our disposal, and I am therefore going to round off. I would like to take this opportunity to express my particular thanks to the Bureau, which has done an excellent job this year.
i-84127737242618d4-617	Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party have pushed through the recovery bonus, and to be very clear this time, I would like to say that we have done so together with the Social Democrats. The model aims to promote a sustainable working life in healthcare. This applies to both the regional part and health and long-term care – thus also in the municipal sector. We want initiatives to come from below. Funds have been allocated – 249 million – to 190 municipalities and 16 regions. New ways to plan schedules, e-learning platforms and wellness are some examples of what the money has gone to. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Linda Lindberg whether it would not have been better simply to increase something that already exists, that is, the recovery bonus, rather than creating another subsidy.
i-84127737242618d4-621	Mr President, I would like to I thank Margareta Fransson for the question. The recovery bonus is absolutely good, and it is fixed – we do not make any changes to it. However, I do not see any problem with the fact that there are other bets that are sharp and targeted. I would like to put the question back to Margareta Fransson, who has written in her reservation, among other things, that the investments added to this budget by M, KD and us Swedish democrats would steer Sweden in the wrong direction in the field of expenditure. I am a little curious about how the Green Party is discussing this issue, Mr President. What initiatives does Mr Fransson think would be to steer Sweden in the wrong direction? Are there efforts to reduce care queues? Are there efforts to remove shared tours within elderly care? Maybe it's the fight against HIV? Could it be that you feel that trying to eradicate cervical cancer is going in the wrong direction?
i-84127737242618d4-625	Mr President, I would like to You need to see a budget as a whole, not as broken parts. One example I can take to answer the honourable Member is the risk we face of being completely without the so-called covid money from the EU. This is a completely wrong path, because it is reductions in climate, environmental and digitalisation efforts that risk losing money. Mr President, I would like to I am very concerned that another contribution, precisely because it is new, risks losing focus on the recovery bonus. This needs time, and it's a little different – the initiative comes from below. If you feel that this is what you need, it can be about removing shared tours. Can the honourable Member share my concerns? And could the honourable Member consider working to increase the recovery bonus?
i-84127737242618d4-629	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Fransson for the question. As I said, I have no problem with either recovery bonuses or other targeted state subsidies. I think it is good that it is clear what is meant by state subsidies. In the past, EUR 4 billion has been spent precisely to promote many of these parts, for example, that we should have fewer hourly employees in the municipalities. A study carried out by SVT shows that this has not been the case. Then one might wonder if there are good bets being made. I would like to ask Mrs Fransson once again: what in our efforts in the budget is what the honourable Member thinks is causing Sweden to go in the wrong direction? Is it the care queues? Is it getting rid of the shared tours? Is it that we want to eradicate cervical cancer and make special efforts against HIV?
i-84127737242618d4-632	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't see many people, but there are usually many who listen to the debates in Parliament. I hope that this is true even today; it is instructive in many ways. We are debating today the Government's budget proposal for 2022, and we are in fact almost finished. It is a comprehensive budget proposal – in total, reforms of over SEK 74 billion are proposed. It is a reform budget that is only surpassed by the one presented the previous year, and the major efforts stemmed largely from the pandemic. The budget proposal for 2022 is therefore also a very expansive budget. We are persevering and persevering to strengthen welfare while stimulating the economy to emerge from this pandemic; sooner or later it will happen. Now we are going to debate Category 9 Health, health and social care. It includes new proposals and reforms for just over SEK 16 billion. This is a real welfare budget. Let me start with what is a prerequisite for our common security: the world's best health and care personnel. It is the staff who do the job, but politics must ensure that there are reasonable conditions for doing so. It is absolutely a question of resources, but it is also a question of taking back democratic control of welfare. This is something in which I feel the government has a great deal of support. The political wind has in some sense reversed. Perhaps that is also why the right has toned down its previous rhetoric on privatisation, freedom of establishment, just-in-time procurement and new public management. There are hardly even any Moderates who say that it is efficiency improvements or savings that lead to better quality, more staff and better conditions. While the rhetoric is no longer retained, in practice it is quite often the same. In many municipalities, tax cuts continue. The government is now shooting billions in the municipalities, where the money should largely land in the care of the elderly, and to the regions, where much should land in health care. Do the Moderates intend to talk to their party friends about the money going to welfare and not going to reduced taxes or being piled up? I would like to highlight another perspective, which I believe there will be a battle for both during the time that awaits the elections and beyond. The Moderates decided at their party meeting last autumn to support proposals to sell out the Swedish people's emergency hospital. When are we going to have that debate? That's my question. This is not going to happen in the dark. Mr President, I would like to Adequate resources are essential. I am very proud of the major financial contributions that the S-led government has made to municipalities and regions over the last seven years. Only since 2018 have there been permanent increases of 22 1⁄2 billion. I am particularly proud that, in the midst of a pandemic, we have also been able to make huge contributions in good cooperation with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. These are additions that have made it possible to avoid cuts and redundancies. Instead, municipalities and regions have had the opportunity to employ more people. Thanks to the fact that the government pursues a responsible economic policy and in every situation prioritises welfare, the consequences of the pandemic have been mitigated. Yet money is not everything. When it comes to care for the elderly, it is not least about values and how one views the elderly and the women's dominated professions of care for the elderly. Does it accept that these are of low status? Does it consider that the work can be done by anyone, without training or collective agreements? Perhaps this is not accepted. Perhaps, instead, one is willing to lead a real change. This government has taken more political initiatives to improve Swedish care for the elderly than has been done in a long time. As I said before, it is the staff who do the job but the politics that provides the conditions. That is why we have ensured that the elderly's staff are finally given free work clothes and that nurses have been given a protected professional title. We have launched the Elderly Care Lift, so that employees can read to the nurse on paid working hours and also get a permanent job. With the budget for 2022, we are also setting up a new centre of expertise for elderly care at the National Board of Health and Welfare, we are introducing the right to permanent care contact in home care and we are continuing with extensive financial efforts. It's probably not that difficult--it's perhaps even simple--for the opposition to say, when everything is on the table, that we are behind this. I want to be clear and say that I think it is very good, because the more major changes we agree on, the more security it gives the business to dare to be long-term. However, I do not think it is reasonable to be fooled by the fact that all this would have happened regardless of government. We did not see any such proposals for the long period 2006-2014. At that time, it was LOV, freedom of establishment and privatisation that were at the top of the agenda. It was not about the working environment and working conditions of workers. I strongly argue that it matters who is in charge, even when the opposition is not against the proposals put forward by the government. With regard to personal assistance, we are perhaps making the biggest effort in this budget since the launch of the LSS reform with three proposals to strengthen the right to assistance. It has been a long way to go and difficult and complicated investigations. But now it is on the table that supervision should also give the right to assistance, and it becomes a narrower and more legally secure parental responsibility. And by ensuring patient safety in self-care interventions, additional people are entitled to assistance. According to the investigator and the referral bodies that have responded, this is likely to lead, in particular, to the return of children to the assistance they have lost as a result of harsher court practices. When reforms have a full impact, it is estimated to cost just over 3 1⁄2 billion a year. Of course, that is something that we cannot know with certainty, but when the change is made we will see how much it costs. It is an important reform that we Social Democrats went to elections in 2018. I'm glad it'll come true. Mr President, I would like to As in many other countries, healthcare in Sweden has been severely tested during the pandemic. A large number of planned visits, treatments and operations have had to be postponed to ensure access to emergency medical care. New corona queues have emerged, and now the pressure is increasing again as a result of the spread of infection. Here we all need to assume our responsibilities as citizens and fellow human beings by vaccinating us and by following advice and recommendations. The government allocates SEK 6 billion in 2022 to the regions to support the work on covid care but also to graze the coronaköer and ensure that the dammed care needs can be managed – 6 billion! We continue to add billions to vaccines, vaccinations, testing, contamination detection – important tools to reduce the burden on health care. The National Council for Health Care Skills, set up by the Government, supports the regions to ensure that there are sufficient staff with the right skills, which is essential if the number of care places is to be increased. The government allocates half a billion to enable more nurses to specialise in salary during education. And it is gratifying that there are now 17 percent more nurses compared to the academic year 2014/ 2015. In addition, the number of nurses who received a specialist degree in 2019/ 2020 was the highest since 2001. More nurses and more specialist nurses are necessary to cope with long-term care and, I repeat, to deal with postponed care, so-called queues, and to set up more care places. Equally important is the ongoing reform of primary care. The aim is not least that more people should have a permanent doctor at their health centre. Strong primary care increases the ability to prevent severe illness and avoid unnecessary hospitalisations, but also to promote good and equal public health. Mr President, I would like to With sufficient resources, the right priorities and more staff with the right skills and having control that taxpayers' money goes to health care and care and nothing else, we build welfare strong.
i-84127737242618d4-658	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that it is very good to see the Minister for Social Affairs in this House. I warmly welcome her. We have missed you during many debates and are very happy that you are here today. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs has raised the queues as one of the most pressing issues to discuss in this debate today. The fact that we have 180 000 people in line is, of course, one of the things that we politicians must put absolutely the strongest focus on working away. Nevertheless, it is worrying, I may think, that the very strong work to reduce queues has fallen back again after the turn of the government in 2014. Let us not forget that the queues did not come with the pandemic! They increased long before. When the alliance government took over in 2006, approximately 120 000 people in Sweden were in care queues. When we handed over power in 2014, we were down to about 50,000. Let me be very clear about that, but we weren't happy with it. We can never be satisfied until we have zero people in line. I am concerned, not least when I read the Social Democrats' proposals for their congress. They say that they should increase the efforts of the state and regions to reduce health care queues but do not have any concrete proposals. Is it that you try to focus on private caregivers to hide that you simply don't know how to do it? I would very much like the Minister for Social Affairs to present here and now the Social Democrats' recipe for shorter care queues.
i-84127737242618d4-664	Mr President, I would like to It is very nice to be in the Chamber. It is difficult to keep up with all the committee's debates. Since the government produces very many products for the committee, the committee also has many debates in this House. But we've been seeing each other, not least digitally, very often lately. I am also pleased that we devote a great deal of time to this debate on accessibility. Of course that is something we must all have in mind. I do not believe that there can be many more important issues in this area than having care without a queue. I think many people who hear the word queue-free think it almost sounds utopian. And I understand that, but that's where we're going. Camilla Waltersson Grön v all asked what is the recipe of the Social Democrats. After all, I call on all regions to really have debates between parties and representatives on how to increase accessibility, because it is quite different. So what do we do at national level? Well, we try, of course, in many different ways to help make things easier for the regions. Among other things, there is an accessibility delegation that has worked, continues to work and has made many exciting proposals that we are looking at further. I would also like to say something about the picture that the queues decreased during the alliance years and then increased. It was introduced a cue billion. We may have quite a lot of discussions about what side effects it had, but it contributed to reduced queues. On the other hand, we saw that the effect began to decline after the first few years had had a positive effect. We then stated that we had to redo the cue billion, that we could not continue in the same way, and that we also had evasive effects. Now there are 3 queue billions, if you believe that it is money that is the answer to all the challenges that healthcare faces. Before the pandemic, all regions were given part of the queue billions, when waiting times were shorter than at the same time the previous year. It was a positive development that the coronapendem really put a stop to. Now I would say that this is about a combination of resources, training places, care skills and advice from accessibility delegations.
i-84127737242618d4-670	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that I have every respect for the work that the Minister for Social Affairs has done and carried out during the tough pandemic. Nevertheless, I am concerned that the bill list from the Ministry of Social Affairs is gaping rather empty. Both I and the Minister of Social Affairs have previously worked in the field of education, and I can say that although it was in many parts that I did not share my opinion with Fridolin and Ekström, they worked very clearly to invite us. And we Moderates are ready to discuss and meet to deal with these great concerns. There is so little time under one line, but I would like the Minister for Social Affairs to devote his last line to describing why no more has been done about the 27 announcements by the Committee on Social Affairs regarding vulnerable children.
i-84127737242618d4-672	Mr President, I would like to It is a completely impossible question to try to answer in one minute. We are doing everything we can to deal with all the announcements, but I think there may be some inflation in announcements. Every announcement cannot be answered in three weeks because it is to be prepared, but Camilla Waltersson Grönvall knows that. Since more people have applied the rhetorical question method, I am also going to ask one. Seven out of ten regions are ruled by Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's Party of the Moderates. It is not that the work done there does not affect the queues. On the contrary, it is where accessibility is handled. We will do everything we can to help shorten the queues at national level, but the work must be done around the country. What is the reason why seven out of ten regions, which are moderate-controlled, have such long queues? That is the reflection we can give ourselves to on the next occasion.
i-84127737242618d4-677	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his speech. We share the commitment to making care for the elderly better in real life. Nevertheless, I am a little concerned that the efforts of the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party, which are now part of the government's budget and which mean almost 4 billion annually to the municipalities for elderly care, will not receive the same commitment from the Minister for Social Affairs. It is hardly mentioned in the budget proposal in addition to a few short lines, and I did not hear anything about it in the speech. The Minister did not talk about reforms to increase medical skills, improve working conditions and increase the possibility of more adapted housing. I am particularly concerned because the committee has gone through how the government follows up on the concern for the elderly. The committee therefore gives a unanimous opinion on the follow-up to the results with regard to the care of the elderly. On a number of points, we do not know how things are going. We are clear that the government must improve its follow-up so that we know how staffing and competence are and that relevant data are used. If we are to succeed in the common desire to improve care for the elderly, we must know how it goes. Is the money used for the right things? Is manning improved? Do we have sufficient competence? I would like to hear how the Minister for Social Affairs views the criticism of the committee, which I assume the Minister for Social Affairs has taken note of, and what the government intends to do about it.
i-84127737242618d4-682	Mr President, I would like to Everyone is behind us having a national competence centre at the National Board of Health and Welfare to increase knowledge of what it looks like around the country's 290 municipalities, because it looks different. We need to increase this knowledge, and I think it will serve us well. As far as the resource supplements in the spring bill are concerned, I would like to say that it is not a problem that there is money for elderly care. Let me be clear about that. But it is problematic when they are sharply targeted with a follow-up that is difficult to take part in, which is difficult for municipalities to control and that should happen in a short time. We therefore spend a lot of time trying to deal with the ideas and decisions that are very concrete. I was previously on the Education Committee, and we had many discussions about how much targeted state subsidies it was and how difficult it was. At that time, the Committee on Social Affairs, Public Health and the Elderly was often highlighted as an example where it did not deal with small, targeted state grants that should be applied for, accounted for and perhaps repaid, because it creates administration at national level for authorities but above all in the activities. I think we are embarking on this path with regard to care for the elderly and health care. It is not 25 or 100 million that solves problems when regions and municipalities have already received 22.5 billion in addition. We need to start thinking about what the steering looks like. I think an elderly care team will make a difference for elderly care, because then you know what to control. Based on what it looks like, we will also fund elderly care in a way that ensures a level playing field throughout the country.
i-84127737242618d4-687	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful to the Minister for Social Affairs for having a commitment to the issues, but we must jointly ensure that follow-up is improved. It is not enough for us to make decisions about money here. Every time I meet my party friends around the country, I ask: How do you use the money? What are your plans? What happened? I know the difficulties. For example, quite a few say that it is difficult to get new staff. Let us therefore ensure that the good examples available are shared by more people. I am pleased, for example, that, thanks to the money, the municipality of Gislaved can hire a new pharmacist for care for the elderly who strengthens medical skills. The municipalities learn from each other, but if there is no pressure at national level that the money really comes out and that you follow up, there is not much going on. Therefore, it is important that the government's performance monitoring is improved. A united committee demands this, and I assume that the government will improve it for the coming years.
i-84127737242618d4-690	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what I said in my last line shift. We need a much better accounting. This requires that we receive all the information and that the municipalities' data collection is organised so that we get the relevant data. I am convinced that a national competence centre will play a major role. We need to increase our knowledge of the situation in the elderly care of municipalities in order to be able to both follow up and take new measures that are moving in the right direction. The 4 billion is a permanent supplement that you can use to what you want as long as it is elderly care. Many have used it to remove shared tours or to hire nurses. It is not always easy to know which money is used for what when you have large general supplements, supplements that should go to the care of the elderly and supplements that should be used very specifically. This gives both the municipalities and those who are to follow up on this difficulty, but we must of course succeed better in doing so.
i-84127737242618d4-694	Mr President, I would like to I have two thoughts. The first is that I think the government has been a little nifty with the general state grants. You have chosen to increase these contributions to regions and municipalities by 3 billion while the Institute of Economic Development has said that it would take 16 billion to keep municipalities and regions balanced. My second concerns what's happening. I am very concerned about the actions of a number of regions. This applies specifically to Stockholm, Västra Götaland and Skåne, where major cuts are made in emergency hospitals. It will be a bit special because the same parties here in the Riksdag advocate more care places. At the same time as these regions are cutting a lot of money, they are putting a lot of money into it. Only in Stockholm is it 7 billion. This is very counterproductive. In some regions there is a human resources crisis; staff are leaving. Just look at the birth chaos in a number of regions. This will be distorted for the citizens, who believe that the region is poor. In fact, however, the region has spent 7 billion on high and is still cutting down. We must look at this. Has Minister Hallengren thought of the same thing?
i-84127737242618d4-700	Mr President, I would like to I've been thinking about that, and I've been thinking about a lot of other things. Then the question is how to proceed. I think we agree that if the House decides on a large contribution – in this case to municipalities and regions and, in the long run, to Swedish welfare – the money will also go there. As far as I'm concerned, it's incredibly important that we do what we can to secure it. It can be seen in this context that we should not reduce taxes and not collect big profits. But it is also important that the money goes just to hiring more people. That's what we all want. We want to hire nurses, doctors and specialists to ensure that there are enough places for surgery and treatments to be carried out. It is very important but of course not always simply. It is again made more difficult by the fact that some funds are general and others are targeted. Some of them are very special. What money is really which is not simply to ascertain. But it is clear that we want to have an impact on the investments we make. That's why we decide on them. Let me just say something about the extent of supplements. Since 2018, 22.5 billion in permanent increases have been made to municipalities and regions. That's a lot of money. However, as far as I know, the former Minister of Finance, now the Prime Minister, has never said that it is enough, but vice versa. Welfare must be a priority. This will continue to happen. Since we are in good financial order and dealing with a pandemic in parallel, we shall also ensure that we can get out of the crisis. We have already begun to do so, but we will continue to do so. The last word is not at all said. But 22.5 billion in four years are quite large additions.
i-84127737242618d4-708	Mr President, I would like to That sounds praiseworthy. One would like to send a wish list, Minister Lena Hallengren, to really equip welfare and also to review the market's enormous influence on the whole welfare sector right now, which we on the left are very concerned about. It is therefore a matter of health care. I think we need to put our foot down there. At the same time, I'd like to– it's Christmas time here – take the opportunity to wish the Minister a Merry Christmas. Thank you for the enormous work that has been done during this pandemic. It is outstanding from all sides, and also from the Social Affairs Committee that has worn dog. I became very July, almost like Santa Claus, although I am dressed in black, Mr President. I would like to wish the Bureau, the President and our fantastic office on the Social Affairs Committee a Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas, everyone!
i-84127737242618d4-711	Mr President, I would like to I always find it a little tricky how to mix the feeling of debate with all the greetings about a Merry Christmas. But I'm sure it fits. It is not so hard debate from the speakers here at the moment. Let me say that on the wish list it should be said that more people will go to health care, want to work there and work there and that we provide the best possible conditions with both working conditions and a decent working environment. It's a Christmas present for them and a Christmas present for all of us. This is, of course, the purpose of large investments in municipalities and regions. They should not go to anything but what we think is the important thing in welfare. I do as everyone else does and wish you a Merry Christmas who is in the Chamber and to everyone who is watching this and not least to the Presidium of Presidents.
i-84127737242618d4-717	Ladies and gentlemen! When we met in this House for the summer closure on 23 June, I said that I hoped that in the autumn we would be able to return to somewhat more common practices and forms of work. We also did so, to some extent, because you were all able to take part in the vote again in the House after the opening of the Parliamentary Session. Now, unfortunately, we are seeing the spread of the disease again increasing. Pandemine's not over. The parliamentary administration, the group leaders and I are closely following the situation and are ready to take the necessary measures to safeguard the democratic decision-making process. We will come back with new information to the extent that it exists. Despite the pandemine, statistics from the Chamber during the Parliamentary Session 2020/21 show that records have been broken in terms of, for example, the number of hours in the Chamber. The total period was approximately 56 per cent higher than in the previous Parliamentary Session and actually higher than in all previous Parliamentary Sessions since 1992/ 93. So you Members have been extremely diligent in this House and have made no less than 10 368 speeches and 4 711 replies. Good job! I interpret the figures as saying that Parliament has also taken control very seriously. There were 3 647 written questions, more than at any Parliamentary meeting since 1992/ 93. About 25% of the questions were about the pandemic. Record also fought for the exercise. You submitted a total of 4,150 motions during the general exercise, with over 17,000 requests.
i-84127737242618d4-721	So you have taken your mission very seriously together and worked in spite of the very special circumstances that have been. As you know, this term of office began with the record-long formation of government in 2018/ 2019 and continued with a pandemic that has had a major impact on political work. We then had a government crisis in June – July this year and then two more government formation processes in November after Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's resignation. It has been a particularly eventful year and a particularly eventful term of office. Now we are entering the final run of the parliamentary term and can certainly look forward to an eventful political parliamentary difficult. During the spring, we will also conclude our celebration of the breakthrough of democracy that has been going on since December 2018. An important date will be 10 January 2022, when it is exactly 100 years since the first five women took part in the Riksdag. This is noticed by the Riksdag with the performance Celebrate Democracy – 100 years at the Annex in Stockholm for specially invited guests. The performance is also broadcast on SVT. On stage, artists, dancers, choir and orchestra will perform a story about Sweden's path to democracy and the time after that until our day. It remains to be seen how many will be able to take part in the performance on site. But I look forward to that day as an important day to mark this 100th anniversary. I hope that even after the anniversary it will become a natural feature when we show, for example, the Parliament House to highlight how it happened when Sweden became a democracy. The Committee for Parliament's commemoration of the introduction of democracy has therefore supported proposals for two different works of art to create more permanent impressions in and at the Riksdag, in order to remind us in the future of the breakthrough of democracy and the people who made it possible. Both artworks honor in different ways the first five women in the Riksdag and will be inaugurated next year. This year we also opened the bust representing former Prime Minister Nils Edén. It is also part of the celebration of democracy. In 2021 we also celebrate another anniversary: Enkammarriksdagen 50 years. On January 11, 1971, the new one-chamber Kingdom Day met for the first time in the temporary premises at Sergel's square. Yesterday, on the initiative of the Constitutional Committee and my initiative, a formal seminar was held in collaboration with the Riksbank's Jubilee Fund to mark the anniversary. The introduction of the Enchammar Parliament gave rise to entirely new local needs. In this context, I would like to make a small, short crowd-forming effort and tell you a little more about Parliament's house throughout the ages. We shape our buildings and afterwards our buildings shape us; we shape our buildings, and afterwards we are formed by our buildings," said Winston Churchill when he decided that the bombed House of Commons would be built up exactly as it looked before the war. Look at the screens in the hall now! For a long time there was no parliament house, but the nobility met in Riddarhuset, the priests in Stockholm Cathedral, the castles in Stockholm's old town hall at Stortorget and the peasants in various places. The story of a house for the Riksdag thus began on Riddarholmen, as you can see from a picture on the screen in the hall. In the 1820s, the question of a common place for the three commons—priests, bourgeois and peasants—was raised. The choice was then made at Riksgäldskontoret's house on Riddarholmen, and in 1834 the three stalls were able to move into their first common premises in the house that you see in the picture and which is now the seat of the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. The 1866 official reform abolished the National Assembly, and the two - chamber Kingdom Day came into being. The Parliament then also bought the Hebbeska house, which was next door, and it was merged with the Parliament building. But the Hebbeska house was considered to be both crowded and unworthy from the outset. One MP complained that the MPs had to slip the kitchen road between a stove block and a restaurant to reach the meeting rooms. You couldn't have been like that. There was a need for a new and larger Parliament building with two plenisals, and at the same time the Riksbank needed a new house. After many considerations, it was decided that both buildings would be located here on Helgeandsholmen. So on May 13, 1897, Oscar II laid the foundation stone, and on January 12, 1905, the new Parliament House, which is being built in the picture you can now see on the screen, was inaugurated. Then, as now, everything became more expensive than expected. By the time all was finished, the expenses had risen to about SEK 12 million, almost twice as much as expected. Then, of course, when the decision on the one-chamber parliament was taken, the premises here needed to be adapted, for example with this new chamber. While it was rebuilt here on Helgeandsholmen, the Parliament was housed in the future Kulturhuset at Sergels torg, which we can see a sketch over on the screen. Working conditions were also improved with members' study rooms, and the service was expanded with more officials and more support functions. They were also very proud of the modern electrical and telecommunications equipment, such as the automatic telephone switchboard with 860 connections. But after twelve years in provisional premises at Sergel's square, the Riksdag moved back here to the rebuilt Riksdag buildings in 1983. Some felt that Parliament should remain at Sergel's square, in what was then considered a modern and comfortable building. But that's not what happened. Here we are. Ladies and gentlemen! After this little historical digression we will return to everyday life and reality here. The pandemic has left its mark on parliamentary work for almost two years now. At the parliamentary board meeting yesterday, the parliamentary committee led by former Speaker Per Westerberg presented the results of his work on the parliamentary inquiry during the first year of the pandemic. It presented a series of possible measures to develop Parliament's work in a crisis situation. We have succeeded in carrying out our duties in Parliament. But there are lessons to be learned for things to work even better. I am therefore grateful for the important work of the investigation. Ladies and gentlemen! Here comes some practical information. The parliamentary administration will gradually introduce fully digital document management into the parliamentary process. The first step is taken. It is since Monday possible to send written questions and interpellations digitally. All Members may use the digital submission service, as well as officials who have been authorised by their Office. It is necessary for you as a member to be able to use the service, that you have the Parliament's signing service activated on your mobile phone. I hope that as many people as possible visit the service centre-it to get the function activated, not necessarily because we need more interpellations and questions, but because this step makes it possible to continue the digitisation of other parliamentary documents as well. Another innovation is that the service centre in the Bankhallen Hall will have extended tasks at the beginning of next year. The employees there should be able to receive different types of parliamentary documents from members, party chancellors and the Government Offices to simplify the handling for all involved. More information on this will be available in January. But before that, you've earned Christmas leave. I hope you all have a nice and restful Christmas in the circle of loved ones. I would like to thank each and every one of you for the work you have done for Parliament and for Sweden in the extraordinary circumstances that have been. I would also like to extend warm thanks to the President's Bureau, the group leaders and the members of the parliamentary board for their cooperation and joint efforts to find solutions to sometimes complex issues. A warm thank you also to the Director of Parliament and all the employees of the Riksdag Administration. You have, as always, taken on the varied challenges that have needed to be addressed and done so with commitment, joy and professionalism – together for the benefit of the Riksdag. The employees of the Party chancellors are also central to the political work being carried out. Thank you very much, too. I would like to conclude with a few lines from the poem with the appropriate title Epilog of Tomas Tranströmer. December. Sweden is a mission, detachable ship. Towards the twilight sky is its master harsh. And dusk lasts longer than day – the road that leads here is rocky: at noon the light first reaches and the colosseum of winter rises, illuminated from unreal clouds. Then even the white smoke rises staggering from the villages. Infinity high are the clouds. That could be the case. It's tough this time of year. And yes, sometimes it feels more dusk than dawn, both figuratively and literally. But the clouds are high up there. Behind is the bright sky, and we are here together after all. With this assurance, I wish you all a truly Merry Christmas and eventually a Happy New Year.
i-84127737242618d4-750	Mr President, I would like to We agree with the words we have just heard that this year has not been like anything else, but under the leadership of the President it has gone well. I would like to thank you, the President and the three Vice-Presidents, for the work you have done for our good and for the good of the country. We Members can only imagine a small part of the burden that has been on your shoulders, but we value what you have done. We're safe for the future. In the near future we have Christmas, and I would like to read from all of us for the President and the Bureau a few lines of Py Bäckman, Koppången, which was written in 1999. We'll all have to bring the Christmas spirit home. Here is stillness and silence Now that the ground has been colored white, From the safe, old church Klinger the song all the way here. I have stopped by the road to rest for a while and was caught in the borderland that unites night and day. And a light from the lights Behind the arched frame of the window has united the souls that are with us here in time. And I know that those who have left have understood that we are Like fluttering flames As long as we are here. And there among sparkling stars that fades one by one, life comes very close As a glimpse of the truth. We are prisoners of time As an imprint of a hand On a frosty, old window that received grace from the tooth of time. One second I'm eternal and then I don't know anything else. Just one, that I live as full as anyone else. I'm here and in the middle of a frozen road is there heat anyway, although the snow begins to fall And the sky becomes gray. And a light from the lights Behind the arched frame of the window has united the souls that are with us here in time. And I know that those who have left have understood that we are Like fluttering flames As long as we are here. Here is stillness and silence Now that the psalm has sounded out, but I carry the old words in my heart as before. I'm singing to the sky Maybe someone else will listen, Hosianna in the sky and then I'll start walking. I go to the others I want to feel the peace of Christmas, I want to believe that he was born and is with us in time. It's Christmas and there's a child in me who wants to think it happened and who lights a candle every Sunday in Advent.
i-84127737242618d4-761	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me whether I have taken any initiative for a follow-up analysis to review the effect of the law's entry into force and whether I intend to work for the government to make proposals to give dental hygienists the right to perform aesthetic injections, in line with what the investigation proposed. Sofia Nilsson has also asked me if I will work towards a change in the legislation so that licensed dental hygienists will be allowed to perform certain aesthetic injection treatments in the face. I would like to start by saying that the Act( 2021:363) on aesthetic surgical procedures and esthetic injection treatments has been created to strengthen the protection of the individual who wishes to undergo such an operation or injection treatment. In the case of injections in particular, the requirement is for the performer to be a qualified doctor, nurse or dentist. This assessment is well balanced and a majority of the consultation bodies, including the Health and Welfare Association, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Karolinska Institutet and the Swedish Medical Products Agency, had no objection to this. With the skills requirements now in place, it has become safer to undergo an aesthetic procedure or an injection. The risk of encountering an uneducated performer who pierces a blood vessel, perhaps even an artery, has been reduced. The same applies to the risk of tissue death on the face as a result of vascular blockage, which can occur if the filler is injected incorrectly. The law will help to clear out rogue and dangerous actors in an industry that has until recently been unregulated. It is an industry in which, unfortunately, there can be strong economic interests at the expense of human health. In several cases, the treatments covered by the law are assessed as having significant health risks. Nearly one hundred thousand Swedes go through different beauty attacks each year. More than 10% report complications. Infections, stroke, blindness, blisters, bruising, redness and swelling are complications that may occur during injection treatment. Strengthening the patient's protection in these situations has guided the development of legislation. If the filler is injected incorrectly, medication with an antidote is required. Prescription medicine is a regulated task within the health care and dental care sector. The assessment that has been made is therefore that it is licensed doctors, dentists and nurses who have the competence to both perform treatments and assess and treat complications. The law is not detailed in such a way that it indicates where on the body the injection may be given, as it is important to have a broad medical education. The preparatory work to the law states that an authority should be given the task of carrying out a follow-up on the effects of the law on patient safety, the occurrence of injuries and any need for regulation regarding other hazardous aesthetic treatments. Of course, the new legislation should be followed up. The government stands by that, but the law has only been in force for a few months. For example, the health inspection has not yet taken a fundamental decision on the application of the new law. The government is, of course, following developments in this area, in close dialogue with the relevant authorities, and is prepared to initiate follow-up when the need exists. The government has no intention of making such changes in regulation that risk reducing the protection and safety of the individual.
i-84127737242618d4-770	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. On 1 July this year, a new law on surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments came into force. According to it, doctors, dentists and nurses — and these groups alone — can now carry out these injection treatments. The law has been long awaited by many, both professionals and patients, and it is good that some rogue actors are now being cleared out. Unfortunately, the new law has also prevented some serious professionals from operating in the industry. One of the groups that has fallen between the chairs is certified dental hygienists who have previously carried out these treatments and have the necessary experience and competence. Other professions include biomedical analysts and X-ray nurses. What has happened since the summer is that dental hygienists have been forced to shut down their clinics. It is mainly a question of self-employed women who have run their clinics for several years in a patient-safe manner. I have previously asked the Government whether or not the Government intends to correct this situation. It is of course the case that the government has the opportunity to make provision that other qualified health professionals than those currently included in the law should also be able to perform certain aesthetic injection treatments. The answer was then, and is now, that there is always some actor who is affected by a border draw. On the other hand, there has been no explanation for the fact that qualified dental hygienists are not considered to be able to perform these treatments or what skills they lack. The government is closing out here a whole group of well-trained, experienced professionals, and small businessmen, from carrying out activities that they have been carrying out for years in a patient-proof manner. That is most regrettable. I have asked the Minister whether it intends to initiate a follow-up analysis to examine the effects, and there I received a waiting response. Now at the end, I was told that the Minister does not intend to work for the government to make proposals to give dental hygienists the right to carry out these injection treatments. The Government's response states that there is a risk of tissue death in the face as a result of vascular blockage if the filler is injected incorrectly. Yes, but it does not apply to the group of licensed dental hygienists; they have the competence to do so safely. They have done so and can continue to do so. That the law would help to clear out rogue and dangerous actors in an industry that until recently was unregulated was the point, but then the question is: Are legitimate dental hygienists unserious? Are they dangerous? We note that doctors, dentists and nurses are deemed competent to carry out the treatments. Nurses now allowed to perform these treatments lack training in facial anatomy. Legitimated dental hygienists have it and can daily perform treatments in a patient-proof manner. It seems obvious that the legislation should be followed up. Nevertheless, it has caused major problems for a well-functioning profession, as well as small businesses, to which it is urgent to address – now, soon. My question to the Government is in what way the government increases patient safety by preventing more competent, well-trained and skilled professionals from pursuing their profession.
i-84127737242618d4-779	Madam President, I would like As the previous interpellant mentioned, a problem has indeed arisen for our dental hygienists in particular, who have until now been able to both operate and perform aesthetic injections but will no longer be able to do so. I am pleased that at least one Moderate has paid attention to the issue – during the discussion and preparation of the matter, it was only we in the Center Party who pointed out that dental hygienists are an affected group, and we did not get any attention at all. I certainly share the Minister's analysis and view that it is important that we have regulated this industry. In the past it has been a bit of the Wild West, I would say. Now we put patient safety first and control which identification professions are allowed to perform aesthetic injection treatments. It's very important to do that. What worries me about when we make laws like this is that we, like unnecessarily, limit the freedom to conduct a business. This identification group, that is dental hygienists, has really fallen between the chairs. There are many who today run serious, fine and good companies but now will basically be banned from business. I see this as an incredible problem when the state goes in and makes laws in this way – especially when, in my opinion, they are not sufficiently substantiated. We are discussing exactly the same issue, and in fact we do not need to broaden the background more than that. But what I think a lot about is what conditions the Government believes should be fulfilled for legitimate dental hygienists to actually carry out these aesthetic injection treatments on their face. T andhygienics are well trained in the anatomy of the face. Of course, there are some aesthetic injections made elsewhere, but the vast majority of beauty interventions in the form of botox, filler and so on are actually performed on the face. The law should in some way be balanced up so that we can look at whether dental hygienists, who are actually trained in the anatomy of the face, can be included and continue to carry on their activities.
i-84127737242618d4-785	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. What is important to say is that this is not an issue that has emerged now, as Sofia Nilsson rightly pointed out. It is not, therefore, the case that this is a mistake in the work, that no one had noted the dental hygienists and that it has subsequently been found that they are not covered. This has been known, and an assessment has been made. I think it is perhaps a bit bleak of Hans Rothenberg to say with certainty that dental hygienists can do this, unlike the referrals that I listen to – the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Medical Products Agency, SKR, Karolinska Institutet – and who have made the assessment. We are going to make this regulation both to get rid of the rogue actors and to ensure that it becomes safe if you are necessarily going to do some kind of beauty treatment or aesthetic injection. I cannot describe in detail all the differences between dental hygienist, dentist, nurse and so on, but in general terms it is important to say that a dental hygienist is not allowed to prescribe a medicine. It is also a question of not having the broad medical expertise. The legislation does not state where on the body the injection or procedure should be done, and then you need to have a broader competence. Since 2019 the dental hygienist education has been three years. Previously it was a two-year-old, and those with two-year education since 1991 retain their licence. That's how it works. I think it is important to say that the competence requirement lies in the identification. It is not the individual's experience or knowledge that is being tested, but the competence requirements that must be laid down in the licence when making the regulation. Firstly, it is about the identification itself, and secondly, it is clear that there is the possibility of building on their education for those who would like it. My brief answer is that I do not intend to make either a party political or a self-assessment of something as serious as what competence it takes to make a certain intervention. Now we have this specific discussion, but I think it is important that we be careful who does what. In this case, we base it on an assessment from a combination of expert authorities and consultation bodies. I would also like to say very briefly that if a law is to be followed up, it should have been in place for some time so that you can draw some conclusions. At present, therefore, there is no need to follow up, but we will follow up on the law.
i-84127737242618d4-792	Madam President, I would like It is already investigated by the National Board of Health and Welfare that certified dental hygienists have the skills required to perform aesthetic injections in the face. That during the entire pre-work of the law they just disappeared without explanation is quite strange. It is wrong that licensed dental hygienists cannot deal with acute events. It's part of their education. There were three referrals that in 2015 were negative to dental hygienists performing these: EIR, Speso and Allergan. The investigation in 2019 did not invite dental hygienists to attend, which in turn is quite remarkable throughout the preparation. Nurses who are now allowed to do these treatments lack training in facial anatomy, but it still seems perfectly okay to complete these treatments. Legitimated dental hygienists have that training, and they can daily perform treatments in a patient-safe manner. Aesthetic injections are not one of the core areas of dental hygiene practice. It is health-promoting and preventive dental care. On the other hand, it is an area in which many dental hygienists have developed their skills for several years, not least as self-employed people. The so-called Beauty Investigation that was presented in 2016 suggested that the professions dental hygienists, dentists, nurses and doctors under a new law should be allowed to perform aesthetic injections. However, when such a new law was presented in 2020, dental hygienists were not included, nor had they been allowed to participate in the investigation round. The Swedish Dental Hygienist Association has repeatedly tried to clarify why it has been excluded and what has been lacking in their competence. The answers have been non-specific, and no one has been able to present the basis on which the government has taken a decision. In addition, there are no specific competences described in the legislative text, but only those professions that are considered to have the right skills. Madam President, I would like The Minister mentions the right to prescribe certain medicines and the need for collaboration with doctors as a reason for the decision. This is already happening today, and the need for collaboration also applies to dentists and nurses. In the answer, the Minister says that dental hygienists have limited competence in dealing with complications and lack of general medical knowledge as well as in the competence to inject medicines. But dental hygienists are a professional group that performs this type of assessment on a daily basis, once again in a professional and patient-proof manner. If what the Minister writes and says is correct, one can question whether the dental hygienist should be able to perform several of the treatments carried out today. For example, the treatment of periodontal disease performed by the dental hygienist on everything from healthy to multisick persons presupposes the very competence that the minister believes the dental hygienist lacks. I would like to conclude my speech by saying that it should also be interesting for the government to enable these groups to get into this work and also to have their skills strengthened, if it is the case that the treatment is insecure. Legitimated dental hygienists have come up with an intermediary. It is a group of self-employed people, and a great many of them are women. For a feminist government, that in itself should be a reason to evaluate and do it again quite soon.
i-84127737242618d4-802	Madam President, I would like No, of course, we do not want to see any legislative changes that risk patient safety. That is certainly not what I am looking for, but the fact that a group that has previously been allowed to participate under the legislation will now, on the whole, be banned from doing business. I believe that they are worth explaining why they will not be able to take part in carrying out their activities anymore. What is also a bit odd about the whole issue is what Mr Rothenberg mentioned earlier, namely that dental hygienists had previously been included in the investigation as one of the legitimate professions that would be allowed to do so. But now you've suddenly been taken away. The fact that questions arise from the industry and that one questions why one cannot continue to carry out one's work and carry out one's activities is not surprising to me. Indeed, there are a large number of women, often self-employed, who are hit very hard. Just when we make laws that have such a clear impact on freedom of trade, I think we need to be extra careful about explaining and clarifying and also show that we are prepared to reconsider the decisions if we see that something is missing.
i-84127737242618d4-806	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that I am not the one claiming anything. It is an investigation that has been carried out, and the proposed proposal was supported by the Swedish Health Care Association, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. Of course, it is important that they receive an answer. I agree with Sofia Nilsson. However, I would like to say firmly that it is not that nobody had any idea about this issue before. The issue was raised, and it was assessed that a broad general medical competence is needed. With all due respect that one can have a nutritional perspective on the issue, the whole purpose of the legislation is to increase patient safety. It wasn't that you were previously just part of it. We had no regulation, which was an incredibly unfortunate situation. There were also several investigations that simply did not measure up; when there were referral rounds and it was to be prepared with the interested parties, it did not have support. It was not thought that it was a good piece of legislation. Now we finally have legislation in place, and it is clear that it will be evaluated. The main reasons are as follows. First of all, you should have a broad general medical competence, be able to provide treatment and manage complications. The legislation itself is not about having permission to perform beauty surgery or perform aesthetic injections on any specific part of the body; it applies to the whole body. That is why it is a matter of general medical competence. This is also about the identity as such, not about the individual's competence to be tested. That is the path we have chosen to avoid all the complications that existed before when this was unregulated. At the time, it was about regulating by taking up which licence professions should be allowed to perform the operations. I have no new answers compared to what I have said in my interpellation response or in my previous posts. I choose to stay here. But of course there are reasons, and they have been communicated. Of course, they can be communicated again with those concerned.
i-84127737242618d4-812	Madam President, I would like The best outcome of this debate would probably be to back down one step and consider whether something was missed during the preparatory work on the law. Is it something that has emerged as a rapid consequence of the law's implementation that could be done over, reviewed and evaluated earlier than was originally intended? This is obviously a professional category that consists of qualified people who can perform advanced treatments on their face and teeth. It is licensed dental hygienists who do this in collaboration with dentists. They have not spoken in the process. The 2016 Beauty Investigation included dental hygienists, and they were recommended as one of the four groups. Then they were not allowed to speak during the rest of the work, so they left the investigation. I think it is important for the Minister, the Government and the industry to see if a professional group has been missed that could be involved in contributing to something positive in this area. They are not rogue, dangerous or screw up; they are a well - trained profession. Is it possible to do something so that they can get back into the business? The government has that possibility. Why not start by meeting the Swedish Dental Hygienist Association and discuss the issues? I hope that this will be the outcome of the debate and that it will not have to be held again.
i-84127737242618d4-817	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his reply. There is not much more to get out of this debate. I wish the Moderates had already drawn attention to these issues at the preparatory stage of the dossier. Then we might have been able to act more together and push for more. It is a question of once again highlighting the question of whether there is something that can be done differently and whether this group should be included. Now we are in this situation; the legislation is in place and is in force. I would like to send the Minister a further look at the question of dental hygienists in the future, the demands to be made and whether they meet the requirements. Is it possible to regulate the requirements so that it is shown that dental hygienists have the skills needed to perform the treatment in a patient-safe and safe manner?
i-84127737242618d4-820	Madam President, I would like There are also those who think that it should be a question of specialised nurses, that is to say, even more difficult who is allowed to perform the operations. It is not clear that the review is moving in one direction, I would like to inform both interpellants about. The whole task was to avoid complications and get a patient-safe operation, just as Sofia Nilsson said. This is not done so that someone should be grounded. Nor do we see that it is clear that someone has the right skills. But we choose not to bring them. It has been considered that general medical competence is important. The dilemma is that it is safe to find individual dental hygienists. The right to conduct the business is linked to the licence and the licence professions, not the individual competences. What skills do you have with your ID? The assessment is that it has not been sufficient to fulfil all the functions of both performing a treatment and taking care of complications. The issue will be monitored and followed up by the Health and Welfare Inspection. I have very clearly noted Sofia Nilsson's interest since before. I do not think anyone is interested in limiting the possibility of operating, but everyone wants it to be done in a patient-proof manner. Right now, those are the decisions that apply.
i-84127737242618d4-824	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what assessment I make of whether the Swedish Armed Forces are an equal authority. She has also asked me how I intend to ensure that women also have access to appropriate materials and whether I intend to act to improve the entire supply chain and thus improve access to relevant materials for all. Finally, she has asked me what measures, in addition to material, I intend to take to promote equality within the Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces, together with 53 other authorities, are part of the Government's development programme for gender mainstreaming in government agencies. The programme aims to strengthen the work of the authorities so that their activities contribute even better to the achievement of gender equality policy objectives. Gender mainstreaming requires long-term development and change work and means that a gender perspective should be included and taken into account in all decision-making, at all levels and in all processes. It is basically a question of building an equal society and that government agencies should provide equal opportunities and services for everyone, regardless of gender. It is a question of fairness, but also of quality and accuracy in publicly funded activities. In addition to the government's annual governance and the agency's reporting of gender mainstreaming results, the Swedish Armed Forces had the task of providing a focus in September this year for the continued work on gender mainstreaming 2022 – 2025. The Swedish Armed Forces' work in this area is based on the overall mission for gender equality and equality. This includes Agenda 2030, Resolution 1325, gender mainstreaming, equal treatment and non-discrimination, and increasing the proportion of women employed by the Agency. In its focus, the Swedish Armed Forces relate to all gender equality policy objectives. I share the questioner's view that there should be personal material for everyone. With the delegation of employers' policy, it is the Authority that is responsible for both personnel and equipment issues. The Swedish Armed Forces have acquired specific material for women and are working to distribute and make it available. The government has also authorised the introduction of a new uniform system that is tested to suit both women and men. In connection with the annual report for the financial year 2021, the Swedish Armed Forces has the task of reporting in particular what measures are taken to ensure that the material being procured is properly designed for both women and men. I do not want to see this report, but they show that I and the government take this issue seriously. The Government reactivated the obligation to implement basic education with military service in 2017. The recruitment base for education now covers the entire population. I share the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment that this is one of the most important measures taken to increase the number of women within the agency. Since reactivation, according to the Swedish Armed Forces, the number of women in basic education has increased from 13 per cent to just over 20 per cent. Locally, these figures are higher, as at F 7 where the number of women in basic education is about 40%. The number of female students who have started the officers' programme has increased from 15 per cent to 25 per cent. One challenge for the Swedish Armed Forces is to attract women to service and to apply for employment in the agency. The fact that women who come into contact with the Swedish Armed Forces experience good treatment and receive the right equipment and good education is crucial for continued involvement in the defence. My picture is that the Swedish Armed Forces are carrying out targeted and structured work to increase gender equality within the agency. Work in the field of gender equality takes time, but the measures taken over a longer period of time are starting to produce results. However, it is important that the work continues unabated.
i-84127737242618d4-829	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister says the following in his reply to me: I agree, Madam President. Yet that is not how they are treated today. I've recently met women who tell me about panties that chafe so you'd rather sign out underpants than panties. The Minister says that the quantity is increasing, but more panties that hurt is not the solution, is it? In 2019, we stood here in this Chamber debating appropriate material for women – that there should be panties and bras designed to fit different women's bodies. Yet in 2021, two years later, there are still not suitable clothes for women within the Swedish Armed Forces. We have just heard the President tell us in his speech that we are celebrating that it is 100 years since women were given the right to vote. It was 33 years ago that women were allowed to start wage-working within the Swedish Armed Forces. Yet it is said that the delivery of new underwear, suitable for both a slim and a curvy woman, still has no fixed date. A sample collection via NSPA is available on patient tests. The process from patient testing to delivery usually takes up to 5 years, so I wonder if this will also take 100 years. From the Swedish side, we have worked for a long time with UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. That is something we are also working on in the foreign forces. Last year, Sweden ranked first when the EU's equality bodies ranked gender equality in the 27 Member States. The Swedish Armed Forces, as the Minister was, have the task of working with equality and equality. The Swedish Armed Forces also describe on their website a systematic and wide-ranging work to increase gender equality and equality within the Agency and gender equality in military operations. It was a long time before women were allowed to start working in the defence on the same terms as men, but now it is also a long time ago – in 1989, when I was 15 years old. This was when the Riksdag decided that women should also be admitted to all military positions. But women in defense are anything but a new phenomenon. For centuries, they have been doing military work in various forms — as paramedics, seamstresses, mechanics, or cooks. Slowly but surely the women have moved their positions forward. Yet today, 2021, there are not fit clothes. It is in the planning but actually not out in all activities. The proportion of women is increasing, and the Swedish Armed Forces are looking for more women. At the same time, they are met by an activity that is not equal. The women who come in are solution-focused and solve the task. But, Madam President, they are not given the same conditions. The Minister says that it is a question of justice, but also of quality and accuracy. I don't know how the minister thinks it's going to be more accurate or more quality if the women on the dressings prefer to wear underwear than panties. Is this the conditions, clothes that shake, that the Minister wants to give to those who will defend Sweden?
i-84127737242618d4-840	Madam President, I would like I note that we have an increase, as we have ordered things to quite a large extent delivered during the years 2019– 2021. I take 2021 as an example: 1 375 heat undershirt small sizes, 2 000 t-shirt M/ 05, 1 295 heat underpants small sizes, 3 300 heat underpants lady, 20,000 panty M/ 16, 16,000 mitten thin white PVC size 6. Then I have an extensive order of different varieties of gloves. We have women's lowshoes, we have robes paraded lady different models, pants paraded lady different models. There are thousands of things that have been ordered and delivered. For example, we have different variants of T-shirt: 27 000 T-shirt M/ 90 S size 3 – 4, 22 000 T-shirt M/ 90 LS size 3 – 4, M/ 90 SS blue size 3 – 4. Large-scale orders are therefore being made. As far as the distribution is concerned, there may be additional measures to be taken. But I believe that it is actually working within the Armed Forces on these issues. It has been delivered, deliveries are ongoing and there will be more deliveries. I also usually ask about this in connection with various unit visits and get it confirmed. What I am reacting to is the interpellier's way of debating the issue, like nothing has happened and nobody is doing anything. I think that is a wrong picture and a wrong description, both of the Swedish Armed Forces' ambition and of what is happening in reality. The picture is that there is not a garment that fits. I mean, you work on this. You're not all the way out. Things are done all the time. There is an awareness of the problem. When it comes to recruitment, it is something that is constantly being worked on within the Armed Forces. For example, when it comes to female conscripts during the years 2021 – 2022, they have increased to 21 percent in the entire Swedish Armed Forces. F 7 is 40 per cent, F 17 is 30 per cent, A 9 is 28 per cent, Trängregementet is 41 per cent and Sjöstriksskolan is 39 per cent. These are positive examples that I would like to highlight in this context. I am quite convinced that in the future we will see a gradual increase in the proportion of both conscripts and permanent staff in terms of female representation. So things are being done. Positions are being moved forward. That is not the style of this matter, and the authority takes it seriously.
i-84127737242618d4-847	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the extended answer. There are of course lots of things ordered by the Swedish Armed Forces to the Swedish Armed Forces all the time. Nevertheless, the question has to be asked whether what is being ordered, what the Minister is reading here, is appropriate material. I know that, according to the action plan for equal supply of materials, there are things that are on the roll, but it takes a very long time. As I was on, we talked about it in this Chamber two years ago. Then it would have taken more than 30 years to get this out. It's almost 33 years now. I'm thinking if this were about underpants, the problem would have been solved. That's what a man in the Armed Forces said to me the other day. Of course, even men see these problems. I have had to report that the order of materials is made but that the patient tests come in so late in the process that the results of the tests are not included in the order. Then they're of no use. A woman said to me the other day, the words in her mouth don't reflect reality. I heard stories about a bra with a zipper that shakes when moving and especially during shooting exercises. At one point, the gun was to be shot against the sternum. There, Madam President, was the zipper. It took weeks for the wounds to heal after the drag chain. The minister says that supplies are on their way. As I said earlier, he said so in 2019. I think, Madam President, that several other countries seem to be able to solve these problems and the task of proper clothes for both sexes. So they are available anywhere in the world. But in Sweden this is a lengthy problem, and I can't really understand why it should have to be a problem. In the rest of society it is quite easy to find clothes for both men and women. During my term of office in the Defence Committee, I have met people in different positions within the Swedish Armed Forces and talked about the issue of a uniform adapted to women as well. All in all, I can say that they are frustrated and feel questioned. There are seemingly simple measures that can be taken and marginal investments that can be made relative to the Swedish Armed Forces' budget, yet the problem cannot be solved – after 33 years. Could it be in the process? Can it sit in the culture? It could be in the culture. Organizational cultures are difficult to control; they eat strategies for breakfast. I wonder: what action does the Minister intend to take? FOI's report Career barriers for military women tells how military women face other barriers to their careers than men do. Here's a point. Material for women needs to be prioritised based on actual problems. So it is not a question of whining at appearances, but of health and safety risks. The necessary measures need to be taken to prevent the exposure of employees and obliged women to these risks. The Pliktrådet also testifies to the problem of clothing in its report on chafing, pain and underwear for conscript women. It's brand new, from this year. There you lift up the same problem, but also that in some places you only get five pairs of panties or underpants. I do not know how others in this House do, but at least I am brought up to change underwear every day. I don't know why men and women would have less hygiene just because they're in the Armed Forces. It must be made clear that women are as welcome as men. Today, unfortunately, the equipment signals something else. If you are serious about wanting more girls and women in the Armed Forces, you have to develop equipment that allows us to perform on equal terms.
i-84127737242618d4-861	Madam President, I would like I've never used words in these contexts like I would have thought anything was a whining. Nor have I justified restraint with arguments about security risks or anything like that. I do not want to be associated with a debate technique that tries to paint on me some kind of picture that I do not stand for at all. These questions are not something that is belittled. They say I've told you that supplies are on their way. Yeah, I told you. But I have also said that a great deal of material has been delivered. I listed large-scale supplies of equipment. But when I listen to the interpellier, it's like this wouldn't have happened or it's not worth it. You have to be able to take on board and see that things are actually happening! Nor is it the case that this happens by itself, but it is done through decisions and the provision of financial resources. I am not saying that everything is fine and that all the problems are solved, but one must be able to have a balanced view where one actually takes to heart that things are happening and that work is being done. It must also be possible to respect this work. This is not just black and white, but I think the truth lies in the fact that the Armed Forces know that this is a problem. Orders are made, funds are set aside. There are quite a lot of deliveries. More work needs to be done on distributing this to the units, and further orders must also be made in the future. There must also be dialogue on these issues and on adjustments. The interpellant gives the impression that nothing is happening or that nothing has happened since 2019. But as early as 2019, in the debate we had then, I listed extensive orders that had taken place in the Swedish Armed Forces. And now there have been even bigger orders. I think it is important to have this said as well. It has thus been delivered, and it will be delivered. The reality is that the number of women in the Swedish Armed Forces has increased in terms of both civilian staff, permanent military personnel and conscripts. This increase is most likely to continue, and increase even more, in the future. So it is in no way the case that women are not taken in or that women's conditions are not taken into account. But, as I said, more needs to be done. I am pleased that we have a better gender balance. I think that workplaces with a mix of men and women usually become better workplaces than if only one sex dominates. I see this as just a positive development, and I also believe that it will enrich the Swedish Armed Forces in its development work, just as it enriches all other workplaces in Sweden. It is the balance that is the important thing here, and here there is a lot more to do. At least that is the view that I stand for. We are pursuing with continuity the reasoning of the armed forces' leadership on these very issues. We also have in our regulations to the Swedish Armed Forces directives that they should work on these issues, which they also do.
i-84127737242618d4-869	Madam President and the Minister. I still think it is good that we are clearly told that the Minister for Defence thinks it is good with both women and men within the Swedish Armed Forces. The question is why they do not have the same conditions. More of the same doesn't solve the problem. More panties with chafing seams do not solve the problem; it does not matter how many you order. If the so-called feminist government lacks knowledge of existing material-related health and safety risks for women, I can gladly hand over the Plikt Council's report. I can also tell you that there are lots of wise women and men in our businesses who are happy to share their experiences. The Plikt Council report shares nine points for improvement, even. It's not about brain surgery, it's about all conscripts, whether they're women or men, getting out seven pairs of underwear and the seams of panties to be reviewed so that they don't chafe. Nowadays there are so-called seamless models to buy. You could have two different models of panties – one with longer legs to avoid chafing at the march and one with short legs that should also fit if you have a little larger thigh circumference. There should be a bra without zipper so that you can not chaf. These are not very high demands, I think, and this has been fought for over 30 years. Madam President, I would like I don't feel I'm getting a proper answer to any of my questions. Or perhaps it is a clear answer to me: that the Minister does not actually think that this is something to do about. I think this is tragic. It's not taking responsibility. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that gender-neutral military service does not automatically mean equality. So it is not enough; it is not the same. A government – whether feminist or not – should take more responsibility than it does today. The words in your mouth don't reflect reality.
i-84127737242618d4-875	Madam President, I would like Now I'm not a brain surgeon, and I don't know if Alexandra Anstrell has that kind of ambition in life. On the other hand, I have explained what we are actually doing in the form of large-scale orders, and I do not think that the interpeller in any way seems to put any value on all the work that is being done on this point. She chooses to ignore the fact that it would exist. I've also had contact with the Plikt Council. I have extensive activities in relation to unit visits, and there is a wide range of issues being discussed in terms of activity orientation. The issue of clothing and uniforms also comes up with regularity. I would like to remind you that the Swedish Armed Forces have a focus on gender equality policy objectives. I will not go through it in detail now, but the headlines are: equal distribution of power and influence, economic equality, equal education, equal distribution of unpaid home and care work, equal health and men's violence against women are to cease. Within the framework of all these points, it is then specified how to continue working in each area. I think it is important that the various problems that may exist in such a large organisation as the Swedish Armed Forces be gradually addressed. However, I would also like to say that I think it is a good thing that progress is being made in terms of gender balance and that more women are entering the business. I think it is a good thing that we are gradually trying to address the problems that exist. Nor do I think that we should engage in unnecessary blacking-out and excessive discussions. We should take on board what is actually happening in a positive direction.
i-84127737242618d4-882	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked the following questions under the heading of HDP's imprisoned politicians and the Kurdish question in Turkey, Europe and Sweden: What measures does Sweden as an individual state and as a member of the EU intend to take to persuade the Turkish Government and the President to respect international law, democratic principles and human rights? Will the Minister in the EU and for Sweden demand the release of leading HDP politicians such as Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekda中 and other elected politicians at municipal and county level? What does Sweden intend to do to develop diplomatic relations with Turkey so that Sweden can contribute to a more democratic development in a Turkey where human rights, the rights of all ethnic groups and women's rights are respected? Will Sweden take the initiative to persuade Erdo中an to resolve the Kurdish issue through a peaceful solution? The government takes very seriously the developments in Turkey and the shortcomings in respect for human rights, including the situation of elected representatives. We need to make clear when developments are going in the wrong direction. International law must be respected, including human rights and international humanitarian law. The EU, with the support of Sweden, has presented this to representatives of the Turkish Government on several occasions at different levels, including the UN Security Council. The EU has imposed restrictive measures against Turkey regarding illegal test drilling in the eastern Mediterranean. In addition, the Government considers that the EU's response to negative developments in the area of human rights should include the possibility of various measures, including sanctions. I have expressed this position in the Foreign Affairs Council in the past. The serious human rights situation in Turkey applies not least to opposition politicians, in particular from the pro-Kurdian party HDP. It is not acceptable for opposition politicians to be detained, detained and replaced on arbitrary grounds. Free opposition is a prerequisite for a democratic and pluralist society. Sweden has publicly and in the EU context particularly criticised Turkey's actions to remove individual MPs and mayors and to try to dissolve HDP as a party. We have sent similar messages directly to Turkish representatives. I have also met with representatives of HDP to discuss their situation and express my support, most recently in connection with my visit to Ankara last autumn. The government attaches great importance to compliance with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and actively participates in the enforcement of the judgments within the framework of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee. Turkey is invited to take steps to ensure the immediate release of, inter alia, Osman Kavala, Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda The Swedish foreign authorities in Turkey promote greater respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law as an important part of the diplomatic mission. These include, for example, the monitoring of trials against HDP representatives and other opposition politicians and human rights defenders, as well as efforts to ensure the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls. In our contacts with Turkey, the government will continue to demand reforms that strengthen democracy and the full enjoyment of human rights by all people. We believe that dialogue and engagement with government, Parliament, opposition and civil society remains the best way to monitor these issues – and to reverse the negative developments in Turkey. For example, during Sweden's Presidency of the OSSE, we have been able to work well with Turkey on several important issues. I have previously explained the government's view of the shortcomings in respect for human rights, including the situation of elected representatives in the responses to questions from 2020/ 21:2433 and 2020/ 21:1766 by Markus Wiechel, question 2020/ 21:2343 by Sara Gille and questions from 2020/ 21: 3223 and 2020/ 21:3224 by Amineh Kakabaveh.
i-84127737242618d4-888	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer and commitment. While we repeatedly raise these issues in the Swedish Parliament and in the European Parliament or in the Council of Ministers, the Erdo中an regime continues to imprison politicians and Kurds on a daily basis. The elected members and mayors of HDP have been replaced by their own men, although they are elected by the people. The most famous names are Figen and Demirtaş, who are the leader of the party and are in prison together with 4,000 other members of the HDP. There are also 10 000 oppositionists who are imprisoned, including journalists and women's rights activists. Everyone who deals with the Kurdish issue is today called terrorists. Unfortunately, this means that Sweden and the EU are paralysed and cannot discuss the Kurdish issue. Anyone discussing the Kurdish issue in Turkey is called terrorists, regardless of their names. This applies not only to there, but also to the Kurds in Iraq and Syria. We know that in Parliament, Mr Erdo中an has made it possible to extend the attacks or occupation of Syria and continue to be there. Time and again we hear that Turkey is using chemical weapons in the border areas with Kurdistan and Iraq. The other day, the Shingal area, the Yazidian area, was bombed with drone attacks. Two children died in a car that was bombed. Every day, civilians fall victim to the aggressive policy of Erdoa only in the Kurdish parts. We also know that Turkey's aggression extends all the way to Libya and other Mediterranean countries. The question is: Is it not time to reconsider decisions in the EU and stop calling terrorists terrorist parties – HDP and IPG, who are fighting against Daish and for the rights of the Kurds? Now I know that neither the EU nor Sweden have said that HDP and the other parties are terrorists, but when Erdo I think it should also be time to remove PKK from that list. History has shown that all parties in Turkey that have promoted the Kurdish issue have been called terrorists. They've been forced to change their name and restart. We know that BDP became HDP. That's a lot of different names. HDP is now in danger of being dissolved in Turkey. My question is: if you have succeeded so well, what is the result? It would be very interesting to hear what is the result of the work that has been done in the OSSE.
i-84127737242618d4-895	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a European country, and the EU is our main foreign policy arena. Europe is the continent that is most important to us and which I personally have devoted a great deal of time to in recent years, both as a foreign minister and as President of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE. Amineh Kakabaverh asks what we have done in the OSSE. As Chairman of the OSCE, Sweden has placed democracy, human rights and the rule of law high on the agenda on the basis of the OSCE's so-called broad concept of security. The European Council has decided that the EU is ready to hold discussions with Turkey in a gradual, proportionate and reversible manner in order to improve cooperation in a number of areas of common interest, subject to the conditionality established in March and in previous European Council conclusions. The dialogue on human rights, democracy and the rule of law remains an integral part of EU-Turkey relations. Together with like-minded countries within the OSSE but also within the EU, the Council of Europe and the UN, Sweden continues to work tirelessly to strengthen this dialogue and to try to reverse the negative developments in Turkey. We are also pushing these issues nationally with great force. Seven years ago Sweden launched the feminist foreign policy, because we believe that the fulfilment of women's and girls' human rights is an obligation and a prerequisite for Sweden to achieve broader foreign policy goals in terms of peace, security and sustainable development. Almost three years ago, the government also launched a democracy initiative in foreign policy. Here both the feminist foreign policy and the democracy effort permeate all the talks and everything we do. They mobilise the entire foreign administration at all levels and are a central part of our work in Turkey. For it is now that authoritarian trends are growing stronger, even in our own region, that we must offer an opposite narrative. We must gather together and stand up for the principles, processes and defenders of democracy, wherever and whenever it is needed. Incidentally, I had the discussion about Turkey with the Syrian Kurds' female leader Ilham Ahmed – they have two leaders – when she was in Sweden last week. As usual, we had a very constructive and forward-looking conversation.
i-84127737242618d4-902	Madam President, I would like I also believe that dialogue should be the best way, but there has been dialogue with Turkey on democracy and human rights for 40 years. This was already done under Erbakan, Ecevit and other governments. There was no solution for either human rights or women's rights or the rights of the Kurds and other minorities until when little, little hope was sparked when Turkey signed the so-called Copenhagen criteria. But what happened to it? Since then, Turkey's aggressiveness against its own population, namely the Kurds and the socialist movement HDP, has taken off. Turkey has withdrawn the Istanbul Convention. For example, wife abuse and other things are now legal. It guaranteed women's rights. From a democratic point of view and in terms of security, Turkey is now a huge danger to the whole region. Can the Foreign Minister say something about what will happen now that the US leaves Iraq and when the US will also leave Syria? What's going to happen? Yes, we know that who have experience in this. Turkey will extend occupation and militarisation towards Iraq, but also towards Syria and its own people, plus civil war will affect mainly minorities, the Kurds in Rojava, Iraq and Syria. That is why my question is: is there any preparation? Will the UN send alternatives to the area to simply prevent the scenario that has arisen with the Taliban Islamists in Afghanistan from arising there too – the same scenario that was six years ago, before the Kurds merged with other minorities and militaryly defeated, at least temporarily, Daish? It is very important to say that, because Erdo中an has talked about the restoration of the Ottoman Empire at the expense of minorities, the Kurds, women and Christian minorities in the various parts. It's happening to them. Whether it is Daish or Turkey or any other regime, they have been affected by this. In addition, everyone knows that Turkey is cooperating with Daish against the Kurds. I also met Ilham Ahmed. She said to us: We have on one side Turkey and on the other side Daish. The third is Bashar al-Asad-Assad. And it's the same for all the Kurds. They've sort of ended up in the middle of a game of power. We must take this seriously before various other scenarios arise. But it won't work as long as Kurds, parties and freedom fighters are called terrorists. That is why I wrote Sweden and the EU and Turkey. People who come as refugees are called by the secret services for terrorists. For me, it's absurd.
i-84127737242618d4-909	Madam President, I would like The government today published 16 updated reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Europe, including Turkey. They can be downloaded on the government.se. While many of these reporting countries share experiences of moving from violence and authoritarian rule to democracy and respect for human rights, the report on Turkey unfortunately shows that respect for human rights is being eroded. The human rights situation in Turkey is characterised by the two-year state of emergency introduced following the coup attempt in 2016 and subsequent legislative changes, which have weakened important democratic control mechanisms and further strengthened the office of President. In particular, the independence of the judiciary and legal certainty have been undermined. The judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are not consistently enforced. Corruption continues to be a widespread problem. Laws against terrorism and crimes against the state are used to silence dissidents and regime critics in Turkey. This applies not least to opposition politicians, especially from the pro-Kurdian People's Democratic Party, HDP. The negative trend continues with regard to freedom of expression, press and information. The scope for civil society is shrinking. The protection of trade union rights is inadequate. In March 2021, President Erdo中an decided that Turkey would withdraw from the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence, precisely the one that Amineh Kakabaveh mentioned, namely the Istanbul Convention. That is deeply regrettable. The armed conflict between government forces and the terrorist-stamped PKK organisation – we have no plans to remove the terrorist stamp – contributes to a particularly difficult situation in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in south-east Turkey, where the majority of the population are ethnic Kurds. In the last local elections in Turkey, 2019, the opposition parties in several major municipalities, including Istanbul and the capital city of Ankara, won. Since then, a number of legislative and administrative changes have been introduced that restrict power at local level. Several elected mayors of HDP have been prevented from taking up and being replaced by trustees appointed by the government. Of a total of 65 municipalities where HDP won in the local elections, the party now governs only in 6 municipalities. Disciplinary matters are used to a disproportionate extent against opposition politicians. This spring, a high profile trial was launched against several leading HDP representatives accused of crimes in connection with the so-called Kobane demonstrations in 2014. In March 2021, the Prosecutor General requested that HDP be banned and that approximately 450 of the party's leading representatives be banned from political activities. A large number of HDP representatives are in prison. We agree that developments in Turkey are deeply worrying. There is broad agreement on this in the Swedish Parliament and in the EU. Sweden will not be silent when we see that individual rights are violated or when democracy is challenged and questioned, not in Turkey or anywhere else.
i-84127737242618d4-918	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your report. Hundreds of pages can be written describing repression and violations of human rights, war crimes and violations of international law where chemical weapons are used in war. As early as 1997, the Geneva Protocol prohibited the use of chemical weapons in war. Turkey has done this, and I wonder what Sweden and the EU are doing to condemn Turkey in this regard. There is evidence that Turkey has done so. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that it does not want to remove the terror stamp, and this prevents all the work that we do in Sweden and the EU to promote human rights because it extends the power of Erdo中an to occupy other countries. This is known both to me and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the entire Swedish Parliament and all EU politicians. As long as all these parties in Rojava, in Syria and in parts of Iran and Iraq have a terrorist stamp, it will help Erdo Just read Jan Guillou' article from last week, most recently in Aftonbladet! This affects many Kurds here too. I believe that if we really are serious about standing up for the rights of the Kurds and others and that the issue is to be resolved through dialogue, we must be prepared to review and reconsider our decisions, as we have dared to do in Belgium, for example. Otherwise, the problem in the Middle East will only be extended. The Palestinians and the Kurds become a different scenario. I have not received an answer from the Foreign Minister about what happens when the United States leaves.
i-84127737242618d4-923	Madam President, I would like As far as the PKK is concerned, we and the EU as a whole believe that it is a terrorist organisation, and we have no plans to remove the terrorist stamp. However, other organisations should not suffer from this, but it is precisely PKK. We are clearly drawing attention to the fact that developments in Turkey are going in the wrong direction. We are addressing these issues directly with Turkey, and we are working with a number of organisations to strengthen human rights, democracy and the rule of law, including women's human rights. To continue this work, the government has just adopted a new approach to bilateral reform aid, which has as its overall objective to strengthen respect for this in Turkey and to strengthen the conditions for an equal society. With the support of reform, we will continue to promote an open and European-oriented democratic Turkish society. It remains essential to support and safeguard an independent and pluralistic civil society and freedom of expression and media in Turkey. Sweden's work for this is important and makes a difference. In addition, I note that the latest polls in Turkey show a reduction in support for the Erdo中an party and an increase in support for parties such as CHP and HDP, which suggests that it is not impossible to have another government in Turkey.
i-84127737242618d4-927	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me what measures I will take to get Azerbaijan to hand over all the prisoners of war and what other measures I would like to take against Azerbaijan if they do not cooperate. As has already been said in response to similar questions, the Council welcomes the recent agreements between Azerbaijan and Armenia by which Azerbaijan has handed over detained Armenian soldiers to Armenia. Azerbaijan was given access to Armenian maps of delineated mines. The United States and Georgia took active action to facilitate the first of these agreements, in which the Swedish OSCE Presidency also assisted. The government hopes that these agreements will lay the foundations for further confidence building measures. Several outstanding issues remain between the two countries. I fully support the efforts of the Andrzej Group and my personal representative, Ambassador Kasprzyk, to achieve peaceful and sustainable solutions to these issues and to implement further confidence-building measures. On 14 and 16 March I visited Azerbaijan and Armenia as Chairman of the OSCE, and in September I met my fellow foreign ministers from both countries in New York. I also met the two foreign ministers during the EU Foreign Ministers meeting and at the Conference of Ministers on 1 and 3 December. In my meetings with representatives from Armenia and Azerbaijan, I have stressed that they have an obligation to comply with international humanitarian law, including the transfer of prisoners. I have called on both sides to fully implement the agreement of 9 November last year and to cooperate fully with the International Committee of the Red Cross in order to reach a solution on this issue. I have repeatedly stressed the importance of humanitarian access and that countries fully implement their commitments of 9 November 2020, which they reconfirmed in a trilateral statement on 26 November this year, and other agreed ceasefire arrangements.
i-84127737242618d4-932	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Linde both for her reply and for being here for this interpellation debate. Madam President, I would like Last year, in November, I think it was, in connection with the end of the 45-day war, that large parts of the world urged both countries to descalate the conflict. It has been more than a year now, and it is very clear who started the war. Even then you knew it, but you didn't dare take a stand. What is the reason for this is that we can debate a lot, but it is clear. Armenia is a democracy, and this democracy was put to the test this year. There was a risk of a military coup, but the Armenian civilian population persisted and re-elected a democratic government. Azerbaijan is a dictatorship. Again, when you look at the talks and the negotiations, you see that in the trilateral agreement everyone was against everyone. However, Armenia does not have any Azerbaijani prisoners of war left; it is Azerbaijan that is sitting on the prisoners of war. But they do not recognize the number but use it as a political lever. In the EU and Sweden we stand passively. The United States was fully occupied with its internal electoral processes. Russia reached a trilateral agreement. Once again, we produced paper products from Europe, but we lost our ability to influence. France was the only country that went one step ahead and is once again the country that is engaging in this conflict. It's just France. The day before yesterday, President Macron had a sudden encounter with the two leaders from Armenia and Azerbaijan. It is France that is committed to this issue, but although we are the OSSE Presidency, which is to promote peace and security, the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not dare to speak clearly. Every time something happens in this matter, you call on both countries. Azerbaijan won the war, and they have the military and economic resources, while Armenia is the losing side. Azerbaijan launched a new attack on 16 November. International independent media have reported on this. Then the question is: why do you stand passively on the question and say that you call on both countries? Every time you call both countries, Russia gets to play its game. The OSSE, against its will, accepted the trilateral ceasefire, for Europe had well realised that it had been passive on this issue. What makes the difference is that there is only a small hope for democracy in this region, and that is Armenia. We see this in other parts when it comes to the EU and when deeper cooperation agreements are to be concluded with Armenia and when it comes to aid and the Eastern Partnership Agreement. All other countries are going in the wrong direction. Surely, the signal from small democratic Sweden must be that we stand up for small democracies, especially when it comes to a dictatorship that has bent its arm with an even larger dictatorship – Turkey. My question to the Foreign Minister is: what action will the Foreign Minister take if Azerbaijan does not release all prisoners of war with immediate effect, as the EU and the Council of Europe have demanded?
i-84127737242618d4-942	Madam President, I would like The battles of last autumn were intense, and they have caused a great deal of human suffering to the population of both countries. Sweden condemns attacks on civil and civil infrastructure. International humanitarian law and human rights must be respected, and Sweden strives for justice for all who have suffered and continue to suffer from the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. After several weeks of intense fighting, the parties agreed a little over a year ago to cease fire and a series of commitments. And I have welcomed this statement on the ceasefire. The government also welcomes the recent agreements between Azerbaijan and Armenia, in which Azerbaijan has surrendered detained Armenian soldiers to Armenia. However, the conflict is not over and many issues remain to be resolved. Now the focus of the Minsk Group's co-chairs is to support further steps towards peaceful and sustainable solutions for the region and to implement more confidence-building measures between the parties. In the context of the UN General Assembly meeting in New York at the end of September, the Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan met under the auspices of the Co-Chair of the Minsk Group. It is, as I said, Russia, the United States and France. I also met with the two foreign ministers to underline Sweden's position on the importance of humanitarian access to the whole area, compliance with international humanitarian law, the release of all prisoners and a return to a peaceful negotiated solution to the conflict under the co-chair of the OSCE Minsk Group. I welcomed this meeting and the meeting in Paris from 10 to 11 November, in which the two countries' Foreign Ministers and the Minsk Group co-chairs took part under the leadership of the French Foreign Minister. I expressed my hope that this will lay the foundations for further confidence-building measures. As Chairman of the OSSE, Sweden has consistently given its full support to this process. In March, as I said, I visited both Azerbaijan and Armenia. And I stressed at my meetings and in continued talks several times this year that both states are obliged to comply with international humanitarian law and international commitments in the field of human rights. I have also called on both sides to fully implement the 9 November agreement and to cooperate fully with the International Committee of the Red Cross, including with regard to the surrender of prisoners. At the same time, fundamental contradictions remain in the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, which does not agree on the way to a peace treaty and the role that the Minsk Group co-chairs should play in the process. The intensified fighting last autumn shows how these protracted conflicts can easily become full-scale wars. I welcome the agreement reached on the ceasefire after all. But there is a very long way to go to a lasting peace. The OSSE has an important role to play even now that we leave the Presidency. And the Minsk Group has the tools to resolve the outstanding issues in the conflict. Their efforts are needed to find peaceful solutions that benefit the population of both countries in the long term.
i-84127737242618d4-954	Madam President, I would like I didn't get an answer to my question. If you look at the trilateral agreement, it says that all prisoners of war should be exchanged. Armenia has no prisoners of war left. It is Azerbaijan that has prisoners of war and uses them as a means of political pressure. Then free democracies who are in favour of sustainable and long-term peace and who uphold international law – there is Sweden, our beloved Sweden, a success example – must dare to make demands of the dictatorship in Azerbaijan. Because it's a dictatorship. When it comes to freedom of the press, political prisoners and democracy, they rank at the bottom. They are among countries like Iran. But I cannot understand why it is so difficult for the Foreign Minister to take a position on this issue. I can take as an example on 16 November of this year when Azerbaijan again attacked the territorial sovereignty of the Republic of Armenia. That's when 31 prisoners of war were captured. Of these 31, 10 have been returned. What happened to the remaining 21? Should we call on both countries to pursue international law once again, when, even after the war, one of them once again captures Armenian citizens? Then you do not get a long-term lasting peace. Anyone who follows geopolitics knows that Baku wants a corridor through Armenian territory, not only to get back into Nachitjevan, but also directly to Turkey. In the previous interpellation debate, Turkey's involvement in northern Syria was discussed. We can talk about Turkey's involvement in northern Iraq if we get involvement in Azerbaijan. I would remind the Foreign Minister of Iran's great military exercise at the beginning of November along the border with Azerbaijan. What I warned against at the time, Madam President, was that if Europe does not assume its responsibilities in this small conflict, there will be a risk that three major powers, three non-democrats, will want to redraw the map in the Caucasus. We may think that the Caucasus is just a mountainous area. But those in control of the Caucasus also have great economic opportunities. There will also be a link with Central Asia. Madam President, I would like Again, what measures does the Minister of Foreign Affairs intend to take both as Chairman of the OSSE until the end of the year and as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sweden for the maintenance of international law against Azerbaijan? I can mention Holland, which is a democracy and closely allied to Sweden and also a member of the European Union. The Dutch Parliament has voted through a resolution calling on the Dutch Government at European level to press ahead with an international independent investigation into the Nagorno-Karabakh war. If the Dutch Government addresses this at European level, will the Minister of Foreign Affairs support an international independent investigation? This is when we can ensure that those who have committed crimes against international law – individuals or the state – are held accountable. The only way to achieve a lasting peace is to make a deal. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: will the Dutch Government be supported at European level?
i-84127737242618d4-966	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that I answered Mr Arin's question about prisoners of war. I have certainly met the foreign ministers from Armenia and Azerbaijan more than five times in the last year and have constantly demanded that all prisoners of war be handed over. It is a pity that Mr Arin did not hear this answer or chose not to hear it. On the issue of the Dutch government initiative, we have not seen such an initiative sent to us. When it comes, of course, as with all other initiatives, we will make an evaluation of it. With regard to the Southern Caucasus, I also find it strange that it may have escaped Mr Arin that it is the Swedish former cabinet secretary who is the special representative of the OSSE for the relationship in the Southern Caucasus and has repeatedly visited Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan during the year for closer cooperation and has had very good discussions. But maybe it's also gone by Arin Karapet. As far as how we work with the so-called Minsk Group is concerned, it is a long-term and sustained effort to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. That is what is needed for the populations of both countries, and not least in Nagorno-Karabakh. I fully support the efforts made by the three Minsk co-chairmen from France, the United States and Russia and by the personal representative, Andrzej Kasprzyk, from Poland. This also means that we are available for the things that the various co-chairmen, the personal representative and the two countries want the OSSE to do. We are very clear in the demands for humanitarian access to the whole area, for compliance with international humanitarian law and human rights and for the release – once again – of all prisoners. I say this once again: all prisoners must be released. We must return to a peaceful negotiated solution to the conflict in order to achieve a sustainable peace. In our OSCE delegation in Vienna, too, we have had frequent contacts with Armenia and Azerbaijan. We have called for different types of confidence-building steps for a sustainable solution, including on the issue of the detainees, and underlined the importance of international humanitarian law. Also next year, when we are not Chairman of the OSSE but are in the OSCE Troika, Sweden will continue to work on this conflict as part of the OSCE Presidency troika together with Poland and North Macedonia. The government, of course, takes the information on suspected war crimes very seriously. I have pointed out on several occasions that persons involved in serious violations of international law, human rights violations and abuse must be held accountable for their actions. Punishment is not an option, Madam President. Under international law, all states involved have an obligation to investigate whether suspected war crimes have been committed, and this also applies in this conflict. I will continue to emphasise the responsibility for bringing war criminals to justice in a careful, transparent and prompt manner.
i-84127737242618d4-975	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now I have an answer. I'm happy. When you get an answer, you should also thank for it. The Foreign Minister has not been so clear in the past, but that is the purpose of the interpellation debate tool. For the first time, I have received a very clear answer from a Minister of the Social Democratic Government. I usually do not get answers from other ministers, but now I have a clear answer. I sincerely hope that Sweden continues to use its role to promote long-term peace and sustainability. It's incredibly important in an area like the Caucasus. It's a powder keg. It is very easy for that region to be forgotten. As I have already said, we must not forget to look historically at the Russian Empire, the Persian Empire and the Ottoman Empire. Just as Amineh Kakabaveh was on the subject, it is no secret that Turkey's doctrine of foreign policy is to be based on panturkism. It is therefore incredibly important that Sweden and the rest of the EU, a democratic Union, promote peace and democracy and ensure that international law is upheld. Those who have committed violations of international law, regardless of which country they are from, shall be punished. We know, Madam President, that democratic countries do not start wars against each other. The more countries become democratic, the calmer our world and our world around us. But I repeat myself. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Foreign Minister Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will remain in Sweden. You never know. Something can happen in the world, and then you have to stop your leave. I hope that the Foreign Minister will be able to associate with loved ones with reduced flight hours.
i-84127737242618d4-979	Madam President, I would like In my last speech, let me say how Sweden supports Armenia's reform efforts in various ways. Democracy and human rights, environment and climate and economic development are key areas of bilateral reform cooperation with Armenia, which started in 2019. Swedish support is governed by a regional strategy for Sweden's reform work with Eastern Europe, the Western Balkans and Turkey until 2021. Now we're working on the new seven-year plan. In 2020, we contributed SEK 49 million to the reform cooperation with Armenia, including the Kvinna till Kvinna Foundation and to various issues related to the consequences of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Yesterday, the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, met the leaders of Armenia and Azerbaijan, Mr Pasjinian and Mr Alijev, at a joint meeting in the context of the East-P Summit on 15 December to promote cooperation and reconciliation. I welcome that meeting and hope that it will be an important step in deepening relations. Finally, I would like to wish Mr Arin a Merry Christmas. As the infection is now rising, I would like, if I may, Mr President, to hand over a mouthguard with the flags of Sweden and Armenia embroidered.
i-84127737242618d4-983	Oh, thank you so much! This is going to go home in social media. Thank you very much. )
i-84127737242618d4-984	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me how I intend to deal with the issue of Bromma airport in the future. On 27 April 2021, the Government Office commissioned a letter investigator to analyse and report on how the operations and operations at Bromma airport can be formally phased out. The letter investigator reported on his assignment on 31 August 2021. The report was subsequently submitted for consultation until 20 December 2021. The Government will return to the Riksdag to provide information on how the Government intends to deal with the announcements that exist.
i-84127737242618d4-986	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Infrastructure very much for the answer, although in all honesty I may think it was not much of a response. The question of Bromma is a long story. The Minister for Infrastructure has been here several times debating the matter with me and others, and it will probably come back for discussion in this House. Basically, as I see it very much, it is about how you view aviation and its future. Is this an important mode of transport for Swedish growth and development, or is it the root of much of the climate problems we see? We Moderates have always protected and will always protect aviation. We see that the flight is changing. The conditions for us to be able to fly fossil-free in the future would be very good. The air force has been hit hard by the pandemic. Nevertheless, in the midst of the pandemic, the government chooses to create uncertainty and disorder and initiate an early closure of Bromma, a closure that would pull away the carpet for the recovery of Swedish domestic aviation. The tours around the question of Bromma are problematic. An order was given to Swedavia, who presented a report that was classified. The reactions from here were very strong and clear. There is an announcement from 2016 that Bromma will develop. However, in response to this report by Swedavia, a further announcement was made that a discussion on Bromma's future cannot take place until the pandemic has resolved and we see what aviation's recovery looks like. Mr President, I would like to This announcement came after the government set up an investigation that was heavily governed by its directives. It was about Bromma being decommissioned, not if it was to be decommissioned. Even here, the government could have acted on that announcement by amending the directives or extending the investigation period, but none of it chose the government to do so. The investigation was delivered after the summer. It created great uncertainty and anxiety. The investigator did not have the task of looking at what needs there were to develop Arlanda, but was clear that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what aviation development will look like. He made it clear that it will impair accessibility from the rest of the country. There was also great uncertainty about socially important flights and business flights. In fact, I would say that this investigation contains more question marks than answers for those who protect aviation. The fact that the government, despite the announcement, chose to send the investigation for a referral, we find moderates remarkable. It seems that the government has no respect whatsoever for the majority that exists here in Parliament with regard to Bromma airport. This action resulted in us clearly showing from here in this House that we lack confidence in the government's dealings with this issue. There was another announcement. My supplementary question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: Does the Minister for Infrastructure think that the government has respected democracy and the majority here in Parliament in its actions?
i-84127737242618d4-996	Mr President, I would like to I can admit that was a short answer to a long story. I think that both Maria Stockhaus and I could give a longer lecture on the history of Bromma, Arlanda and Swedish domestic aviation. Let me make it clear that it is important to protect aviation. The flight is needed, but the flight also needs to be changed. It may not be quite clear to those who listen to the debate and hear Mr Stockhaus' statements, but the fact is that we have invested an incredible amount of money in aviation, not least during the pandemic. We have gone in with additional state resources to regional airports and state airports. We have set up something as unique as a public service obligation. When commercial flights were shut down and failed to travel during the pandemic, we went in with government money to secure flights from Gotland to the mainland and flights from Norrland.
i-84127737242618d4-1000	At the same time, we have given research money and development money for the development of electric aircraft. Heart Aerospace seems to have come a long way towards electrifying aviation. Of course, we are also beginning to introduce biofuels for aviation so that the aircraft can switch. That is why, speaking of the Chicago Convention, I have been pushing the issue of changing the taxation of fossil aviation fuel and getting a lot of attention for it. In this way we can have the same steering instruments as we have in the case of vehicle fuels. Today it is forbidden to tax fossil aviation fuel. An increasing number of airlines are now taking responsibility, not least in Sweden. The tanks biofuels, synthetic fuel, kerosene or the like. If we could tax fossil aviation fuel, that would be a good driver for resetting the aircraft. I am basically a tech optimist, and I think that this government has invested a lot in aviation at a difficult time. However, this is also a time when you should be careful about making major structural changes without having your feet on. That was the background to the Bromma investigation. I can share Maria Stockhaus' view that the investigation created many questions. I think that earlier in the debate I have heard in general that it is just to close down Bromma, but it is not. There needs to be extensive land remediation, with consequences for ambulance flights, police operations and other activities and other actors present there. Magnus Persson's investigation, for which the consultation period is almost over, showed with the solid evidence that is now available that there are quite a few things that must then be handled. Because Moderate leader Ulf Kristersson recently opened up both for an investment in Arlanda and for a change where domestic aviation could move from Bromma to Arlanda– that's how I interpreted him– I have been clear about the Government's ambition to set up an investigation about Arlanda and how we should secure the capacity there. This is something that both the Moderates and many others from the Riksdag have called for. I am very keen to listen to the Riksdag. I myself have been a Member of Parliament since 1994 and think it is very important to follow Parliament's intentions in this regard. Therefore, we are now preparing the directives to look at how Arlanda's capacity can be secured and how domestic aviation can be accommodated there, with good castle times and with good opportunities for flights from all over the country. At the same time, we will see if it is possible to do what is necessary to secure Arlanda's future in the long term and have a basis that is able to recruit for international direct connections. I hope that we will be able to have good discussions across party boundaries on the structure of aviation, not least at Arlanda and Bromma. I am happy to continue to have a good dialogue on this, not least with the Moderates.
i-84127737242618d4-1008	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Infrastructure says fine words about respecting Parliament, but I may think that this is not worth much when it comes to dealing with Bromma and how it has handled the clear signals that have come from this House about how a majority here sees the future of Bromma airport. I got caught up in what the Minister of Infrastructure said about not making major structural changes without a solid basis. I do not know whether the Minister for Infrastructure seriously believes that this Bromma investigation would in some way be a solid basis, given the extremely short time the investigator had and the extremely governing directives for the investigation. The question was not whether Bromma should be closed down but how Bromma could be closed down. In addition, the investigator highlighted an extremely large number of issues that we are not close to having a solution to. Nor can we find a solution to them until we see where the flight goes when the pandemic rings. Mr President, I would like to I also reacted when the Minister for Infrastructure, like many other times, said that the flight needs to be changed. Instead, I would say that the flight is changing. To keep returning to the fact that flights need to change, I think there is a certain degree of deafness when it comes to what is actually happening in the industry. The industry needs to be told that we see that it is changing and not constantly being pointed out that it needs to be changed. I think it is absolutely amazing things that are happening in aviation when it comes to technology development and the level of ambition that airlines and airports have when it comes to creating a fossil-free aviation market in Sweden. We in Sweden could certainly be an example, but this presupposes that there is good infrastructure for aviation. First, electric Elflyg will be considerably smaller, and there will probably be more air movements. It is not possible to combine large and small flights without proper margins, which is an extremely complex situation. The fact that everything is gathered at Arlanda could mean that the development of electric flights is hindered, because they will not fit. Mr President, I would like to I would like to come back to the question of how the Minister for Infrastructure interpreted the interview with my party leader in Today's Industry. The fact that, given that the Green Party is no longer part of the government, we see an opportunity to come forward is about securing Arlanda's development, including the issue of a new runway. There, the Minister for Infrastructure has been more hesitant, but we think this is an extremely important component. Swedavia's CEO really wants to see a long-term agreement regarding Arlanda's development. This applies both to the airport itself and to the infrastructure to and from the airport. There is an excellent report from the Arlanda Council that the Minister for Infrastructure chose to put in some drawer somewhere and has not seen the light of day. It could be taken on board and taken as a starting point. There will be no discussion of Bromma's future until there is an enormous amount of agreements in place in relation to Arlanda. The year 2038 is not so far away; I am thinking of environmental permits and other things for the development of Arlanda Airport. The question is what the aviation market looks like then. I think that you should take a proper thought before taking off such an important part of Swedish aviation infrastructure as a city-by-city airport in the capital.
i-84127737242618d4-1017	Mr President, I would like to I have no worries about saying that the flight is changing instead of saying that it needs to change. I am proud and happy about how aviation actors in Sweden act and how within the framework of Fossil-free Sweden – the government's catalyst in getting the industry to develop – have taken on the challenge, wanted to develop and taken several initiatives. I think that's good. But I also work in international contexts. Not long ago, I was in Glasgow, at COP 26, negotiating and meeting transport ministers from all over the world. I would like to point out that there is still a journey to be made before there is a consensus in the world that aircraft should even change. We succeeded anyway – from the fact that Sweden had previously been alone in demanding changes, it was now almost 22 countries that made a declaration about the flight. 22 countries are good, but the world contains a great many more countries than that. Internationally – and aviation is international – there is therefore a lot more to do. But Sweden has been a driving force here, and now several other countries are following. That's good. Let me then say that Swedavia, which has to deal with both Bromma and Arlanda airports, has been clear that there are no market conditions to operate Bromma. The reason why you have turned to the government is because you stand with significant overcapacity, and it is clear that it costs to stand with a lot of overcapacity. It is an argument for investigating the conditions for the closure of Bromma, but then it should be on good basis and therefore investigation. But we also know, of course, that Arlanda is finding it increasingly difficult to cope with the competition for international direct flights. New connections are emerging more frequently from Copenhagen, Berlin and Frankfurt. I do not want Sweden, which is an export-dependent industrial country, to be dependent on going from Sweden first to Kastrup and further out into the world, without being able to go out into the world directly from Stockholm. However, for this to be possible, a better passenger base at Arlanda airport is required. By collecting domestic and international flights there, this means both that there will be better opportunities to travel within the country with rapid changes, if possible, but also that we will have a better basis for international direct connections. That is also what business is bringing forward. I can have all the respect, and I will have it, because the Moderates within their party have slightly different views, not least between the Stockholm region and the rest of the country. But I still think it is important that we all parties listen to what the Swedish export industry and business representatives say, and they say clearly: Safeguard Arlanda's competitiveness! If we gather the business at Arlanda, there is also an opportunity to introduce biofuels more easily. I think 70 – 80 percent– I will honestly admit that I'm a little unsure about the figure – of the refuelling takes place at Arlanda Airport. There is an opportunity to introduce biofuels. Let us hope that there will be electric flights in the long term, but the journey to electric flights is still quite long right now. The starting point must be to have good facts about Bromma's future but also how the capacity at Arlanda can be secured. I think that now would be the time to have real discussions on the air structure in the future. I think it would be appreciated by not least the actors in Swedish industry. We've been arguing about Bromma for 20 to 30 years. Perhaps it is time to find a constructive solution. That's what I want to work for. If we can reach a solution, it is a good thing, otherwise the matter will of course continue to be dealt with by the parliament and the government.
i-84127737242618d4-1028	Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out to the Minister for Infrastructure that the market and business aspects are two different things, and what Swedavia said in the report was that it is not commercially reasonable to keep Bromma airport. After all, no one has been able to judge the reasonableness of this, because we are not allowed to see the report. It depends on what happens to the future flight, but Swedavia invested a considerable amount of money at Bromma airport before the pandemic. This suggests that they had a future faith in Bromma airport. When it comes to business, it is not just about the business community here in Stockholm, but about the business community all over Sweden, and there are a lot of people who call for good connections to Stockholm and protect Bromma's future in order to have good accessibility to Stockholm. I share the view of the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr President, on the international taxation of aviation fuel. It is gratifying that more countries are in the same line as Sweden. For us Moderates, it is important that we tax emissions. Unfortunately, in Sweden we have a flight tax that instead taxes travellers. This combined with the government's attitude to aviation in general, according to the industry, is what primarily affects whether we get direct flights to and from Stockholm or whether airlines choose Copenhagen and Kastrup or any other airport in Europe for their direct flights. It has been a debate on this and our Swedish aviation tax, which is taken as a sign that we simply do not want flights to and from Sweden. With this, Mr President, I wish the Minister for Infrastructure a Merry Christmas and hope that the Minister for Infrastructure will have the opportunity to relax. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Mr President and other staff in this House a very happy Christmas.
i-84127737242618d4-1034	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Maria Stockhaus refers to the job we did in the process with the Arlanda Council and also the Bromma investigation that Anders Sundström conducted earlier. That was a good basis, but for those who follow the debate, I think it is appropriate to ask what has happened since then. Even before the pandemic, we had a debate on air cams. Very many people in Sweden did not actually fly and chose other alternatives, because they did not think that the aircraft took their climate responsibility. A lot has happened there. Not least in Sweden, aviation operators have finally turned around and are making great efforts to reset. Then came a pandemic that – if the quote from Trafikverket's report is correct – meant that virtually all regular flights between countries ceased. I think we need to be aware that we have had a situation in which aircraft were basically completely stationary. It is clear that it creates completely different conditions, not only for airlines but also for airports and for Swedish aviation infrastructure. That is why we have had to go in and make a huge effort. But that means that it still takes a long time before the flight will recover, if ever. Ericsson's CEO has said that they will reduce their travel by about 50 percent because they will work digitally instead. We are not going over the day to Brussels, Frankfurt or Munich, but we are having digital conferences. That is why I think everyone realises that we are facing a situation in which business aviation is likely to fall significantly in volume, and IATA says that, and that is what all aviation assessors say. Then we need to consider whether it is smart to maintain double capacity in the Stockholm region with the costs it will have in terms of airport charges for airlines. There will be such an expensive fee for aviation operators as well. I think it's rational and smart for flights to gather at Arlanda. But I will of course have a good dialogue, I hope, with parties in Parliament on how we can jointly find an agreement on the structure of aviation in the future. I also wish Maria Stockhaus a really merry Christmas and a nice holiday.
i-84127737242618d4-1040	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked me if I and the government intend to instruct the Swedish Transport Administration to continue working on alco-boms in our ports. Road safety is a priority for the government, and the Swedish Transport Administration has since 2017 been tasked with establishing facilities for sobriety control in some ports. Within the framework of the mission, two types of control facilities have been developed, one whereby the port in question carries out checks on authorised traffic entering the port area and one based on an authority carrying out sobriety checks on road users arriving on the ferry. In a number of ways, the Coronapendemin has made it difficult to establish and use facilities. A large part of the discussions between the Finnish Transport Agency and the ports on the development and planning of sobriety control facilities have unfortunately been paused during the pandemic. As soon as the contamination situation permits, I expect the sobriety control facilities at Swedish ports that are now established to be properly used. It is important that efforts to improve road safety continue and develop, not least in the area of sobriety checks in traffic.
i-84127737242618d4-1044	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Drunk driving is probably one of the worst problems in road traffic. Drunk driving risks killing and hurting people who are completely innocent. The problem is even greater when it comes to drivers in heavy-duty vehicles who drive affected. It was an accident just a few days ago that resulted in death. A driver in a heavy vehicle drove off the road and squeezed a passenger car under him when the vehicle went down. The truck had previously touched another vehicle on the road that had turned, followed and called the police. But the police never arrived until the accident was a fact, and there was a death in the passenger car that was hit — a completely unnecessary death. An innocent person was killed because a driver could not stay away from alcohol. This is a concern, and it's increasing. It's not just about alcohol, it's about drugs. On three occasions this year, Customs has warned that more and more drug-affected drivers are entering Sweden. As you know, drugs and alcohol are not related to driving, but the trend is increasing, according to customs. However, there is not enough capacity to stop these drivers. The fact that the pandemic has made the expansion of the facilities more difficult, I fully understand. But we must try to find a solution so that it still works, because no matter how it is, people die in traffic, whether it is a pandemic or not. We need to start a business to get rid of drivers who are affected by alcohol or drugs. These drivers are a threat to road safety and risk human lives. One reason why we have this situation is that we do not control heavy traffic. We have got drivers into the country who live several months in the cabin, and in this kind of misery, because that's what we're talking about, it's easy to resort to drugs and alcohol. Customs points out that drivers have long driving times ahead of them, first up in the country to unload and then unload and drive out again. The only chance to do this is to use drugs. This is the result of the fact that we in Sweden have not been awake and neither increased customs capacity nor the number of controls on the road. It has created a situation where drivers who should not be behind the steering wheel are driving. The last victim died on December 12 at the E45 outside Grums. Unfortunately, we will see more of this if we do not take steps to get this type of driver off the road. Here the government has been far too slow to take action.
i-84127737242618d4-1055	Mr President, I would like to Let me start where Thomas Morell left off. It is, of course, this government that has taken hold of the disorder that we have had in professional traffic. When the Moderates ruled, and Thomas Morell himself has a background as moderate politicians, they chose not to regulate professional traffic. Free shipping, low costs, open competition and free movement were thought to be the most important thing, and we saw the result: a development in which Eastern European hauliers with dumped wages and poor social conditions were able to deliver free transport at low costs in Europe's countries with a social misery as a consequence, but also with violations of driving and rest rules and terrible living conditions for drivers. Since the Social Democrats and the Green Party formed a government, we and many others have systematically worked to change this, with efforts in the form of squeezing, fines, ordering responsibility and increased police controls on cabotage traffic. Through successful negotiations in both the Council and Parliament in Brussels, we have also received a mobility package on the ground. In fact, today the government has decided on the bulk of the regulations to come into force in the spring of this particular package. The drivers and vehicles we are talking about, which are mostly from Eastern Europe, are now to return after three weeks in order not to permanently drive what becomes an illegal cabotage traffic in Sweden. There will also be stricter requirements for tachographs than in the past. Now we will implement this whole work, i.e. the so-called mobility package, which is important. The industry in Sweden also takes a big responsibility. Sweden's haulage companies have worked together with the transport companies in the Fair Transport 2.0 where they urge: Use Swedish haulage companies instead that have good conditions, collective agreements and safe cars and take climate responsibility! I have often addressed this call to transport buyers, because those who buy transport take on a great deal of responsibility when they buy the cheapest possible transport and do not ensure the quality of transport. That is why we now have a customer responsibility. I very much share Thomas Morell's outrage at drunk driving, and I am pleased that the government has just presented a Council of Law resolution on stricter penalties for illegal driving and drunk driving offences. This is partly about raising the maximum sentence for serious illegal driving and driving from six months in prison to one year in prison, and for serious drunk driving from two years in prison to three years in prison. It is also a new qualification basis for serious drink-driving, in which seriousness must be taken into account if the offender has previously committed a drink-driving offence. So, if you're a repeat offender, the punishment will be tougher. Speaking of the fact that it is not just alcohol, on my initiative we have investigated and referred a proposal that will give the police the opportunity to produce screening tests for drugs, i.e. to investigate whether drivers are affected by drugs. We have systematically worked with everything from alcoboms to more controls and, not least, more stringent legislation. I am proud of the solid work, and the police and other authorities are making important contributions here. It is worrying that some of this has stopped during the pandemic, but that is something that has to be understood in terms of health and safety at work. Let us hope, however, that the work will be given new impetus after the pandemic, because it is needed to bring order to the Swedish roads.
i-84127737242618d4-1065	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is good that the government decides to squeeze both those who drive drunk and those who drive illegally in Sweden. However, it requires one thing that you have not yet decided: we must get officials on the road. It doesn't matter how much legislation you stack on each other if no one can enforce it. This cannot be solved with an ATK camera at the edge of the road, but the vehicle must be stopped. You have to go inside and see what you have to deal with. Is the driver sober? Does the vehicle have permission to be in Sweden? What's all this stuff on? Is the goods dangerous? How much does it weigh? Is it loadproof? What about driving and resting times? Is the tachograph manipulated? There are so many questions that need to be answered in connection with vehicle stops, and then there must be qualified staff out there doing this job. As long as this piece is not solved, it does not matter how much legislation you produce. There's got to be someone who's gonna do it. Speaking of alcohol on the road, I was 12 years old at the traffic police in Skövde, which later became Skara. During those twelve years, we took three drivers in heavy vehicles affected by alcohol. That's pretty much what you take this week now. My old colleagues were alerted on E6 at Stenungsund where a heavy vehicle circled on the road. They went after the car and stopped it, and when they opened the cab door the driver fell out because the support he leaned against disappeared. It was not possible to talk to him, and it was not because he fell in the way but because he was so drunk. He had to lie in a drunk cell and sober up before interrogation was possible, and then he was convinced that he was in Belgium. This is what we're talking about. They're out there on the road, risking human lives. Then we need to deploy resources to remove them. When customs three times in a year warns of an increase in affected drivers, it is not good to wait to hire people who do the job. It is well and good that the legislation is tightened up; I think it is great. Drunk drivers must be punished. But there must be someone who discovers them, otherwise there is no point in tightening the penalties.
i-84127737242618d4-1073	Mr President, I would like to It may be appropriate to remind Thomas Morell that there are more traffic policemen and more car inspectors on site and that the number of police employees has increased. As I said before, we have earmarked resources for the police specifically for cabotage controls, and we have an investigation which has been referred to us on the subject of a professional traffic inspection, precisely in order to get more checks on the road and better control of professional traffic. Mr President, I would like to Member Morell's challenge and concern is that his own commitment will stand out on the day that the Swedish Democrats, who now support Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister candidate, would happen to take power. There is nothing to suggest that a moderate government will do anything about what we are talking about here. On the contrary, the Moderates have, for a long time, been opposed to all efforts to demand the fairest conditions in professional traffic, to ensure that we have complaints, fines and ordering liability. It is a question of imposing on transport buyers, that is to say, on the business community that they should not buy the cheapest transport but should ensure that it is transport that meets certain requirements and criteria. This is not least where Mr Morell's great dilemma lies. He argues that we should have a different political order in Sweden. Then one can imagine that in order to ensure that the voters should not feel cheated by Thomas Morell one might know that the Swedish Democrats are demanding the Moderates that there should be such a policy. I have asked repeatedly: Have the Swedish Democrats made any demands on the Moderates to meet the requirements of professional traffic? It is about getting a professional traffic inspection, more police checks on the road and keeping the penalties which are now Europe's highest. So far, I haven't been told. I haven't seen a single list. It would be interesting if, for once, Thomas Morell could give us some information. Will you make any demands? Have you received any promises? Or does a vote on Thomas Morell become a vote on a moderate policy which means that nothing will be done in the field of professional transport? That is the question we will have during the election year. Now we are in a position where, after systematic work for several years by the government, we have rooted a mobility package in port. We have put in place fines, ordering liability, squeezing and cabotage controls. We have got international European legislative work in place. We have demands for drivers to return after three weeks and smart tachographs. We have Europe's highest fines. I hope that we can now complete the work on a professional traffic inspection. It's a complicated matter. You have to respect that. It's a solid effort. It had not happened as any other party had led the government. I look forward to having many and long discussions on this. However, I note that the major concern of the Swedish Democrats in this respect is that they intend to support parties that do not have such an interest.
i-84127737242618d4-1081	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I must say that the Government has an impressive short memory. I don't think I've ever met anyone who remembers so little of what has happened in this House. I have repeatedly explained that as long as I stand up, I will pursue these issues. No one will doubt that I will move these issues forward until we have a solution. If it is then Ulf Kristersson or someone else who is Prime Minister is not interesting. I'll work with them until it's a solution. Then the question is: how many police officers and car inspectors are there? When I left traffic police, we had three lucky teams with nine men in each of them working in external service. Today, there are five in total. If you look at how many traffic policemen there are in Sweden that have access to heavy vehicles, we spin somewhere around 120 people. The others are on light traffic. They hunt with lasers, pilots and things like that. If we are talking about the competence of heavy traffic, we are somewhere at 120, and we have 70 car inspectors. According to the Control Directive, they will be able to control the large road network every day of the day and every day of the year. That math doesn't make sense. You've been sitting there rolling your thumbs. Cops retire and others stop. The car inspectors are at a decent level. The number is 70 - 73 and has been doing so for many years. You haven't done what you should have done here. It's time to do something now.
i-84127737242618d4-1086	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would like to say to Mr Morell that I have a very good memory. I remember that just like the last time I asked these questions, Thomas Morell answered that he himself will certainly argue. But he did not answer a single demand of the Moderates. I imagine what we have heard from the Swedish Democrats is: we will be making demands on those who will have our support for the formation of a government. But obviously there is not a single requirement for what is Thomas Morell's favorite area. That's not that important. Obviously it is immigration policy and other things that are the most important issues for the Swedish Democrats. But to make some serious demands on the Moderates on professional transport, on transport policy, on the working conditions of lorry drivers, on increased control of traffic police, I have not yet heard anything about. I have a very good memory of that from the last time, and I got it confirmed again this time.
i-84127737242618d4-1089	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to increase security at the country's airports. The disruption of socially important infrastructure is unacceptable. The fact that aviation must reduce its climate impact can never justify endangering other people. The Swedish Transport Agency has received incident reports from all airports concerned and analysed them. Some activists have had a valid ticket and passed security clearance without notice, and then deviate on their way out to the plane or refuse to obey the captain's orders well on the plane. Others have illegally entered the airport. In these cases, airports have detected the intrusion, had people under guard and called security guards and police. The Swedish Transport Agency's evaluation shows that airports acted correctly and followed the procedures for such events. The Swedish Transport Agency has also informed airports to be extra vigilant when major events are organised, as this may lead to certain activities being carried out. This time, as is well known, the actions took place prior to the COP 26 climate summit. After the events, the Swedish Transport Agency held a meeting on aviation security, where the issue was discussed with representatives from Swedavia AB, Svenska Regional Airports, the Swedish Police Authority and SAS AB. The relevant government authorities and companies then gathered on 23 November in a broader group to continue their work. Some measures have already been taken. In addition to regulatory frameworks and measures at airports themselves, it is important that the flow of information between stakeholders works well, so that preventive measures can be taken when there is public information or notification that something can happen. I very much welcome the fact that the relevant authorities, together with the industry, are continuing to discuss what further can be done to both prevent sabotage of socially important infrastructure and to effectively eliminate interference once they have occurred. I will follow that work closely.
i-84127737242618d4-1095	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. What happened at a number of airports around the country was astounding. It's amazing in a number of ways. Anyone who realises what the danger is when a flying machine comes in for landing and the risks of running out on the runway would never come up with the idea of doing so regardless of whether you have an ideological idea of it all. Now I don't know what kind of machine was coming in for landing on Bromma. But they fly a lot with ATR 72. They are somewhere at 20 - 23 tons in weight. If the pilot is forced to make some maneuver in connection with the landing, everyone will realize what it can mean for those on the plane. At least what happened made me react extremely strongly. You put so many people in great danger. The landing speed is just over 200 kilometers per hour. If things go wrong just in the final phase, the accident could be a complete disaster with many deaths. According to the newspaper, it was Expressen's photographer who had seen activists running out and glued themselves to the runway while the police operation was going on. Then there were policemen inside the building itself. Officers with sirens and blue lights drove out onto the runway to stop them. The Authority used several bolt cutters to cut off the activists from the runway. Let's assume that you were in chains or something on the runway itself, so that it wasn't fingers that were cut off. Here we see how an ideological short-circuit – because I would say it is – puts other people in danger. How has it been like this? We remember that a few years ago it was an activist who refused to sit down in a flying machine, which caused it to be delayed quite a long time. Eventually the activist got from the aircraft machine, and then there was a judgment for this in the Gothenburg District Court. The District Court says that a person who does not obey the captain of an aircraft commits a crime called a violation of the Air Transport Act, and the activist was fined SEK 3,000. You might think that's a good thing. This judgment was appealed, and eventually there was a judgment in the Court of Appeal to 60 daily fines, a total of SEK 4 200. We can put that money in relation to the danger that other people were exposed to and also the delay that many suffered. Now 60 day fines are a pretty harsh punishment, for she had no income to talk about. It is a sign that the crime is serious. Nevertheless, it is a bit distorted with the small money for the big concerns that were created partly for the airline, partly for many people who were delayed to other flights and then got higher costs that they themselves were not guilty of. Here, one should probably see from the government what one can do to tighten the penalties for dealing with this type of activists. It must be felt when putting other people's health and life at risk. You can't run out on a runway in the final phase when a machine is about to land. The disaster can be complete in such a situation.
i-84127737242618d4-1105	Mr President, I would like to I share the outrage. There are several legal spaces that can be taken into account. Thomas Morell refers to violations of the Aviation Act, but let me say, in order for everyone to understand the seriousness of this, that there is also legislation dealing with airport sabotage. It is the use, for example, of serious violence or threat of such violence against someone who is at an airport open to international traffic, the destruction or serious harm of an airport device or used for the operation of the airport or an aircraft that is not in operation but is set up at the airport, or the destruction of activities carried out at such an airport by the use of force or threat of violence. Then you can be sentenced, if the act is designed to create a danger to the operation of the airport, for airport sabotage to prison for a maximum of 4 years. If the offence is considered serious, you can be sentenced to imprisonment for a minimum of 2 years and a maximum of 18 years or for a lifetime. Let me be clear that we still have room for law in this, but of course it is the courts, the prosecutors and the judiciary that decide which legal framework is to be applied. I want to be clear about that. But, as far as airport sabotage is concerned, it is, as I see it, very severe punishment. And that's for the intended reason. This is extremely dangerous to others. I want to be able to travel safely when I fly. I want to know that safety works, and it does in Swedish aviation. There is an incredibly strong safety thinking in both Swedish and international flights. That is why it is so strictly regulated how operations are to operate at airports. Therefore, sabotage of airports is also very serious. I think it was good that there was rapid and resolute action by the authorities on the ground. It is very important that the authorities now continue this work. I have also learned that the follow-up to this event will be continued to see if there is more to be done, not least to prevent this type of crime. A little depending on the legal framework – if it is a violation of the Aviation Act, undue access to protective objects or air traffic sabotage, or if it is actually airport sabotage – it is very clear punitive scales, precisely because we are anxious to indicate that this is not acceptable. If you want comments on the climate impact of aviation, there is an entire parliament. There are policies to be pursued. There is opinion formation in free media. There is every opportunity for such discussions. But acting like the people here did is reprehensible. That is also why there is a clear legal framework for how it should be handled in that case. But, as I said, it is not the government's job. That is not the job of the Members of Parliament either. It is our courts, prosecutors and police that have the task of deciding how to prosecute people and what crimes can then be considered.
i-84127737242618d4-1111	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. No, let's not get involved in the legal proceedings. But we can make laws that are strict. There are several dimensions to this. Of course, people were in danger right there and then, directly, in connection with the aircraft that was about to land. But what happened at Bromma was that the traffic was shut down for an hour. The airport was closed. It hung flying machines in the air that had to wait before they got down. On Bromma – this was discussed in another interpellation debate earlier – there are also other activities in the form of ambulance flights. If an airport is closed down so that ambulance flights also have problems with both taking off and landing, it is dangerous for life and health for those in need of this transport. So there are additional dimensions to the behaviour of these people – in pure egotism, I would say. It is said to be doing this for the sake of the climate. As the Government says, there are other arenas to work on if you want to achieve a goal. You should not put other people at risk or risk their health to any ideological cobbler. That's what we're talking about here. The flight has a high level of security. I'm following the flight very closely. I watch the Haveri Commission a lot. The next season begins on January 3rd. It is interesting to see how it works to constantly improve aviation safety. There is no mode of transport that is as safe as the flight. But this is put out of play when people come into a system that is very regulated, very stable and very safe and puts everything on end. Here we must think for a moment about how to increase safety further. I know that Swedish airports have high security and work a lot with security, but one might have to think one more step. These actors went in via security control and did everything right from the beginning, but all of a sudden it turned and they refused to sit down and follow the instructions of the staff. Then there will be a disturbance in flight operations that is difficult to access. Here you have to think for a moment about how to solve this. I hope that the government, together with the Swedish Transport Agency and other responsible authorities, will now sit down and think about how to ensure that this cannot be repeated again. This was a joint attack at several airports at the same time. I think there were 14 people arrested by the police to prosecute afterwards. It was Gothenburg, Stockholm– Arlanda and Bromma– and so it was well Växjö, I think, the Government's home village, and Halmstad whose airports were hit by the activists that day.
i-JnSiW1RbmUhSSDHU9qmnNd	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it was Arlanda, Landvetter, Bromma, Kalmar, Växjö, Halmstad, Ängelholm and Sturup in Malmö. First, let me take the principle. It is sometimes said that Loyola of Loyola – perhaps the President's favourite, I do not know – coined the term That is certainly not true. The expression has been used very often, but that is not the case. The end cannot justify the means. If you want comments on the climate impact of aviation, however legitimate it is, you cannot use any means. Then you have to comply with the principles of democracy. Then you have to stick to opinion formation, to influence political decision-makers, to act politically and become politically active – but not in this way. I think that a clear indication of how the government, the state and the judiciary view this type of action is that, for example, the penalty for airport sabotage can be up to life imprisonment. Because it is serious, with the consequences that it could have. However, I would like to be careful to say that it is not the government, not I, as a minister, nor the parliament that decides the offence or how the police and the judiciary with prosecutors should now act. It's up to the justice system itself. But the legislator and the government are clear that these are serious crimes. I think it is important that the authorities follow it up. I will follow it as a minister. Although some are in the Ministry of Justice's area, police operations and surveillance, some of the regulations are also in the Ministry of Infrastructure with regard to airport operations. If there are more things to do– there is for sure– of course I think that you should do it. It's so serious. Then it is sad that the actions of a few people can lead to us, as ordinary travellers, being forced to undergo even more stringent security checks and even stricter rules at boarding or when leaving the airport, precisely because some have taken the liberty of using the possibility of disrupting the order at, for example, an airport. It is therefore extremely serious. The authorities are working on follow-up. There is a regulatory framework to follow, and there are clear signals from society that it is very serious efforts. There are also clear penalties, if it is the case that the police judge that it is crimes that have been committed.
i-84127737242618d4-1126	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. We do not differ when it comes to the notion of how crazy this was. But it needs to be followed up; if the legislation is not strong enough, it really needs to be tightened up. The aviation industry in particular does not need a great deal to have serious consequences. It is simply because the aircraft move so fast at both take-off and landing that if something happens, the disaster will be complete. There is every reason to follow up what happened at airports and what the consequences were for those who took the liberty of endangering other people. If it is the case that the measures are not tough enough, consideration must be given to tightening the penalties. It cannot be acceptable to put other people in such danger, as actually happened. It is also a little strange that aircraft were forced to hang in the air for an extra hour, precisely in terms of reducing the climate impact. That's where you thought a little crazy.
i-84127737242618d4-1130	Mr President, I would like to I think there is nothing more to add than that, of course, we will follow up on this. I agree with the view. I assume the authorities will do their utmost to prosecute. Should the government be asked to make more efforts, I will certainly be prepared to do so.
i-84127737242618d4-1132	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked me a number of questions about fines and vehicle flogging. The government is determined that there should be order on the roads and has therefore taken a large number of measures since 2014. We have tightened up the customer responsibility, made it possible to clapp vehicles and have been the leader in getting the EU's mobility package in place. In this way, unfair competition in the transport sector can be combated. On 28 October 2021, the Government decided to increase fines for unauthorised cabotage transport, with a view to increasing compliance. The penalty fee was increased from SEK 40 000 to SEK 60 000. This means that Sweden receives among the highest penalties throughout the EU. The increase in charges, which entered into force on 1 December, is a clear signal that the government is serious about infringements of the rules on cabotage. When the government took office in 2014, there were not even opportunities for the relevant authorities to prevent continued travel by means of so-called "classification". The possibility, in order to ensure the enforcement of the penalty fee for unauthorised cabotage operations, was introduced only in 2015 following the initiative of the Social Democratic-led government. Since then, the rules have been further tightened up to the current regulatory framework that a clap can last up to 36 hours. That it is common for drivers to wait out the 36 hours and then disappear, as Thomas Morell says, does not correspond with the figures I have received from the Swedish Transport Agency. They show that the vast majority of transport companies, over 90%, that had had their vehicle trampled in 2020 paid the penalty fee before the 36 hours had expired. However, the government will continue to closely monitor developments to ensure road order and fight crime. The government is also prepared to take further measures, if necessary, to reduce illegal transport on our roads.
i-84127737242618d4-1138	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. This is an issue that we have discussed several times. What, then, is cabotage? Cabotage traffic is a temporary domestic transport in a host country. It is possible to make three shipments for seven days and then return out again. Since those rules came into being, this has been a wise thing. It has built up a business in Sweden where those who are lying and driving illegally, who do not comply with the regulations, have built up mobile filling stations, mobile workshops and mobile tyre workshops. They have their own tow cars that roll in Sweden. Is it necessary to do so if it is a matter of temporary domestic transport in a host country? I find that hard to believe. This has created a situation in which the actors, often governed by criminal networks, are in our transport systems and carry out transport operations. These cars bring in ammunition, firearms, explosives and young girls who are then used for prostitution. On the trip, it comes with stolen goods, worth about 2 billion annually. This is a well-known problem. Every person who works in this business knows what it is and sees it every day. It is great to raise the fine from 40 000 to 60 000. But we're just talking about coffee money in this context. The fact that it is higher than in other countries in Europe is no reason not to get involved properly. The Danes are a little braver. They took a truck with a stolen digger. The driver was given a year and a half in prison and twelve years of entry ban, following a machine theft in Denmark. One and a half years' imprisonment and twelve years' entry ban are what the Danish State offered. It is at this level that we have to lie down if we are to get to the criminal networks operating in Sweden. They're a scourge for entrepreneurs. They are a scourge for ordinary citizens. And they penetrate our logistics systems and keep track of all valuable transports. They're getting their drugs. They're picking up guns. When encryption in Encrochat was broken, it was discovered that there were ten times more narcotics in Sweden than had been thought. And how do you think that gets in? It's coming up on trucks. It's jammed in frame beams. I last saw today how it was squeezed between tiles stowed on pallets. Those involved in such activities are refined. The Swedish state must offer resistance. But you don't. You don't have enough staff out there to stop it. That is why they have built up a business where they even have their own workshops, their own tyre workshops, their own filling stations and so on. It would not be necessary if the business were temporary. Then you can go to any station or workshop. This isn't good enough. The government needs to understand what this is all about. It's great to raise the penalty fee. But go up to 250 000 or 300 000 kroner so that something happens so that we can stop it at some point.
i-84127737242618d4-1148	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say something about the fine compared to other countries. I think Thomas Morell's comparison is wrong. But Thomas Morell is welcome to present the basis for the sanction fee in Denmark. In the Netherlands, the fee is approximately EUR 4 400, i.e. SEK 45 000. In Denmark, to which Thomas Morell refers, there is a differentiated fee between DKK 5 000 and DKK 35 000. In Norway, in the event of an infringement, it may amount to up to NOK 50 000. After we have done a review, we have been able to see that Sweden with a fee of 60 000 is likely to have the absolute highest fee. We have this to mark and give a very clear signal that illegal activity is not acceptable. In addition, I think it is effective to have high fines. There's no doubt about it. In addition, we have increased the number of checks and received an increase in the number of cases that show that this has an effect. But more needs to be done. There's no doubt about it. This is also the reason why we have, on the one hand, earmarked resources for the police for cabotage controls and, on the other hand, investigated and looked at the conditions for the establishment of a professional traffic inspection. However, I cannot help repeating what Mr Morell and I have discussed several times. It is the outrage that Thomas Morell seems to have regarding the state of affairs in the transport sector and that he nevertheless concludes that it would be good to have a moderate government. He does not make a single demand in the field of transport for the Moderates to take up government office. It would be welcome if the Swedish Democrats could at some point show that it is credible for another government to implement what Thomas Morell is demanding. Very much of what has now been implemented has been supported by the Swedish democrats in retrospect, for example, complaints, fines, ordering responsibility, more resources for the police and increased controls on the way. These are things that the Social Democratic-led government has done. We've been in the lead. The Swedish democrats have followed. But the effect of a change of government would be to have a moderate government that has shown no interest in this. Then we are back: if we want more things to happen, a continued social democratic-led government is the best guarantor of that. We will continue to fight crime on the roads. I am very pleased with the cooperation I have with Sweden's Åkeri companies, the Transport Companies and the Transport Workers' Association. This applies both to the work on Fair transport, which in itself is important, and to the opinion formation and requirements of Swedish transport buyers. They are really the ones who decide which business we should reward. I think this is an important discussion. We often talk about police action and control facilities. Here we are tightening things up and making a great deal of effort. However, the Swedish companies that order transport take on a very large responsibility if they do not control which business they reward. This is important. I don't think any of us want to end up in a 60-ton truck situation when we drive our children to football practice or visit someone during the Christmas break. We do not want to have a tired driver who does not comply with driving and rest times, who has poor working conditions or who may even be under the influence of alcohol, but we want to travel safely and safely. So this is not just a question of professional drivers, it is also a question of our road safety. There we in the government have made a great deal of effort. It remains for the Swedish Democrats to show how they want to act in the future.
i-84127737242618d4-1159	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have said this before: please go out and meet my old colleagues and discuss the situation on the road. I don't necessarily have to come because I have contact with them almost daily. They live in a world different from that described here by the Government. They have far too little resources to get to the crime out on the road. The companies that use these transports sponsor criminal activities. In one of them they have even been so fabulously rude that they have contacted the Swedish Transport Agency and want their own account there in order to be able to deposit money that the Swedish Transport Agency can then pick out fines from when it becomes wrong. Is the penalty charge at a sufficient level then? I'll get back to that. As long as I stand, I will pursue this issue. I can tell you I won't fold an inch. But I will not negotiate with the Moderates through the Government, but I will do so directly. As far as ordering responsibility is concerned, the Government is happy to tell you how the two cases went. Were there convictions? Of course, the ordering responsibility was tightened up, but it was not good enough for it to be legal. Two cases were tried in court, but both were cleared. So much was the customer responsibility worth. We have a huge problem with illegal activity on the roads, and we do not have the resources to stop it. They create economic conditions that they can then use to invest in other criminal activities. This is described in a police report from 2012. It was written by the then county detective in Västra Götaland. Three good lieutenants were behind it. It shows that illegal activities create economic conditions for other criminal activities, and those who buy these transports sponsor the criminal activities. Where do all the guns come from? How did they get into Sweden? Where does all the ammo come from? How did it get into Sweden? Where do the explosives come from? How did they get into Sweden? When the police strike prostitution, they step into an area and take a sex buyer every 20 minutes. Where do all the girls come from? They come smuggled in heavy vehicles. I'm still an instructor in YKB. We are trying to get our Swedish drivers to understand how dangerous cross-border transport is and what comes in with these vehicles. We do it to make them understand how dangerous the environment is. But the government doesn't know what's going on. You say that you talk to Sweden's Åkeri companies and the Transport companies, but why do you not understand what is happening? That's the question. The police are getting less and less resources for the road. You train cops. Fine. But they won't get out on the road. We therefore still have problems with the crime on the roads. It's time to act and not just talk.
i-84127737242618d4-1167	Mr President, I would like to I note that we are acting and that the Swedish Democrats are only talking. We are in a position of government and have carried out complaints, which did not exist before. We have Europe's highest fines, ordering responsibility and earmarked resources for cabotage controls. We have negotiated a mobility package. We are now investigating a traffic inspection. The list of things we've done is long. Nothing had been done when the Moderates were in government. Thomas Morell himself is an old Moderate politician, Mr President, and should still be in good enough contact with the Moderates to negotiate a few successes. I have every respect that the Swedish Democrats do not want to negotiate through a Social Democratic Minister. I can understand that. However, if such negotiations are ongoing, they seem to have so far been completely ineffective. Although I have been calling for it for a very long time, I have not yet seen a single example of a demand that the Swedish Democrats have made in their negotiations with the Moderates. I think it is important and wish that we had a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament about efforts to stop this activity. We need order in professional traffic. We need to ensure that Swedish haulage companies have fair competition and do not compete with bad wages, poor social conditions or bad vehicles. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that I myself made sure that there was a requirement for winter tyres also for foreign trucks when they drive on Swedish roads. It was a way of increasing road safety, which was of course the most important thing. But we also needed to be clear that we could not have a system where foreign trucks do not take on the requirements that Swedish hauliers almost exclusively make when they ensure that the vehicles have the correct tyres for winter roads. This is how we have systematically evened out the conditions, and here the mobility package is perhaps the most important. It is the success of the negotiations that we have had in Europe, both in Parliament and, of course, in the negotiations that I took part in the Council. Now we have it in place. Today, the government decided on the regulations in the mobility package. The implementation of a solid piece of legislation is now under way. It will take time before we see the effects of this; there will be improvements and changes gradually. But the drivers will return every three weeks. We're gonna have smart tachographs. It shall be secondment from day one, so that Swedish salaries and conditions shall apply from day one when driving. Again, for those who follow the debate and do not really understand why there is opposition from the right parties: together with the trade union movement, we have therefore felt that it is reasonable and important that it should be precisely Swedish salaries, agreements and conditions that should apply, i.e. posting from day one. Here it has been for a long time that parties on the right have felt that it is perfectly okay to run with dumped wages – with Polish, Romanian or Lithuanian salaries. Let's say no. It should be posting from day one, which will apply now that we implement the mobility package. Unfortunately, the party friends of the Swedish Democrats in Europe, Law and Justice in Poland, have now intervened. Polish and Hungarian companies have tried to stop this whole effort through the European Court of Justice. Sweden has intervened and intervened, i.e. joined forces with other Member States to support the European Court of Justice in this. I hope that the party friends of the Swedish Democrats in Europe do not stop this important mobility package, but the question now lies with the European Court of Justice. I find it embarrassing that we have parties in Europe that so actively want to oppose the fundamental rights of commercial road users throughout the European Union.
i-84127737242618d4-1175	Mr President, I would like to It got a little interesting there at the end. The Government says that it is embarrassing that we have parties out in Europe who do not want to ensure that the legislation reaches those who are driving illegally. Then I think we should have a discussion with the 22 members of the Socialist Group who do not want this to happen. You can start there. Then we have another history description as well– who started the job of getting the mobility package in place at all? It was Peter Lundgren. It was our Member down in the European Parliament. So it's time to do some reading. Now I'm going to quote a newspaper editor who's written the leader of the month. He writes, "Eneroth." When is it going to be "order and order"? Is it now time to stop talking gibberish and instead show some real action? This is the beginning of the leader. Then he goes in and describes how the customer responsibility went. It went in the ditch; it didn't hold all the way to a conviction. Here's the thing on point after point: There's a lot of talk, but nothing ever comes out of it. Every time we have a debate, Mr Eneroth brings up the matter of ordering responsibility, but it was not legal. So I do not understand why it is constantly being referred to. It's gonna be a little comical. When it comes to winter tyre requirements, just go out on the E4 and see what it looks like. They don't even make it on smooth roads. And then we come back to the fact that there is no one out on the road who can do the control and prosecute. There the government has completely lost control. After all, it does not matter to investigate a traffic inspection when people do not get out on the road. That's where you have to start.
i-84127737242618d4-1180	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like Mr Morell is very frustrated with the police, which I believe is his former employer. We must respect that, but it is also possible to intervene the minister responsible for police activities. I note that we have earmarked resources to the police for more cabotage controls. We, the government, have provided more resources than the police themselves have requested in order to increase the number of police employees. We have also investigated and are now looking at what the structure of a traffic inspection could look like, precisely in order to have more checks. It is under a Social Democratic-led government that it happens. Furthermore, in the European Parliament, Jens Nilsson – peace over his memory – was responsible for starting work on the mobility package. Jens did an amazing job there. Only a few weeks ago, I met Mr Ertug in the Transport Committee in Brussels. He is a driving member of the European Parliament, and he highlighted Jens Nilsson's great contribution to the mobility package we now have in place. However, it is worrying when Law and Justice, the party with which the Swedish Democrats cooperate as a sister party, so actively goes in and opposes the mobility package from the Polish side. Legal measures are now even being taken to try to stop something that is extremely important for Europe's professional drivers. I will continue to work to ensure that there is order and order in the transport sector. I will continue to have good relations and listen to wise views from the Transport Workers' Association and the trade union movement, as well as from Sweden's Åkeri companies and the Transport companies. I will also be very keen that, now that the implementation is taking place, we increase the control possibilities in what I have at my disposal. But, as I said, there is also a great deal at the disposal of other ministers, and it is Thomas Morell welcome to discuss it.
i-84127737242618d4-1185	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to set aside funds for the maintenance of the major roads in the north so that the standard can be maintained at an acceptable level and the speed limits can thus be restored. The government has systematically invested in road maintenance both in the current infrastructure plan, in the infrastructure bill presented in April and in several budgets, including earmarking money for rural roads. This means that over SEK 15 billion per year is proposed to go to the maintenance of roads in the coming years. I can say that the Swedish Transport Administration has never had so much money for road maintenance before. To strengthen accessibility and increase road safety, Trafikverket has allocated SEK 1 billion to co-finance measures on the regional road network. Priority should be given to measures that reduce travel time in rural areas, such as mid-term separation or other measures that do not reduce speed. The Finnish Transport Agency has recently announced that they have decided to wait for proposed speed reductions in 2021. The Finnish Transport Agency intends to await a decision on the forthcoming national transport infrastructure plan for the period 2022 – 2033. Road safety work remains important, and Trafikverket is working with a number of different efforts to strive for the n ollvisionen and reach the government's milestones.
i-84127737242618d4-1189	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Roads have been important to mankind ever since the day we began to move. It's been quite a few years now, and it was a horse and carriage to begin with. Eventually the car came in as an important part, and we have got rail traffic and so on. More than 60 per cent of the road network was built in the 1960s, and I am so old that I remember when my father was out with excavators on the roads and pulled out so that we got navigable roads. Today, however, we are letting that road network fail – we do not have the money to maintain what we have once invested in. What is so extremely important for our industry and for residents all over the country is decaying. This is in the infrastructure plan that was presented by Trafikverket a while ago, which is a plan ranging from 2022 to 2033. The criticism of the proposal has been massive. This increases funding for road maintenance in itself, but that is not enough by any means. The Finnish Transport Administration itself points out that the funds allocated to road maintenance are insufficient. They clearly say that the degradation of the Swedish road network will continue and in some parts increase. The risk of restrictions also increases on the high-traffic road network, so it is not only the fine road network that will take a beating in this, but also the large, important roads. Of course, the criticism did not wait, and it is justified. The government, which is responsible for the agency, prioritises a hugely expensive high-speed prestige project over a well-functioning infrastructure on the existing road and rail. The need for maintenance is great, and the resources should of course be put there rather than building a high-speed railway. We need to get what we have to work, regardless of the season and time of day. The infrastructure plan that has now been presented will knock the bones of a large part of the country's small and medium-sized enterprises. It is usually these companies that use and depend on the fine-meshed road network, which is, so to speak, out in the capillaries. I come from an agricultural community, Skaraborg. We have a lot of agriculture there, of course. There are also many small industries in rural areas that depend on a well-functioning road infrastructure for their activities. Small companies may not employ more than five or ten people and supply components for the large industry. They're legos, as they call them. They can be behind a grove somewhere, in a village that nobody knows its name and that is not even on the map, but they can have an extremely important function for our large industry. When they don't get the opportunity to operate because the road network is falling down, we cut off the branch we're sitting on. Then we will not benefit from the high-speed train anyway, because we will then have no one to produce and pay taxes in this country.
i-84127737242618d4-1199	Mr President, I would like to Let me first state that the infrastructure plan has not been presented, but the Transport Agency has made a proposal. It is the government that establishes the plan in May or in the spring. Let me also note that, in recent years, the government has repeatedly provided resources to raise road standards, not least in rural areas. It is earmarked resources, no later than SEK 1.5 billion, to strengthen road quality in rural areas. In addition, there is an investment of 10 billion for BK4 so that the forest industry and the rural industry will have a better bearing capacity on the roads for 74 tonnes of trucks. I think it is 197 billion that is now going to maintenance in the bill that Parliament has supported. Never before has so much money been spent on road and rail maintenance. But let me be clear: I see deficiencies in road maintenance and railway maintenance, and I am critical of what the Swedish National Audit Office also points out, that we have had costs of almost 60 – 70 percent in some cases. Sometimes it may not be enough just to provide more resources. We must also get more value for money, make road maintenance more efficient and ensure that not a large part of the resources allocated by the governments go to anything other than road maintenance. A cost of 60 - 70% for road maintenance is not acceptable. The Government has given clear instructions to the Finnish Transport Administration regarding cost control. Whether it is a lack of competition, planning or other reasons that make us have such expensive road maintenance efforts, something must be done to get us even more currency for the efforts we make. Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats choose to connect it with new main rails for high-speed trains. That's interesting. The directives to the Finnish Transport Agency state that 107 out of 437 billion will be allocated to continue the construction of new main roads. This is needed because it is crowded on the tracks and we need more capacity. This money goes to Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken. Since the Swedish Democrats now say so clearly that it is a stupid project, the question arises to Thomas Morell : Will the Swedish Democrats stop Gothenburg – Borås? Between Gothenburg and Borås, trains run today at speeds of perhaps 40 or 50 kilometres per hour. It is a worn-down and poorly functioning railway route. And on road 40 between Gothenburg and Borås it is full of traffic on the road. A new track between Gothenburg and Borås is needed. Are the Swedish Democrats against it? Or are the Swedish Democrats against Lund – Hässleholm? This is an important part of strengthening the capacity of the rail network, not least in southern Sweden. It's probably so important when Fehmarn Belt is built. The capacity over the Öresund Bridge will be strengthened, and then we must have better railway capacity so that it does not get crowded on the South Main Line. There is a broad consensus in Skåne behind Lund – Hässleholm, just as in West Sweden they support Gothenburg – Borås. The third part to which the resources go is Ostlänken, the railway via Linköping, Norrköping and so on. It is a strong and important regional interest, and it broadens the labour market regions. Can the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on behalf of the Swedish Democrats, tell us what is going to go away, Thomas Morell? Is that the East Link? Is it Gothenburg – Borås? Or is it Lund – Hässleholm? Because that's where you say you should take the money. You want to remove resources from new high-speed rail lines and invest in road maintenance. We invest more than ever in road maintenance, but Sweden also needs to invest in new railways.
i-7jf7dRziMuAuA3hFPKgCgp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I shall begin by reading a quote from the text contained in the infrastructure plan, which describes the situation quite clearly. The text published by the Finnish Transport Administration states: The Finnish Transport Agency will ensure that the roads are not so bad that the accessibility of light traffic is affected. ..................................................... Let's talk about the fancy road network. So it's not big E4 or E20, it's a little smaller. The Finnish Transport Agency will ensure that roads do not become so bad that accessibility to light traffic is affected. How will small industry and farmers be able to get their transport carried out if there are restrictions on the roads? It is not worthwhile to come with a Volvo 240 and a trailer and pick up a 1 700 kg bull to drive to the slaughterhouse, but it must be a heavier vehicle. This is the crux of the matter. We will not accept the removal of so much resources from existing road networks and railways that we have such problems that we cannot even cope with local transport. We want to build Gothenburg – Borås, but not a railway that is only assigned to trains that do not stop. It's pretty pointless if they're just gonna stop at Landvetter and then move on. We want the towns along the route between Gothenburg and Borås to have a regional train. This means that a somewhat lighter railway can be built than a high-speed rail. It's not more complicated than that, but you save a lot of money. That's how you have to solve the problem. Capacity is increased by expanding the main roads, but there is no need to build for 200 miles per hour. There is an essential difference between building a runway for that speed and building a runway for 250 kilometers per hour. That's where you can make the savings. It is a high-prestige project to be able to travel quickly from Stockholm to Malmö or Gothenburg. But we do have the great travel flows in the regions. It is clear, including on the railway side of the infrastructure plan, that the traffic cannot be maintained there, but will have speed reductions. But that's where we have the large numbers of people going. Just look at what it looks like on the commuter trains in Gothenburg, Stockholm or Malmö – it is full state. That is where resources need to be increased. After all, there are quite few who are going fast between Stockholm and Malmö. Just an extension between Alingsås and down to Gothenburg – another double track – would allow you to drive from Stockholm to Gothenburg by direct train in two and a half hours. You think backwards. There is so much more you can do for less money and get more bang for the money than building high-speed tracks. Make sure to get a railway system and a road system that can handle traffic, even out in the fine masquery! Then we won't have to read what's in the Trafikverket plan. There will be no more than light traffic on the fine-meshed road network and no good standards on regional railways will be maintained. The first thing to do must be to tackle the problem where it is at its greatest instead of investing money in something that only a few are going on.
i-84127737242618d4-1216	Mr President, I would like to I must say that I am puzzled by Mr Morell's argument. First of all, let me say that not only a few people want to go. Train riding has increased dramatically in Sweden. There's a huge desire for more people to go. The trains are full. And it's full of stuff. When I took the millionth train a few years ago it was to mark that there have never been so many trains on the Swedish railway. And Trafikverket says we can't fit any more. That is why we need to increase capacity and build more. Companies also want to send more goods on trains. Then we must increase capacity, otherwise it will be crowded on the roads. The roads are torn down more. That's why we need new main courses. Then I hear Thomas Morell report that instead of building the railway that the whole region has supported – the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce and others – between Gothenburg and Borås, the Swedish Democrats want to make a completely new move, do something completely different and stop this project. That's how I interpret it. To be honest, I don't think you're going to get up to 200 miles an hour on that stretch. Then it is a very clear signal to all of West Sweden that the Swedish Democrats are now, instead of spending more money on their way, stopping one of the most sought-after railway projects in Sweden. In order to overcome congestion on the 40th road and to overcome the coastal coast and its capacity shortages, new railways are needed. The problem is that I did not get an answer about Lund– Hässleholm or about Ostlänken. Is it also these projects that are now going away? This is an important message that the Swedish Democrats are now giving for the first time. There is a broad participation in the entire Region Skåne, in the whole of West Sweden and in Östergötland about Ostlänken also for that matter. If the Swedish Democrats are now so clearly opposed to this and want to stop important capacity supply of the railway then that is a clear signal. I think this is necessary. I am pleased that we from the government have spent nearly SEK 900 billion on infrastructure – more than ever – precisely to accommodate major investments on the roads. It's necessary. We need better quality roads in rural areas. I originally come from Kosta, where there are 800 inhabitants. There are no high-speed trains or major roads there. But the roads that exist need to be strengthened. After years of underinvestment, we really need to spend more money on the roads, and we do. 197 billion is more than ever for maintenance. But I am concerned about a cost increase of 60 - 70%. I want the money to be spent more effectively. I do not really remember how the Swedish Democrats have reasoned. But I know that the Moderates want to remove 30 billion and the Christian Democrats close to 50 billion from the development grant. This means that no new railways or roads should be built. If you're going to be credible in the discussion, you have to tell me what's going on. This is about Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm or Ostlänken. I got an answer here that suggests that the Swedish Democrats think Gothenburg – Borås should go but only a little. I am very curious to hear Thomas Morell report what type of railway construction should be done between Gothenburg and Borås – what speed it should be and what cost – because the Swedish democrats have a radically different view from what they have in all of western Sweden and in the region there.
i-84127737242618d4-1227	Mr President, I would like to I was a little surprised. Is the Government not aware that the project between Borås and Gothenburg is paused because Härryda has said no? It's the same down in Skåne. The municipality also says no. What we want to do is to invest in a railway that creates capacity for regional trains but also for freight trains. We need to get more traffic on the tracks. But there is no reason to have an exclusive railway that should have only one type of train, the so-called high-speed trains. It's completely backwards. When we are in a situation where we have to get more traffic on the tracks, we cannot have a track that is exclusive to a single train type. I don't understand how the government thinks there. That's one thing. The second is that at the same time we allow ourselves to destroy capital on the fine-meshed road networks, where we consciously enter the future and say: The roads will be worse in 2033 than they are today. The rail network will be worse in 2033 than it is today. On the other hand, we have come halfway by building high-speed trains. But they're not supposed to start walking until 2045. To be honest, I don't understand what you're thinking. There's a lot you can do for decent little money. I'm not an economist, but at least I can count. It is possible to do quite a lot for decent little money and get a traffic that works. How hard can it be? After all, you are speed-blind in this project and allow other infrastructure to fail. I don't understand that. And how are we going to get through the fine road network or the regional tracks when there's no money? The government owes me an answer.
i-84127737242618d4-1232	Mr President, I would like to I note that new main lines are being framed with approximately 107 billion. It is about Gothenburg– Borås, Ostlänken and Lund– Hässleholm. If the Swedish Democrats now want to take this money – that's how I have interpreted it – it means that we stop it as for Sweden, for Swedish railway systems and for three really large labour market regions are the most important priorities they have been working on for a very long time. This is a remarkable message from the Swedish Democrats. In addition, there is an additional SEK 330 billion on the development grant for, among other things, investments in rail. Not least, we have pointed out northern Sweden. I think everyone has heard my commitment to the Norrbotnia Line and the South East Link. But there may also be a lot of other requests. But it is also about investments on the way. Last time the E4 at Skellefteå has been discussed. I think it may be important to look at efforts in connection with the major industrial establishments there. This is how we now work with the Swedish Transport Administration's proposals and with referral points. Then the Swedish Democrats want to pull the hand brake, and they say that there will be less investment in new infrastructure in a situation where Sweden has 10 million inhabitants, large industrial start-ups and a great need for more capacity in the Swedish transport system. It is very mysterious to me how the Swedish democrats reason. It is not possible to dream back in time and believe that all transport goes by road. We in Sweden need to transfer an increasing share of transport on capable rail, maritime and electrified roads. Then with BK4 we will ensure good infrastructure for rural roads and ensure that we have climate-smart trucks so that we have a well-functioning transport system throughout Sweden. But we need to work on creating a sustainable transport system. That is the starting point for government policy, and we are well on our way.
i-84127737242618d4-1236	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked questions about the regulations for inspection and whether I intend to work towards environmental requirements when registering A-tractors. The Swedish Transport Agency's regulations, which became applicable in 2018, mean that limit values for environmental control were both lowered and raised compared to earlier. In addition to the impact assessment carried out by the Swedish Transport Agency in connection with the adjustments, the Government also commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to analyse the climate and environmental impact of the changes. Analysis showed that the changes had only had a very marginal impact on the environment. When it comes to vehicles, it is also important to remember that the greatest impact on the environment is the tightening up of requirements for new vehicles. Sweden is the driving force in the negotiations on the new exhaust gas requirements, the so-called Euroclass requirements. As the EU now also revises the so-called inspection package, it will include new control methods for particulate measurement and hopefully nitrogen oxides. Better control methods create opportunities for stricter environmental requirements. Sweden is the driving force for a revised EU regulatory framework with requirements for good and refined measurement methods. As far as A-tractors are concerned, I can inform you that the Swedish Transport Agency recently implemented regulatory changes that mean that the vehicles no longer need to be driven at high speeds, which has previously been a requirement. This reduces fuel consumption and emissions. The Government has also recently commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to review the rules for A-tractors as a whole. The impact of vehicles on the environment is part of that mission.
i-84127737242618d4-1239	Mr President, I would like to We know that the transport sector in Sweden is one of our largest sources of emissions. The transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions. Now we have an ambitious climate target. Emissions will be reduced by 70% by 2030. But there are also other aspects of our transport that affect the environment and also health, such as the air we breathe. As many as 7 500 people in Sweden die prematurely because of air pollution. One important reason for this is precisely the emissions from cars, lorries and other vehicles in our transport. Ensuring that the vehicles that drive on our roads do not emit more than is absolutely necessary is a very important function for the inspection carried out by our vehicles. The inspection is regulated by a regulatory framework that determines what is to be controlled and in what way. I therefore believe that many people were surprised when we received new regulations for inspection in May 2018. When you look at those regulations, you can see that environmental ambitions have been reduced in several areas rather than increased. For example, emissions of particulate matter from vehicles are now measured only on the basis of general limits, not as before against the plate value, i.e. the value set up by the vehicle manufacturer. If you have been below that value, you have not been approved in the inspection. Nor is there such a rigorous control of the vehicle OBD system. In the past, a check was carried out against the fault codes that could be found in the OBD system. It could lead to failure. This is no longer happening, Mr President. And diesel vehicles older than 20 years of age are no longer subjected to detailed exhaust measurement, but this should be assessed by the inspector or woman only with the naked eye. Mr President, I would like to The inspection industry has courted us on several occasions in the Committee on Transport and Communications and has pointed out that these are severe deteriorations in the environmental ambition of the vehicle inspection. They do not want these deteriorations, but they have been given them, because the government has allowed these deteriorating regulations to go through. The inspection industry now believes that we are one of the EU's worst countries in terms of environmental ambitions for vehicle inspection. You can also look at the number of vehicles that fail. They are much fewer today than before 2018, when the new regulations came into force.
i-84127737242618d4-1245	I would also like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure about the report to which reference is made. In fact, it is clearly stated in that report that there have been lower environmental ambitions with the new regulations. There I think I get the answer to my own question, but I want to hear it from Tomas Eneroth. And what is he prepared to do to increase the environmental ambitions of the vehicle inspection?
i-84127737242618d4-1246	Mr President, I would like to I would like to give an extra thank you to Jens Holm for a very educational landing on this issue. I thought it was exemplary to account for the change that needs to be made in the transport industry and in the vehicles and the requirements we impose on the vehicle manufacturers and then land in the inspection. The questions about inspection rules are very important. No one should hesitate about the ambition of the climate transition in this government, or for that matter in the former – that is what the regulatory framework we are talking about. We have been a leader in climate work internationally. It has not been so long since I myself participated in COP 26. Among other things, I came up with two important products that deal with what climate requirements we should impose on both heavier and light vehicles. I appreciate Jens Holm's commitment and share it. This is a difficult matter, I'll tell you the truth. What measurement methods should be used? How do we implement directives? As to whether to have sign values or not, EU countries do not directly agree on which method is best. The Netherlands and Sweden have chosen not to use sign values, others have done so. I also reacted at the beginning to information that there could be a deterioration of requirements. That has not been the government's ambition. This was also the background to the task of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency to analyse both the climate and environmental impacts of these changes. The IVL study shows that there were extremely marginal changes. However, there are also proposals on what we need to think about when the new inspection and roadside inspection directive is to be revised. I think it is incredibly important that we have adequate measurement methods and that we use the best possible input values to ensure that the cars do not emit more than is declared earlier and what is permitted. Then, of course, it is a question of efficiency. I have seen a description based on the use of the old limit values. I think it was 250 vehicles per year that would have failed with the older limit values. The differences are therefore marginal. Nevertheless, I would like to be clear to Jens Holm that I do not hesitate to revise this and tighten up the requirements for the work to be done on the inspection directive. I think it's important. I assume that the Swedish Transport Agency but also the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will come to the government if they have clear demands for improvements that can be made. It is important that we have a well-functioning inspection. It is also important that we have measurement methods that are relevant and scientifically proven. It is also, of course, important for us to be leaders in terms of the requirements we impose on vehicles. If there are shortcomings, I am prepared to take the initiative to move forward. However, the evidence I have received from the authorities shows that there are extremely marginal effects based on the study IVL has done. The inspection industry has engaged in a dialogue, and I understand that it has done so together with the responsible authorities. I have been prepared to listen to comments. If there is any interest in tightening up the regulatory framework in the future, I will contribute to this.
i-84127737242618d4-1254	Mr President, I would like to Both the Minister and I are convinced that emissions must be reduced, both for the sake of the climate and for the sake of public health. There are 7 500 premature deaths in Sweden alone, and in Europe almost 400 000 die prematurely because of air pollution. I find it a little strange that the Minister then says that there have been only marginal changes with the new regulations for vehicle inspection. After all, there have been deteriorations. Since 2018, the government has been going in the wrong direction. We're letting through more cars with higher emissions today than before. The Minister knows that very well. I know that the inspection industry has sent the Minister all the information on this, and I am sure he has also been met. Today, for example, only half the number of petrol cars fail during the inspection compared to the previous year. There are only one third as many who fail compared to 2018. So these are rather severe deteriorations, I would say. The Minister refers to a report. We should remember that it was the Swedish Transport Agency that carried out these deteriorations and that it is also the Swedish Transport Agency that has led the investigation that has been carried out. If you read this report carefully, you can see that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was opposed to these deteriorations and changes in inspection rules. On page 35 of the report, there is a fairly clear conclusion as to what the new rules have led to: This is what page 35 says in the report that has been commissioned to evaluate the new rules. It says that we have increased emissions and that we find it more difficult to achieve our environmental objectives, such as the climate target and the objective of fresh air. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again: is the Minister prepared, on the basis of this information, to change the rules so that we have more rigorous environmental ambitions in vehicle inspection? Three years have passed since these changes were made. I don't understand why it should take so long. The Minister referred to ongoing EU work on a new inspection directive. I wonder whether the lower environmental ambitions that we have within the framework of this directive will be abandoned. Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask about the A-tractors, which are sometimes called epatractors. There are quite a few of them now. The number has increased by 80 per cent in the last five years alone; today there are over 30 000 in Sweden. There is no environmental control when inspecting them. The Minister referred to an investigation that is currently under way. I would like to ask whether, in the framework of that investigation, the Minister has given a mandate to make proposals on how rigorous environmental control of the A-tractors should be carried out during the vehicle inspection.
i-84127737242618d4-1262	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for his commitment. No one should hesitate about the ambition to have adequate control methods. The Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have tried to agree which are the best control methods. I note that the type of control method used in the EU is slightly different. I think it is important that, now that we are negotiating the new inspection directives, we tighten up the requirements. This is also Sweden's clear ambition; Jens Holm can be absolutely sure of that. We need a revised EU regulatory framework, but we also need to define the right control methods. I assume that our authorities will be driven by the government's instructions. As far as the A-tractors are concerned, as I explained in the interpellation response, there have already been regulatory changes which mean that they no longer need to be driven at high speeds. This was an old regulation, and if we are to be really honest, it was not the smartest thing from a climate point of view. The increase in the number of A tractors has brought new problems up to date. For example, there is congestion, not least on two plus one roads, when driving at 30 kilometres an hour and when there are long queues. It is therefore a question of the impact of A-tractors on other traffic. In addition, it should be remembered that for A tractors, unlike mopeds, we do not have belt requirements. Nor do we have the same requirements for driver training. They're allowed to travel for a maximum of 30 kilometers an hour. This was the background to the fact that we set up an investigation and said: Make a proper search! It may be right to increase the speed to 45 kilometres per hour in order not to have such a big impact on other traffic, but it may also be right to look at the construction of the vehicles, on belt requirements and on driver training. The way things are now, we can't really have it in the long run. In this assignment is also to look at the impact of vehicles on the environment. The starting point here is not to look at the exact control methods to be used, but it is free for the responsible authority to also look at everything from the manipulation of speeds and engine to other technical design in the specific case of A tractors. I think it is important to take advantage of young people's interest in A tractors and engines in order to increase mobility; there is an intrinsic value in this. But it should be safe and climate smart, and it should be done in a way that does not have too much impact on other traffic. It is only to be recognised that there are some challenges with the sharp increase we have seen in the number of A tractors, both in terms of the impact on other traffic and in relation to the European regulatory framework that we must follow. It is a question of driving mopeds, which are considerably less crash-proof, at 45 kilometres per hour. Perhaps I would rather we look at alternatives so that the country's young people – for it is mainly these who drive – can travel both safely and climate-smartly. The starting point here is that the investigator, or the authority, should look at what efforts can be made. Let us help to ensure that it is as climate-smart as possible in the case of the A tractor.
i-84127737242618d4-1274	Madam President, I would like The minister talked a lot about the A-tractors, but I didn't actually hear that he answered my specific question. The question was: should an environmental check be carried out, with the new proposals, on the monitoring of an A-tractor on emissions of particulate matter and other substances? I think this is extremely important. It cannot be that we do not have control of the emissions from over 30 000 vehicles. I would like the Minister to comment on this. With regard to the reduced environmental ambitions of the inspection, I find it strange that the Minister and the Government have allowed these deteriorating rules to go through. It is clear – in the report referred to by the Minister himself, page 35 states that this makes it difficult for us to achieve environmental objectives with limited climate impact and fresh air. It also states that the results show an increase in emissions. This should be enough for the Minister to sit down tomorrow and instruct the relevant authority to produce new, more ambitious regulations for vehicle inspection, so that we do not let through 20-year-old diesel cars on which a detailed control of emissions should not even be carried out. That's how it's done now. Vehicles are not controlled against the OBD system, which the car has built in precisely to detect faults and defects. There is no longer a rigorous particle control against the plate value, i.e. the value that the vehicle manufacturer himself has set up. Madam President, I would like I hope that we will urgently get better rules on how to control our cars. We are talking about millions of vehicles out on our streets, and we cannot allow them to release more than necessary.
i-84127737242618d4-1279	Madam President, I would like I think we should be aware that the large part is about all the new vehicles that are now coming in, where electrification has an impact. Sweden is the EU country with the highest share of new car sales for rechargeable vehicles. It is clear that this will also make sense in the impact of cars on the climate in Sweden. Here we continue with further initiatives, both to facilitate charging and to ensure that more can use electric vehicles in the future. This is one part; it is important to remind ourselves of it, so that we see the greatness of what is going on and what emissions we can limit. The second part is, of course, that negotiations are underway on the new inspection directive and the new rules for inspection. That is where we ensure that we are very active in ensuring that we have a new European regulatory framework that can be applied. I think this may be the most important effort. The evaluation made by the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which Jens Holm chose to read out some parts of, shows that it is extremely marginal impact. I appreciate the commitment, but I also think that we need to look at what is reasonable in relation to the work that needs to be done. Not least when it comes to very old vehicles, one has to see how effective it is to spend a great deal of time and effort on them. I thought I answered the question about A-tractors. It is within the framework of the mission to also look at the impact on the climate. If the authority chooses, within the framework of the mission, to look at the consequences of this on the inspection, it is of course welcome. With the increasing proportion of A-tractors we have, I think it is very important to make sure that these are also climate-smart. I think the young people who drive A tractors think this is quite reasonable. I also think it is important that they can go on biofuels in the future and eventually also be electrified. We will reduce transport emissions by 70% by 2030. We're going to be net zero in 2045. My ambition is for us to be able to take it even faster. We are very well in line with being able to reduce emissions. Let us continue that work!
i-84127737242618d4-1285	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked me whether I am prepared to include tasks in the regulatory letters of more authorities in order to facilitate compliance with the food strategy, what I and the government are doing to simplify the rules for Swedish farmers and food businesses, and whether I share the view that some authorities are not complying sufficiently with the administrative law and whether I intend to work to persuade those authorities to comply better with the administrative law. It is important that the mission to the authorities is clear on how to work towards the objectives of the food strategy. Therefore, ever since the Food Strategy was decided in the Riksdag in 2017, the Government has been working on developing the governance of the authorities responsible for the food chain. For example, the then Minister for Rural Development early convened a strategic group of authorities to discuss how they can contribute to the objectives of the food strategy on the basis of their respective official mandates. In connection with Action Plan Part 2, which came in December 2019, the Government decided to commission the Swedish Agency for Growth to coordinate national and regional food strategies in order to achieve more active coordination. Based on this mission, the agency has formed a new collaboration group with the same authorities as mentioned, as well as professional organisations in the food chain and regional representatives of the county administrative board and the regions. These meetings were also attended by the Secretary of State of the Minister for Rural Development. In connection with Action Plan Part 2, the Swedish Agency for Growth was also tasked with identifying rules that impair competitiveness, growth opportunities or innovation capacity for companies in the food chain, and the task of simplifying government contacts digitally, including by creating services for coherent guided processes. This year, the assignment was extended to the Swedish Agency for Growth to also develop services to streamline and simplify the application of permits to companies in the food chain in order to provide the conditions for efficient and rapid case management. These measures I see will in the long term have an effect on businesses in the food industry. Simplification policy is an important part of enterprise policy and helps to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. The Government is continuously considering how regulations and administrative procedures may need to be updated and possibly simplified. On 21 September this year, the government submitted a letter entitled 'A simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation' (p. 2021/ 22:3) to the Riksdag. Through this, the Government decided on simplification policy objectives that create the conditions for concrete simplification work in the future. The letter also announced a number of tasks that the government is considering submitting to the appropriate authorities in order to create concrete simplifications, such as shorter processing times. These missions are now being prepared within the Government Office. Several authorities' regulatory letters have included a reporting requirement in which they will report how they contribute to the objectives set by the Riksdag for the development strategy. It is important that public administration tasks are handled responsibly and properly. In order to further strengthen the legal certainty of individuals and to reform and modernise the procedure of the managing authorities, a new Administrative Act (2017:900) was adopted, which entered into force on 1 July 2018. The Administrative Act provides a basic and central structure for contacts between authorities and individuals in case handling. Some general principles of administrative law developed in practice were set out in explicit provisions and a new remedy against slow processing was introduced. I believe that through these measures we are working towards clarity vis-à-vis the authorities on how within their activities they can contribute to creating good conditions for companies in the food chain, so that the food strategy's goals of increased and sustainable food production can be achieved by 2030.
i-84127737242618d4-1295	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Swedish agriculture is among the best in the world. We must allow Swedish agriculture to perform. It is when it is hampered by special legislation – without compensation – high tax rates, legal uncertainty and regulatory uncertainty that it cannot achieve its full potential. We have seen what happens when the basic conditions are worse for our farmers than for our competitors. There will be closures and a reduction in food production. In today's debate, we focus on the role of the authorities in the food strategy and the rule of law. We Swedish democrats believe that the balance between different values is crucial for good decision-making. This means, for example, that environmental issues cannot be determined solely by environmental policy arguments or that economic issues cannot be determined solely by economic arguments. For food production to increase, that value must also be included in all crucial decisions. Swedish ministries are small, and much of the activities are delegated to authorities. Such a system should either ensure that the authorities make the necessary balance between values or systematically raise the issues to the political level. One way of achieving a broader perspective on authorities and encouraging them to strike the necessary balance is to give instructions in regulatory letters and regulations with instructions for authorities. A farmer may be directly or indirectly affected by 25 different authorities. Not all these authorities today have instructions in their regulatory letters that make them work towards simplification at farm level, that they promote increased food production and that they contribute to strengthening Sweden's self-sufficiency in food. The National Federation of Farmers wants the Government to give several authorities a number of new instructions in regulatory letters and regulations that reduce the hassle and the objectives of the food strategy are given conditions to be met. These include the following authorities: the county administrative boards, the Swedish Food Administration, the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Increased legal certainty can be achieved by ensuring close compliance with the Administrative Act. It would also lead to less hassle. There are several very good principles. I would particularly like to highlight a principle, which is sometimes called the principle of proportionality. The text of the Administrative Act states that the Authority may intervene in an individual interest only if the measure is likely to result in the intended result. The measure shall in no case go beyond what is necessary and may be taken unless the intended result is proportionate to the inconvenience likely to arise to the person to whom it is addressed. The authority cannot therefore operate in a vacuum and tell an individual to do one or the other. The Authority must identify the inconveniences that may arise for it and adapt the decision to the basis. Is it? Yeah, sometimes, but sometimes not. In the Administrative Act there are also requirements for fast management and good service, so it is clear that good compliance with the administrative law of all authorities would be positive. In its reply, the Minister mentions measures taken by the Government for simplification purposes and with a view to achieving the objectives of the food strategy and in order to persuade the authorities to comply with the Administrative Act. That is a good thing, but this is included by the LRF when they are criticising the current order. The latest post is updated on December 8th, eight days ago. The LRF is not satisfied with either regulatory letters, the food strategy or the regulatory issue. Should I interpret the Minister's answer as being satisfied with what has been done and that nothing more is needed? Or should I take what the Minister says as a promise that more authorities will have instructions in their regulatory letters this year?
i-84127737242618d4-1307	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member says, it is incredibly important that we have authorities and that we give tasks to our authorities when we want something, as with the food strategy, for example. I tried to describe some of this, for example that we commissioned Formas, Vinnova, the Swedish Agriculture Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency, SLU, the Swedish Food Administration and also the county administrative boards to contribute to the food strategy's goals and that we then also commissioned the Swedish Growth Agency to coordinate this. I believe that coordination between the authorities and a cooperation group is also extremely important. This is not the only thing we have done to achieve the food strategy and simplifications, but the Swedish Agency for Growth was commissioned to continue the development of the so-called joint service, to simplify government contacts digitally, among other things, by creating services for coherent guided processes. This year, the assignment to the Swedish Agency for Growth was extended to also develop services to streamline and simplify the registration or application of permits for environmental impact activities for companies in the food chain. The county administrative boards also have an ongoing mission to develop, together with Vinnova, methods and forms of collaboration to promote an effective consultation process according to the Environmental Code. Staffan Eklöf asks if we can give several authorities assignments, and I will come back to that. The regulatory letters aren't ready yet, so I can tell you what's going on right now and who's on the mission right now. When it comes to the principle of proportionality and to entrust authorities with the task of cooperating, several authorities are required, as Staffan Eklöf says. One is not enough if we are to achieve the objectives that we have jointly decided on and want to achieve. We want increased food exports, profitability at farm level and environmentally friendly and sustainable agriculture. We want the whole chain from primary production to export.
i-84127737242618d4-1311	Madam President, I would like I look forward with curiosity to reading the regulatory letters when they are ready and hopefully there find more instructions with more precision for the promotion of food production. I will come back to you on the matter. There was indeed a clarification of the Administrative Act in 2017, and it was important but, as it seems, insufficient. Let me take an example from reality. There are several cases where agricultural undertakings that have applied for authorisation for a measure have had to wait for more than a year for notification without the authority having applied for a dialogue. When the information then comes, it is clearly unreasonable in relation to the company's activities and situation. In some cases, a little bit of the activity could have been changed to achieve the objectives to be achieved. This means that a refusal is far more far-reaching than would have been necessary and therefore does not comply with the principle of proportionality. The authority probably didn't know, because it hasn't found out. This leads to an important conclusion. If public authorities engage in a dialogue with companies, society's objectives can usually be achieved in a different way, one that is better suited to the company's situation. In this way, the decisions will be better. The application of the principle of proportionality should be specified. This can be done by clarifying in the Administrative Act that the Authority should always consider whether dialogue is needed to ascertain whether the Authority really knows the circumstances well enough and that dialogue with the applicant should always be required in more complex cases. This shall be a requirement to consider compliance with the principle of proportionality. Is this something the Minister would be willing to work for? Perhaps you can start by launching an investigation into the matter.
i-84127737242618d4-1318	Madam President, I would like As Mr Eklöf says, we have just had new legislation in place. The principle of proportionality applies, and for me this means, of course, that there should be proportionality in the decisions taken. The individual case raised by Staffan Eklöf I cannot comment on because it is the exercise of authority, but my experience is that people can have a good dialogue with authorities and that authorities should strive to work with dialogue and to explain the decisions they make. If you are not satisfied with the decision, you can, as the honourable Member knows, appeal the decision if you wish. Perhaps it is not the Administrative Act that we should be discussing today. But we decided on it together not long ago. It is good that there is a principle of proportionality, and it should of course work. With regard to the authorities I have listed, which we have discussed within the objective of the food strategy, it is gratifying that many of them have the task of promoting the food strategy and ensuring that the objectives are achieved. I think that both Staffan Eklöf and I are inspired by this. Today, I told the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture that the new strategic plan contains simplifications, because we want to spend more time on production and less time on administration, thereby increasing production in Sweden of our good and safe food.
i-84127737242618d4-1323	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, it seems that the government does not currently know whether more agencies will be assigned to promote the food strategy's goals and increased self-sufficiency in Sweden. I also understand that the government is reluctant to investigate a clarification of the administrative law so that it works as intended. I also recall that the government has previously rejected a proposal from the Swedish Democrats to impose legal requirements on control personnel to know the industry they control. If, for example, one carries out supervision of animal husbandry, one should be aware of precisely animal husbandry. I mean, the government doesn't use all the tools in the toolbox, and I think the government should. I also think that the understanding of why a farmer's working life consists of so much hassle and legal hassle is not complete, either in the general debate or in the measures taken by the government to date. A change would be positive. Is such a thing going on?
i-84127737242618d4-1326	Madam President, I would like I thank Staffan Eklöf for his interest in these important issues. As I said in my speech, it is important for public administration tasks to be handled responsibly and properly, and in order to strengthen the legal certainty of individuals and to reform and modernise the procedure of the managing authorities, we adopted the new administrative law. The Administrative Act also provides a fundamental and central structure for what Staffan Eklöf calls for, namely contacts between authorities and individuals in case handling. Some general principles of administrative law developed in practice were also set out in explicit provisions and a new remedy against slow processing was introduced. Finally, allow me to wish the honourable Member a Merry Christmas. I hope he has a lot of Swedish food on the Christmas table, and preferably the herring we were with and made sure we get to fish – although it will probably be more midsummer herring than Christmas herring, because Christmas herring is already fished.
i-84127737242618d4-1330	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me whether I intend to work towards the implementation of the parliamentary decision of 170 – 270 wolves and whether I intend to ensure that hunting licences for wolves are adapted to the pressure on the predator wolf. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported in 2013 that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden was 270. The reference value for favourable conservation status is a value that must not be underestimated, a floor for the strain simply. According to the European Commission's guidelines, a favourable conservation status benchmark should be developed from a vulnerability analysis. It is about finding a level of the tribe where it is not at risk of extinction. The vulnerability analysis underlying the benchmark was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects, which is a requirement of the European Commission's guidelines. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2015 to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. The analysis showed that in view of the population's inbreeding rate, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia needs to reproduce with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. Member States report the conservation status situation to the European Commission every six years. Between the reports, countries need to update developments. Last reported by Sweden, in 2019, it was stated that the reference value for favourable conservation status for wolf was deemed to be 300 individuals. I understand that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment of the reference value for favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden now rests on the scientific basis that the European Commission's guidelines require of the Member States. The Swedish Wildlife Administration is regionalised. It is the county administrative boards that are responsible for interacting within and between counties so that predatory pressure is acceptable. County administrative boards have the possibility to decide on the hunting of wolves when the maintenance of the wolf's favourable conservation status is not made more difficult in order, inter alia, to reduce the concentration of predators in predatory areas. The overall and long-term goal of Sweden's predatory policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and kungsörn should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the EU Species and Habitats Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Livestock management should be consistent with our EU legal obligations and other national targets.
i-84127737242618d4-1337	Madam President, I would like The wolf is a predator that has long been almost extinct in Sweden. The debris of the wolf tribe that has grown today originates from a few individuals. Most wolves in Sweden are more related to each other than normal siblings, so inbred is the wolf tribe. Therefore, all new wolves without kinship have also been considered important. It is not possible to have a healthy population over time without healthy genes being added to the wolf strain. Madam President, I would like This is probably the reason why the Government, although the Riksdag decided otherwise, has allowed the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to do this. We have decided that the tribe should be 170 - 270 animals. Today, however, it is estimated to be about 375 animals without puppies, with a confidence interval of 312 – 513 wolves. It's way above the agreed levels. There are consequences. These are consequences that no one wants to stand for. In my home county, Örebro County, there are now about 60 wolves, and this on an area equal to 2.5 per cent of Sweden. It would be equivalent to 240 wolves if all counties housed the same number from the surface. In addition, there are densely populated areas and areas where the land between forest and agricultural land is grazed. The grazing livestock graze the land where other land cannot be cultivated in order to maintain biodiversity. Now both these pastures and the security of the people living in vargy areas are under threat. Madam President, I would like You can't have sheep husbandry or leave schoolchildren waiting for the bus in the dark where there's a wolf. It is not a responsible predatory policy. We cannot allow a county of Örebro County's size to accommodate as much as one third of the decided wolves in Sweden. The Social Democratic Government is now obliged to confess color and not to duck for the problems. I have mentioned them in the debate before. It was then referred to that it was the Environment Party that was in charge of the Ministry. But now it is the Social Democrats who have that responsibility. It is important to know how the Social Democrats view these issues. Madam President, I would like Is it the policy of the Social Democrats to continue not only to subject Örebro County to massive wolf pressure but also to defy previous parliamentary decisions? Who thinks the Minister is responsible when we have the first attack not only on domestication, which has already happened, but also on human beings? In my home country, both cattle and flocks of sheep have been attacked. Is that the minister's responsibility? Is it the government's responsibility? Because it is not the responsibility of Parliament. It has already said its thing, Madam President. How does the Minister intend to ensure that not only Örebro County and some other counties in Sweden will bear the heavy responsibility for the growing wolf tribe?
i-84127737242618d4-1346	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for your questions. It is obvious that it is not only Örebro County that should carry predator policy. The game administration is regionalised. It is the county administrative boards that can decide on license hunting for several different reasons. However, consideration must also be given to the favourable conservation status. We know that we have commitments to the European Union in relation to the Species and Habitats Directive. We know we should have our predators, and we want a favourable conservation status. As the honourable Member says, we also have to get wolves in from elsewhere to make it a good tribe of wolves. The Swedish Wildlife Administration is regionalised. Last time I looked, it was the county boards that decided on a license hunt. The Member told us about the pressure in Örebro. It can now be seen that from 2 January to 15 February there may be a licence hunt. Together with Västmanland and Dalarna, Örebro County Administrative Board has decided that twelve wolves in the territory of Haraldsjön and Snösjön should be on a licence hunt, and also six wolves in the territory of Immen together with Värmland. The game administration is regionalised. The county administrative boards of course have the greatest knowledge of what it looks like in their own area and how they interact with other counties. I think it is a very good order to have game management and predator management regionalised where you know exactly what it looks like. From 2 January to 15 February in Örebro you can hunt for 18 wolves in the territory I was just talking about.
i-84127737242618d4-1352	Madam President, I would like There are three of the five counties that have the wolves. I usually go in there and see what it looks like for the wolf. It is now also available in Stockholm County. I was in the minister's county looking around Åre. There's no wolf there. This is not reasonable. It cannot be my county administrative board at home in Örebro County that will run it. The County Administrative Board is the state's extended arm. Somewhere the government has to take responsibility. Wolf pressure has been placed far above what Parliament has decided. Then I think it is the government's responsibility to deal with it. We can't wait for an accident. We had a wolf attack on an island at home. The wolf swims out - I know how many hundred meters - and takes sheep on an island. It was, of course, a whole flock and not just a wolf. I would like to ask Minister Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg if she would like to show her little eight-year-old to stand and wait for the bus in such an area. This is a matter of security. As with shootings and other security issues, I think it is our responsibility to make decisions that make people feel safe. Otherwise, people will make those decisions themselves. I guess neither the Minister nor I want you to take the gun yourself and decide when to shoot and not shoot. We will not be accepted unless we have a reasonable attitude to people's security. Our county can't house 60 wolves. It's that simple. If so, it must be ensured that other areas of the country can increase their wolf population, or you cannot have it like this. I believe that this is the responsibility of the government. I hear that I'm getting very upset. This concerns the safety of schoolchildren. I do not want to be responsible on the day a child in any of the forest areas is affected by an attack. The wolf has been here before, and there is still a reason why you fear it. Of course, it is an animal that hunts small game, but it is not a harmless predator. Our people today also have no knowledge of how to make peace or cope with a predator attack. I'm sure it's the same with bears in some areas. We do not know how to behave in a good way in order to keep us at peace. I do not think this answer is correct. You can't send a decision like this down to a county council. The Government is responsible for how the county boards handle the decisions that have been made. Parliament's responsibility is not, because we have decided on much lower levels than the previous government. It blamed the Green Party and said that it was their responsibility that the population had increased, but now it is the responsibility of the Social Democrats. Ultimately, it is Minister Sätherberg who is responsible for this. I am not satisfied with this answer.
i-84127737242618d4-1362	Madam President, I would like For the honourable Member's information, I can tell you that it is absolutely right: we in Jämtland are part of a wolf rejuvenation right now, but we are also a reindeer grazing country. If, however, the honourable Member believes that there are no wolves in Jämtland, I can tell the honourable Member that there is. The reindeer industry can really tell the honourable Member about those attacks. But since we have reindeer nutrition in almost the whole county, we do not have wolf rejuvenations in that way. On the other hand, we have an enormous proportion of the other predators, as the honourable Member said. On the other hand, contrary to the honourable Member, I think that regionalisation is a good order, and I know that we Social Democrats have been thinking for a long time. The fact that decisions are made close to home is, in my opinion, a good order – that we have the game administration in Sweden regionalised and that they decide on license hunting. If you notice that there is a danger or if you can see something else, you can decide on either a protection hunt or a licence hunt. I think it is a good order to let the game management delegations and the county administrative board work on those issues, which actually know for real. Lotta Olsson addresses the concerns that exist with great emphasis. These are not easy questions. We should be able to have living and viable rural areas where you can live and work, while at the same time having undertaken to have a predator management that has the EU's demand for it to be a favourable conservation status. It is based on the scientific basis that the European Commission is actually demanding of its Member States. Whether it is a social democrat or a moderate who is a rural minister, we have the same commitments to the European Union for what we are going to achieve. That said, there are also things that are being done. There's a wild-sacrifice center. We have now increased the pot where, in the past, only 80% was given for prevention, such as predatory fences, to 100% so that you can get the full cost. So there are things that are being done. For my part, we should have the predators, but we should also be able to live, live, appear, have animals and not have worried children in Sweden's rural areas. We have to do both. Then I think the best order is that we have regionalised game management.
i-84127737242618d4-1367	Madam President, I would like But then it won't work if we're going to have 60 wolves in our area. Then there is something that has failed very much. I have raised several times with our governor that they say this: Now it has become a little less wolf in another county. They've disappeared for some reason. Then you're welcome to take on a greater responsibility. It's not okay to do this! I think it is irresponsible and dangerous behaviour. They sit back and say that it is a regional responsibility. Our county hasn't told us to take 60 wolves. There is no regional responsibility for doing so. At the same time, it is a bit presumptuous to talk about fences. I have visited lamb farmers who have quadruple fences, and so you still have to go wolf watch in the areas between pasture and forest. And when the wolves swim out 200 - 300 meters, Minister Sätherberg must actually understand that there are no small cuddly rabbits it is about without predators. In fact, I do not think I am getting a responsible answer. I also don't want to be the one in charge the day there's going to be an attack on some kids standing by the school bus. That's my responsibility to the government. The numbers are above the level actually needed for conservation status. There is also talk of healthy genes coming. Then Örebro County, which is located in the middle of the country, must be the most difficult place to get to with healthy genes if you swim from Finland. There must be much better places in the country to breed with healthy genes than in the middle of the country, where you are going through very densely populated areas.
i-84127737242618d4-1373	Madam President, I would like I hear you have a burning commitment to these issues, Lotta Olsson. I can't help it if you don't like my answers. We have the EU Species and Habitats Directive to deal with, while we have people's well-being, woes and rural living to deal with. We must find this balance: both have the big predators and at the same time be able to live in, operate in, develop and love our Swedish countryside. We do that in different ways. Although the honourable Member does not think that regionalised game management is a good thing, I think it is a good thing. You have the best knowledge of your own field. We've got a wild-throat center. We have tried in various ways to ensure that we can have a balance and coexistence. Since this is my closing speech, I would like to wish the honourable Member, Madam President and everyone else who is sitting here a really merry Christmas. If you have nothing else to do, go up to our beautiful Swedish mountains and perhaps even Åre!
