i-1905f3d8671bce70-17	Madam President, I would like Finally! I would like to exclaim. At last, the government is putting forward a requirement for driver's certificates, driving licences, to be allowed to drive jet skis. How we have handled these craft, watercraft, in Sweden is a fairly long and sometimes tragic story. As early as the beginning of the 1990s, we had a general ban on watercraft formulated in the watercraft regulation of 1993. There, jet skis were banned except in public fairways and in other designated areas. But that was not the case for the European Union, which considered it to be a restriction on freedom of movement. It ended with a judgment in the European Court of Justice in 2009, and ever since then we have had a long discussion in Sweden about how we can get things straight on the lake and how we can regulate these craft called watercraft. We in the Left Party have long been clear. We think the original ban was good. If we cannot make use of it, we have been pushing for a long time that there should be driving licence requirements for watercraft, and there should also be a clear age limit. It is needed, for the watercrafts are craft with an engine capacity comparable to a normal-sized car. They have hundreds of horsepower and a peak speed of over 100 kilometers per hour. They are also basic, so they can be performed almost everywhere. It is a big problem because you can drive very close to beaches with them, where for example bathing children, canoeists, seabirds and many others want to be. Unfortunately, the performance of watercraft is associated with many accidents. Every summer we get new terrible reports from the naval police and others about terrible accidents that can even end with death, disability, etcetera. We must therefore get a better order on the sea, and it is now very welcome that the government is proposing a requirement for driver's certificate to have jet skis. Madam President, I would like I said, "almost." But when you look a little more closely at the Government proposal, you see that it does not come into force this summer. That is completely contrary to the proposal made by the government only six months ago. The memorandum called the Driver's Certificate for watercraft, presented by the Government on 7 December 2020, announced that a driver's licence requirement would enter into force this summer. That is not the case. The licence requirement will not enter into force until next summer. This means that we will have another summer with great risks of further accidents and inconveniences caused by the running of jet skis. I can only hold the government responsible for this prudence. I do not understand why it should take so long for the government to act. This is an issue that has been investigated and proposed several times. There are announcements from the Riksdag in which we appeal to the government to submit demands for driving licences for jet skis. The Maritime and Water Authority has also proposed it. In internal documents and government memos for many years, there have also been proposals on watercraft driving licences. I have also proposed this from 2013 onwards in several interpellation debates in Parliament and in written questions. So I do not understand why it cannot come into force this summer, and why we have to wait another summer. The government proposed this in December. At that time the pandemic was going on; already then the government knew there was a pandemic going on. Yet it was said that this would enter into force by summer 2021. So this is not the case. It will be an understatement for the government on this issue. Madam President, I would like Nor do I understand why the government is not taking the opportunity to raise the age limit for driving jet skis. Two years ago, the government's age limit of 15 entered into force. You should be 15 years old to drive a vehicle with several hundred horsepower and a top speed of over 100 kilometres per hour. Of course, we would never allow this on land. You wouldn't be allowed to drive a motorcycle with the same speed and engine power if you were 15 years old. But on the lake, you're obviously allowed to do it. The Left Party has therefore put forward a concrete proposal in the report to take the opportunity to introduce an age limit of 18 years in order to drive jet skis. This age limit can enter into force as early as this summer. I am in favour of Amendment No 8, which deals with this very issue. Madam President, I would like I would like to draw Parliament's attention to two important announcements, proposals for decisions, which a majority in Parliament has proposed and which the Left Party of course supports. The first concerns how the training activities for driving licences are to be carried out. We believe, of course, that we should take advantage of the existing training organisations in boating. Already today you can take training to take driver's certificates or a coastal shipper's degree for ordinary boats and ships. It is handled in an excellent way through various organisations linked to shipping, boats and other things. We do not think that we need to reinvent the wheel and develop a new training organisation for just driving licences for watercraft. Let us take advantage of the existing training organisations in boating. I hope that we will take a decision on such a proposal when we vote on this report. There is a majority in favour of it, and that is something that we in the Left Party have, among other things, highlighted. Madam President, I would like There is a second announcement to which I would like to draw the attention of Parliament and the House. Here we are debating licences for watercraft. But when you look a little closer at the issue, it is not simply to define exactly what a jet ski is. It's progressing pretty fast. What is defined here and today as a jet ski may not be tomorrow or next year. Basically, we need a requirement for driving licences for all high-speed vehicles that can be driven by sea. We also agree on this in the report. We want a technology-neutral definition for high-speed vehicles at sea, and we want them to be subject to driving licence requirements. The exact speed at which it will apply may be allowed to return to the government. We in the Left Party believe that the border should be drawn somewhere at 20 - 25 knots, in other words, approximately 50 - 60 kilometers per hour. We also believe that it is important that this proposal should be presented without delay to the demand for a licence for watercraft that we are now debating. Let us take a broader approach and ensure that all high-speed water vehicles are subject to driving licence requirements. In this way we can get better order and find out about the lake. In this way, life will be saved. In this way, we will also protect wildlife and marine life. This is threatened by watercraft driving in areas where, among other things, seabirds breed. Madam President, I would like It's good that this is finally coming. But it should have gone much faster.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-34	Madam President, I would like Summer's here now. With it hopefully awaits leave and more opportunities to be outdoors in our beautiful country. Maybe it will be in the woods, in town, on the beach or at sea – who knows? In the summer there are many of us who appreciate the proximity to our waters. One element that has been much discussed in recent years and especially in the summer is the use of watercraft. They are often used for pleasure driving, not infrequently in the vicinity of our ports and bathing areas. Unfortunately, however, in recent years we have also seen a lot of nasty accidents where drivers sometimes turn out to have a lack of boating experience. If the watercraft is driven inappropriately, protected coastal areas as well as wildlife, such as birds, breeding and other things, can also be damaged. In order to increase safety at sea and to see fewer accidents, as well as to avoid watercraft becoming a disturbing factor, a proposal for a licence for watercraft has been discussed for some time. There are many who have exercised about it at different levels, ranging from C-Haglund Haglund in the Social Democrats at home in Gothenburg to my Gothenburg Parliamentary Committees Gunilla Carlsson and Mattias Jonsson and a number of other athletes representing different parties in this Chamber. Furthermore, for information, the Riksdag has already issued an announcement on the very issues we are debating today. And the law now presented by the government is balanced, necessary and wise. Madam President, I would like The purpose of the bill on driving licences for jet skis that is now on the table for the Riksdag to handle is, as I said, to ensure that jet skis are used in an environmentally friendly and safe way. The provision on driving licences, checks and penalties is proposed to enter into force on 1 May 2022. The provisions on licences for trainers, the content of the training and the issue of driving licences are proposed to enter into force as early as 1 July 2021. In this way, the law is implemented in two stages. During one year from the entry into force of the driver attestation requirement, persons who already have, inter alia, a driver attestation for recreational craft shall be able to obtain a licence for watercraft without having to undergo training. That's the idea. I can mention something more about what the law contains. As we have already heard, the driver must have reached the age of 15 and have completed a training course for driving licences with approved results. The training must contain both theoretical and practical elements. The focus of the training should of course be on both safety issues and environmental and natural life considerations. If someone drives a jet ski without a driver's certificate, a fine should be up to date. Exemptions from the requirement shall be applicable to public authorities and may, for obvious reasons, include civil protection. In order to complete the training, a licence shall be required. There shall also be some supervision of the activities. Authorisation to carry out the training shall be granted to legal persons who are in a position to do so. We Social Democrats believe, for example, that it is reasonable to leave the task to such actors as the NFB, the Board for Boating Education, as has been mentioned here. We would like them to be involved in this responsibility. Ideal associations can, as we know, constitute legal entities. If they meet the requirements, they will be able to obtain a licence to train watercraft for driving licences. There will also be a register of drivers' certificates. After completion of the training, the driver of the scooter must carry both his driving licence and a valid identity document. According to the proposal, the licence will be issued by the Swedish Transport Agency. We believe that this is a reasonable order, even from a legal certainty perspective. It is also important to mention that the law should cover all watercraft, whether they are powered by an electric motor or an internal combustion engine. The government has thus chosen to adapt the definition of jet skis in such a way that both types of engines are covered. This is, of course, important. It is also something that has been put forward in this House by other parties, which will debate this issue further later. We note that, in today's debate and on the basis of the report, there will be a desire to extend the law further, so that fast-track recreational craft are also covered by the legislation. However, I would like to point out that there are some differences between watercraft and high speed motorboats. Among other things, access to these motorboats is often a little more limited. There is also a slight difference in how they are used. It is usually more experienced drivers who drive the high speed motorboats. It should also be remembered that boats are sometimes used for vital daily solutions, such as the daily transport solution, so to speak, for transportation to everything from housing to school and health care. At the moment, we in the Socialist Group believe that there are insufficient grounds for introducing eligibility requirements for high-speed recreational craft other than watercraft. Madam President, I would like As I have said, many people have asked for the introduction of the Law on driving licences for jet skis. We see it as important that the law is now implemented as quickly as possible. Of course, there will be reason to evaluate it a little later. As early as December this year, for example, the Swedish Transport Agency, on behalf of the Government, will evaluate the age limit previously introduced in 15 years, which we heard the previous speaker, Mr Holm, talk about. Due to the said age limit, which was introduced in 2019, and this proposal for a licence, which will eventually be clubbed, the announcement previously made by the Riksdag against the Government will be deemed to have been finalised. I would like to conclude, in the run-up to the forthcoming debate, by calling for reservation 2 on the scope of the law, reservation 3 on training activities and reservation 4 on licence holders, according to the reasons set out in this speech. All the reservations I mentioned and which I have called for are common to the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Otherwise, I would like to support the proposal concerning the remainder of the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU12 Driver's certificate for jet skis. It feels good that the law will hopefully be in place as soon as possible. Having said that, I would like to take this opportunity to wish all Members and everyone who listens to the debate a really nice and wonderful summer.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-48	Madam President, I would like In my hand, I have a memorandum from the government. It is dated 7 December 2020 and is called Driver's Certificate for watercraft. In this memorandum, the government is proposing exactly the same thing that we are debating now, namely that there should be a requirement for driver's certificates to drive jet skis and that this should enter into force on 15 July 2021. It was a memo, not a bill. Then the government has also developed a bill. The content is almost identical, but with a big difference. According to the bill, this will not enter into force on 15 July 2021, i.e. this summer, but only next summer, 2022, as Johan Büser explained. I would like to ask Johan Büser: what happened between 7 December and spring 2021? Why could you not come forward with a proposal that will come into force this summer? I have a second question. We all know that jet skis have an engine capacity of 200 - 300 horsepower, and that they can go over 100 kilometres per hour. According to proposals by the Socialist Government, an age limit of 15 years has been introduced for these vehicles. Does Johan Büser think that 15 years is a reasonable age limit for a 300-horsepower vehicle that can be driven at a speed of 130 kilometres per hour?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-51	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Holm for the question. As I said in the speaker's chair, we are very pleased to be able to present this legislation now. As always, it is not difficult to tell what to do. The hard and important thing is to actually do it, to get things done. If you want to get legislation in place that is sensible, good and reasonable, you have to make your views known. We have any future training providers who may be involved. Of course, it sometimes takes time to come up with legislation. So does Mr Holm. I am proud of the legislation we have. I think it is wise and balanced that we should put it in two parts. We start by getting the training in place. These steps are already being implemented this year. Next year we get the licence, so you can start training on the spot. It is also reasonable to have time to adjust and prepare for this, because it is a new situation, when a driver's certificate has previously been lacking. In 2019 we introduced the age limit of 15 years. It didn't exist before. We have listened to what Parliament has said in the announcements that have been made. The Social Democrats think that is reasonable. We think the government has done a good job with legislative proposals. The age limit of 15 years is introduced relatively recently, 2019. It shall be evaluated by the Swedish Transport Agency, and the evaluation shall be presented on 1 December. About that, we're thinking.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-54	Madam President, I would like I still don't understand this. In December, it is proposed that the requirement for driving licences should enter into force by summer 2021. People are thinking: Finally we get some order on the lake! Then it won't be like that. Why? I interpret Johan Büser's reply as saying that Johan Büser and the Social Democrats think that 15 years is a balanced age limit for a vehicle that can be driven at 130 kilometres per hour. I wonder: in what other context would we allow it? In presenting this proposal, I do not understand why we are not also taking the opportunity to raise the age limit, so that we get the same age limit on the lake as on the land, namely 18 years.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-56	Madam President, I would like This is a major step we are taking, because there was no regulation before. We introduced an age limit of 15 in 2019. Now comes this legislation, which we are implementing in several stages this year and next year. It will be an important change that contributes to increased maritime safety and more attention to ports, bathing areas and our wildlife, which both I and Mr Holm are passionate about. The question of age will need to be assessed. We will receive a report on this from the Swedish Transport Agency on 1 December this year. Then, of course, we're ready to take a new hold. It may apply to definitions as well as age limits and other things. Of course, if you need to take new steps, we are prepared to do so. However, in the proposal we have here today, it is 15 years that apply. It'll be a driver's certificate. The training providers can start planning for this. Next year we will have complete legislation in place. I'm looking forward to that. I think it is good and important that these steps have been taken for a safer environment at sea.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-58	Madam President, I would like Today, when we are discussing regulations around watercraft, government and opposition are in fact in complete agreement on the problem picture. Watercraft are fast craft on water that are often driven by people who have little habit of the lake and who lack education. They can enter shallow waters, that is, in areas where unprotected people swim and play. Apart from being an irritation, there is a risk of serious accidents, and there are statistics that unfortunately they have occurred. Normally, we Moderates are not the main drivers of new regulations, and especially when it comes to boating. It is in view of the fact that boating means great freedom for people and the opportunity to get out into nature. But when it comes to watercraft, we cannot turn a blind eye to the problems that exist. Today we have an unregulated situation in Swedish waters. Those who drive watercraft need to know how to behave on the lake. Today they can drive as fast as possible without any training at all. Now, unfortunately, we are going towards another summer without any demands on those who drive jet skis. This means that we have people out there who drive around on our beaches among bathing and playing children with no idea of how to behave on the lake. We need new legislation. We really needed it to be in place by this summer. But we agree that new legislation is needed. The government managed to see the problem picture and then completely ignore the consultation bodies and their comments on shortcomings in the proposals it makes. The legislation proposed by the government risks being out of date before it even enters into force and risks not solving the problems we see in Swedish waters. There are already well-developed training activities in the case of Swedes who voluntarily take driver's certificates for boat traffic. That could have been a very good foundation to stand on. Private operators have also shown interest in the possibility of being able to train for the new licence. In other words, there is a very good tradition to build on and give mandates requiring the new stricter compulsory driver attestations. In addition, a solution based on the existing driver attestation organisation could have been launched already this year. We would like to see modern legislation that solves the actual problems in Swedish waters. It needs to be technologically neutral, and it is reasonable to link the legislation to speed. That is where the problems lie. People drive too fast without keeping track of the rules on the lake. There is a great risk that the legislation will not get the desired result. Therefore, we Moderates have called for an evaluation to be carried out fairly quickly after it has been introduced to ensure that the problems we see are addressed. The law proposed by the government is based on length and technology. For the purposes of this Act, the bill states that ‘watercraft' means a watercraft whose hull length is less than four metres and which has a water jet unit as the main source of propulsion and is designed to be operated by one or more persons seated, standing or kneeling on the hull rather than in the craft'. There are quite a few points of view on this very narrow definition. First of all, the watercraft industry says that there will be jet skis longer than four metres. One can also imagine that it is starting to sell s special extension parts that are put on an existing jet ski so that it becomes over four meters. Then it can be run without a licence. Secondly, many watercraft that are entering the market will be powered by electricity. The electric watercrafts will have propellers, as the industry says, and not water jets. This means that the legislation does not apply to them either. Thirdly, all other water vehicles will be able to operate unregulated at high speed and anywhere. It is still the case that this legislation is at risk of being a blow to the air, or perhaps one should say a blow to the water, without having any significant effect. What should be proposed instead? A majority in the committee agrees that it is important that it is technologically neutral and that legislation is linked to speed and not to the design of the vehicle itself. It is important that people who go out on the lake know how to behave and what rules apply. If you are driving at high speed out on the lake, it is important that you have a driver's certificate where you have to prove that you know what it takes. Then you can handle risks, and you know where to drive. To sum up, the legislation risks being inadequate and out-of-date when it enters into force on 1 July 2022. If the government had done its job properly, we could have had a united parliament that solved a major problem and perhaps reduced the accidents already this year. There are reasonably no ideological tensions on this or issues where, for that matter, we do not agree. The government, through negligence and inability, has managed to create a conflict on an issue in which we really agree. It's actually kind of sad. It is gratifying that in the parliamentary work of the committee we have a majority in favour of making changes to the legislation so that it can be more effective. Three whole announcements to the government are proposed in this report. This means that we only have one reservation to ask for, and that is reservation number 6.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-74	Madam President, I would like In 2015, the Riksdag announced to the Government the need to introduce driver's certificates and age limits for the performance of watercraft. It was 2015, Madam President. Try it! Today is 2021. It has taken the government six years to draft this bill. Of course, you can respect the fact that it's being investigated. It shouldn't be wrong when you introduce new laws and rules. But the funny thing – or rather the tragic thing – is that new announcements have been made on the bill presented by the government, because according to the Transport Committee the proposal from the government was not up to date. For example, we want the introduction of a technology-neutral mandatory driver attestation linked to speed. For example, we Swedish democrats believe that 35 knots would have been a good speed. It is a speed of about 65 kilometers per hour. It should apply to all craft. The second is that existing education should be able to continue training so that, as previous speakers have said, it does not invent the wheel again, but that it goes very quickly. Madam President, I would like Maritime safety is very important, and it has always been. During the pandemic, we have also seen that there has been enormous pressure on the sale of boats and other floating structures. It is no wonder that it has become more popular to buy a boat and stay in the archipelago or further out to sea. Since it is no longer possible to travel abroad, a lot of people have chosen to buy a boat and a holiday at home. Those who walk in boat buyers' tanks and have read on know that it is very difficult to get a boat seat in some parts of the country. There you can wait up to ten years or more for a berth. Those who have done their homework and know that it is difficult to get a berth but still want a water-going vehicle can choose to buy a smaller boat or a watercraft that you with trailer can drive into the water via a ramp. Later when you are ready for the day you can load it on the trailer and drive it home again when there are no berths. The committee reacted already in 2015 to the need for a review of maritime safety and the over-representation of accidents involving watercraft. Every summer there are nasty accidents with fast-moving boats and watercraft. Driving a fast - moving boat or jet ski cannot be likened to road traffic. It lurks a lot of dangers in the water: shallows, pots and marks that are placed. Those with sea habits can easily navigate past these obstacles, but for those who do not have sea habits the accident can be a fact. The committee has chosen to include fast-moving floating gear and not just watercraft in this bill. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have opposed this. They claim that the construction is different. Here I must give the Social Democrats and the Green Party the right. Yes, a boat is a boat, and a watercraft is a watercraft. But when you specify what a jet ski looks like in law, the manufacturers – and they have already made it possible – will easily be able to modify the watercraft so that it looks like a boat. Moreover, today there are boats with jets that are not much larger than a jet ski, and these can be run at terrible speeds. Madam President, I would like Then let us not forget that those who drive fast boats are not particularly protected. If you drive on a foundation at high speed, it will be a quick stop. You can easily kill yourself. We are absolutely not against either fast boats or watercraft. Of course you should drive fast. You should be able to go water skiing, jump on waves or just transport your way quickly. But it should be done with knowledge and judgment. Madam President, I would like We are in favour of reservation 7 and otherwise of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-83	Madam President, I would like For a long time there has been irritation among traditional boat tourists and bathers regarding jet skis that travel at high speed near other boats or persons who swim. It is therefore positive that there will now be a regulation aimed at making those who drive these vehicles behave more correctly and safely. At the same time, the government chooses solutions that do not match the tradition of shipping. KD therefore supports the committee's three proposals for announcements on a technology-neutral mandatory driver's certificate, to enable the existing training organisation of boating and other external actors to train and examine for driver's certificates, and to give boating's existing training organisation and other external actors offering training and examination the opportunity to issue driver's certificates. Madam President, I would like While we are now reviewing the law on driving licences for jet skis, we should be aware that there are more and more boats designed in such a way that they can be driven at a very high speed. We have therefore pointed out the need for a more general review of the need for driver's certificates for ships at relatively high speeds. We do not believe that mandatory practical elements should be included in the training for the new licence for jet skis. One reason for this is that the practical elements do not, as a rule, pose a problem. On the contrary, these people often seem to have good knowledge of how to drive the vehicle itself. However, there is a lack of sea sweat and respect for other people in or on the water. Another reason to refrain from practical training is that it is highly cost-driven. At the same time, it is unlikely to contribute to any substantial contribution in education itself. Madam President, I would like We support the announcements proposed in the report. We also support our own reservations, but for the benefit of time we only ask for reservation number 9.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-88	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the reservations of the Social Democrats and the Green Party – reservations 2, 3 and 4. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report. Water-skiing has continuously increased over time. And it has been a growing problem that I think those who swim and those who live by lakes and streams have noticed, not least on the coast. Of course, it can be exciting to drive a fast vehicle on water, where there are apparently no restrictions. But it also has a number of negative effects and consequences. This is particularly true of the risk of serious accidents and of disturbances in the environment, nature and wildlife. It is also, as I said, about the disturbances that people experience – people who swim or who live by water or who transport themselves on water. So far, there has been no requirement for driver's certificates or training to drive jet skis, even though it is a vehicle that can get up at really high speeds, over 100 kilometres per hour. The only thing required is for the driver to be at least 15 years old. That is why the government has now put forward a proposal for a new law on driving licences for jet skis. That's very positive. The requirements for driving licences are that the driver must have reached the age of 15, as before, and must have completed training with both theoretical and practical elements with an approved result. Derogations from this requirement could be found, for example, in the activities of state authorities and in civil protection. But otherwise the licence would apply. It could also be withdrawn if the holder has been guilty of, for example, sea-filling or negligence in maritime traffic or if the holder has violated the maritime rules or carried out a jet ski in certain areas where it is not permitted. So there is a possibility of sanctions when you have a licence. Like I said, the watercraft drive has increased. There is no reliable data on the number of jet skis, but it is estimated that the number is around 12,000. It is not surprising, then, that the problems of water-skiing are perceived as extensive. Already today, a watercraft driver is subject to certain laws, such as the Maritime Act, the Ship Safety Act and the Maritime Traffic Regulation. They regulate how maritime traffic is to be conducted in general. But I suspect that the 16-year-old – or 23-year-old, 35-year-old or 45-year-old – who sits on a jet ski for the first time and will try to drive a little on vacation does not fully know what the legislation means and what it means in terms of responsibility and good seamanship. Therefore, the requirement for training and driver's certificates is very welcome. This will lead to a better knowledge of the people who drive jet skis. The training shall be conducted with a special focus on safety and with regard to the environment and nature. At the same time, I would like to say that we in the Green Party are no stranger to taking further action should it be necessary to change the behaviour of those who drive jet skis. We think it is very important that road safety, the environment and nature are taken into account in all forms of transport. In the light of the discussions that have taken place in the past, I note that we in the Green Party would have liked to have seen this introduced as soon as possible. A balance has now been struck on the part of the government. It has been decided that the specific parts relating to the training, trainers, the content of the training and the issuing of licences should enter into force on 1 July 2021 and that the provisions concerning the licence should enter into force on 1 May 2022. There will therefore be a gradual introduction of the legislation. I also look forward to following the evaluation based on a government commission to the Swedish Transport Agency, which will evaluate the age limit of 15. This shall come on 1 December 2021. In this connection, I have called for the committee's proposal to introduce legislation to be approved, but I have also called for the three reservations put forward by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I am also clear that I am open to tightening up the law if necessary in the future.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-99	Madam President, I would like There was an announcement in 2015 about driving licences for jet skis, but it will take six years, maybe seven or eight years, before it becomes a reality. I actually have my own licence, which I took because I could and because I have an interest in shipping. I wanted to get a little deeper knowledge of how to act on the lake. I don't own a boat, but I want the knowledge. In the past, there have not really been demands for driver's certificates, but there has been an opportunity for people to learn more about sea life. There has been no use to the driver's certificate, except for the knowledge. In practical terms, the licence has not concerned anything. Madam President, I would like I was going to ask the honourable Member why they oppose driving licences for fast-moving boats. The committee has concluded that even fast-moving boats should be included in the licence. Today there are water jets that do the same terrible speeds. To take the driver's certificate, you will learn how to act, who has priority, what the difference is between motorboat and sailboat in the fairways, how to act, what dangers there are and how to plan your route before travelling. It is rarely on a jet ski or on the fast boats there is a plotter where the depths are visible and so on. Madam President, I would like Why do the government parties not want to introduce licences for high-speed vehicles?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-104	Madam President, I would like As you know, it takes time for the legislative mills to grind. I am the first to say that in many cases I wish they could grind a little faster. But that is precisely why I am pleased that today we are in the process of deciding on legislation on driving licences for watercraft. As has been explained earlier, including by my Socialist colleague Johan Büser, there are some differences between watercraft and other types of recreational craft and boats. Although there are boats that drive really fast – Mr Ståhl mentioned water jets – in this situation they have chosen to focus on the jets, which are popular for pleasure driving, especially among people who do not otherwise have a relation to boating or water that many who have a slightly larger, real boat have. In fact, there is nothing to prevent you from going further and looking at a further extension of driver's certificates, but at this point in time it has chosen to go forward with legislation that specifically includes driver's certificates for watercraft. I would think it's a slightly larger process if you're going to look at a more general driver's certificate that applies to several types of boats. As I have mentioned before, I think that such measures can be considered in cases where they are needed. It is about ensuring that there is safety at sea and taking into account wildlife and nature. At the moment, I am pleased that we have a proposal for legislation on driving licences.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-107	Madam President, I would like The introduction of driver's certificates for fast-moving boats would have been easy. Licences are not new, they have existed for a long time. It would have been easy to include requirements for driving licences for fast-moving boats in the legislation. I'm glad the government has come to the fore with a bill. During the pandemic, we have seen that the government can be quick to come forward with legislative proposals. You don't have to drag the proposals in the long way. We know that it is possible to introduce legislation more quickly. I am still surprised that fast-moving ships have not been included. The problem today is that with the lack of berths it becomes more and more common to buy small fast-moving boats and even watercraft that you put on trailers and use for day trips. Many of those who are used to sea live in the archipelago with their ships and boats, and they do not have the incredibly fast boats and water jets that you go around with in everyday life. For example, 35 knots correspond to 65 kilometers per hour. Jens Holm cited earlier speeds up to 100 - 130 kilometers per hour. These are monstrous engines on water jets and also on regular boats. You're not protected in a boat. There are often no seat belts, airbags and more. That's why you're cruelly exposed in a boat. If you get a quick stop and go into the steering wheel, you break your stomach, your kidneys, and so on. I wish these issues had been included.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-111	Madam President, I would like I can understand the concern that Mr Ståhl has about fast-moving craft on water and the risks that exist for those who drive such a vehicle. However, I would also like to point out the risks that they pose to seafarers, bathing and swimming people, children and young people, wildlife and nature. They are also disturbed by the performance of such craft. We note that at this point the government has chosen to bring forward legislation relating to licences for jet skis. There has been a particular problem with watercraft drivers, and many who drive such vehicles are unaccustomed to being on the lake. Then we have chosen to go forward with legislation in this area. At the same time, however, I am no stranger to moving forward in the future with driver's certificates for additional types of vehicles brought to sea, to the extent necessary for road safety, for respect for animal and natural life and for the environment. At this point, I am pleased that we have come up with legislation that introduces a licence for jet skis and that there will be training for those who are going to put a jet ski on the lake. The focus shall be on road safety and respect for animal and natural life. That is something for which we should be grateful because it has been a major problem. Hopefully it will have good effects. But I am no stranger to taking further action if necessary.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-115	Madam President, I would like Interest in watercraft and small boats has increased greatly in recent years. Having a boat and jet ski has become an active popular movement. With watercraft there are also several events and competitions around the country. Now that this type of vessel has become so popular, one must also be able to handle it with understanding and respect. Several years ago, the Parliament issued an announcement to the government to introduce licences for watercraft, which the Center Party welcomed. In this way, training on safety, the environment, and more can be better known among those who travel on these craft. The bill submitted by the Government to the Riksdag has examined the licence for watercraft. In the report that we are now debating, a majority of the parliamentary parties have also obtained that the driver's certificate to be introduced should be technologically neutral. It is important to link the licence to several types of craft, but it is also extremely important to link it to speed. The Center Party therefore supports the announcements to the government proposed in the report. We think it is important that the educational bodies that are training today should continue to do so. However, we would like to point out the importance of the fact that it is precisely speed that we should have a great deal of focus on. A small plastic boat or oak that travels at very low speeds should of course not need a driver's certificate for. This is an industry where technology development is very fast, and new vehicles are coming all the time. It is therefore a good thing that the report has been broadened and also includes fast boats and watercraft of several different models. This is basically about safety at sea, both for people in front of the vehicle and for people who ride along but also for people around in other vehicles and along the road, for example on beaches. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would just like to say that the Center Party supports the announcements proposed in the report.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-124	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report TU12 Licence for watercraft. I agree with the committee's proposal and also with my special opinion, which points out that the Liberals would have preferred the new law to apply as early as this summer. But now we are where we are, and so we support this law so that it is in place as soon as possible and not delayed further. Watercraft have an important role to play in the exercise of authority of various kinds and as work tools along the coasts. Watercraft are a good addition to smaller boats, for example because they can be used to access less accessible parts of the coast. However, the majority of today's watercraft is used for pleasure skiing, also close to land where many other people are. We also see younger and younger drivers of the jet skis. In recent years we have seen an increase in the number of watercraft accidents, together with non-compliance with environmental legislation. The Coast Guard also notes that many drivers drive jet skis in a way that shows that they have poor boating experience. Madam President, I would like In 2015, we announced to the government in the Riksdag that we wanted to see a driver's certificate and an age limit for driving jet skis. It would be until 2019 before the government introduced an age limit of 15 years. In the meantime, as I said, the number of watercraft has increased dramatically. There are currently 12 000 watercrafts in Sweden. At the same time, approximately 75 000 people are expected to drive jet skis. As the government did not heed the whole announcement from 2015 I exercised last autumn that a driver's certificate should be introduced as soon as possible so that training could be carried out in the spring and the driver's licence requirement introduced by summer 2021. One of the reasons I was exercising was that we had a very tragic accident in my municipality last summer that shook the whole community. These driver's certificates are really needed. It is good that there is now a bill on Parliament's table. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the person in front of a jet ski has sufficient competence to do so in a safe and environmentally friendly manner. In addition to understanding how a watercraft behaves in different situations, you should be aware of the parts of the Maritime Act, the Ship Safety Act and the Maritime Traffic Regulation that apply to watercraft. The Liberals believe, as I said, that it is important that the law should apply as soon as possible, and that is why we support the proposal that is on the table with Parliament today. However, I believe that the proposal could have been made more technology neutral. The proposal is limited to watercraft under four metres powered by a water jet unit. This definition risks becoming obsolete even before it is introduced in one year's time. According to the industry, jet skis are now being developed over four meters. We also heard previous speakers mention the fact that one can easily extend one's watercraft by a few inches with any accessory, the law does not apply. In the transition to electric motors, there are concepts that combine the electric motor with propellers. Then the vehicle is not a jet ski under this law. I believe that the proposal is not technologically neutral enough, and I have supported the proposed announcement that a licence should be introduced that is linked to the speed of certain craft. I hope that the government can get to grips with this as soon as possible. Today, as I said, there are some 75 000 watercraft drivers. If we are going to have time to educate them by next summer, it is important that we use the organisations that already exist, such as the Board for boating education, which has long experience. We believe that these organisations should be able to train, examine and also issue driver's certificates after issuing a watercraft training permit. Through the implementation of the whole process by the same organisation, a high level of efficiency can be achieved. Instead of identifying an authority for issuing driving licences, the government should designate an authority to supervise the training organisations that can issue driving licences. In this way, our authorities are not burdened as much, and we have an opportunity to issue driver's certificates to anyone who now wants to train by the summer of 2022. With this in mind, I agree with the proposals for announcements that external training actors should be given the opportunity to train, examine and also issue driving licences. These proposals for announcements have found a majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and I think that is very positive. It is my hope that it will not be another six years before the government updates the law that is being presented today. Then we can close the technical loopholes created by the law and facilitate the whole process for those who want to obtain a licence in a smooth way.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-140	Madam President, I would like The train is an amazing means of transport. It is efficient, and if the train is powered by fossil-free electricity, it is also a climate-smart way to travel. Rail travel, both regional and long-distance, has also been affected by the pandemic. But now we can all hopefully see a light in the train tunnel with more and more being vaccinated so that we can start travelling as usual again. Swedish railway has a lot of challenges, challenges that we as politicians need to address. It's cramped on the tracks in some places. This affects not least the possibilities of commuting to work but also the possibilities of sending goods by rail. New tracks are needed, and we need to complement, optimize and, above all, maintain what we have. We have a large maintenance debt, and the risk is that it will increase if we do not invest more in maintaining our common facilities. There is a long wish list of railway projects, and our task will be to prioritise. In what order should we implement the projects? Then it is important that we have good data, and an important parameter to look at is socio-economic profitability. It needs to weigh more heavily, because it shows which projects provide the best currency for our tax money. If we take care of them, we must ensure that we have good calculations so that we can put the socio-economic profitability high when prioritising between different projects. Madam President, I would like The project that deals most with oxygen in the railway debate is surely the issue of high-speed trains. The price tag is just rising, and the time when the track will be ready will be pushed to the future. The Swedish National Audit Office has strongly criticised the government's planning of high-speed trains because it has completely departed from the guidelines we agree on should apply when prioritising between different projects. The idea is that we should first identify the shortcomings that exist and then use the so-called four-step principle, which we agree will apply; we have even made a decision on that in the Riksdag. This means that one should first look at how to increase, i.e. improve, capacity utilisation. The next step is to optimize and trim the plant. Then you should supplement and when it is not enough build new. In the case of high-speed trains, they have chosen to skip step one to three and go directly to new construction. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes in its report that high-speed trains are not economically profitable; we do not get currency for tax money. In view of the speed of technological development and the new means of transport, one might also wonder what the transport sector will look like when the high-speed rail lines are completed. The risk is that we will get a new Göta Canal, i.e. something that will only become a tourist attraction. The faster the development towards fossil freedom takes place in all modes of transport, the less relevant the climate-related arguments for high-speed trains become. When the high-speed rail lines are completed, they have built up a large climate debt during the construction period, and the idea is that this debt should be paid off by people choosing out cars and flights and taking the train. But if the means of transport are fossil-free, the debt simply cannot be paid off. We Moderates want to see an investment in Swedish rail across the country – an investment focusing on socio-economic benefits, building on what we have, building off bottlenecks and increasing the capacity of our existing network. There are initiatives such as Stockholm – Oslo, where we should take the next step together with Norway. There is an opportunity to almost halve the journey time between our capitals. Oslo – Stockholm should also be a project where you could try some form of alternative funding or user funding. Something we also want to see to increase capacity is both longer and heavier trains, which can be achieved considerably faster than building new rails. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe in diversity and healthy competition. Swedish railways are still characterised by the monopoly of previous decades. We see this, for example, when it comes to the allocation of track times in peak traffic and difficulties for consumers to book tickets from different companies. Monopoly has been abolished, but the structures continue to exist. This is unfortunate. Sound competition drives development and benefits the consumer with lower prices and greater accessibility. In addition to path allocation, custody and signalling systems, the question of availability of ticketing is important. The investigation into a national ticketing system is completed and the consultation round is also completed, and we will have reason to come back to that issue. This does not only apply to Sweden. The EU has worked to facilitate the booking of train tickets but does not seem to be reaching the end of the proposal drawn up. It should be as easy to book a train ticket via an app or online as it is to book flights via e.g. airresor.se and similar applications. Today, SJ's platform dominates the sale of train tickets, and it does not make it easier for consumers that there is no platform that sells all operators' tickets on equal terms. It should be easy to choose the train and not require a major project to sew up tickets. Madam President, I would like We must ensure that we optimise the use of the rail we have. Measures are needed to prevent unauthorised persons from running on the tracks. It is about higher fines and better protection around the plants. There is also a need for penalties for train operators booking paths that they do not use. Madam President, I would like There is one question concerning rail but also other infrastructure investments that we Moderates see as one of the biggest challenges ahead: to ensure that the money we spend on maintenance and also new construction is actually spent as efficiently as possible. In April 2015, researcher Gunnar Alexandersson gave up a partial report called Koll at the plant. For anyone who is afraid of taxpayers' money, I can tell you that it can give nightmares to read this investigation – nightmares about how much of our tax money disappears in black holes without sufficient control. In April 2015, the investigation concluded that the Swedish Transport Administration lacks systems to have knowledge of the status of the railway. Without such knowledge, it is not possible to make good procurements. It was also noted that there was a lack of a national maintenance plan and that there were no procedures for monitoring the maintenance contracts signed. In October 2020, i.e. five years after the report was presented, the Swedish National Audit Office produced a report that clearly showed that all of these shortcomings still exist. The investigation by Alexandersson never led to a bill; it was put in a drawer. Instead, this government set up an ideologically coloured investigation with an S-marked investigator who would investigate how railway maintenance should be nationalised, i.e. put under the Swedish Transport Administration. Alexandersson's investigation makes it very clear that this is not the way to go – that is not where the problems lie. The main shortcomings lie in the fact that there is no control at the plant, and this needs to be addressed first. I read a paragraph from the preliminary investigation: with regard to the knowledge about the facility and the planning of measures, which is central to the Finnish Transport Administration's ability to take responsibility for maintenance. Nothing suggests that a simultaneous change in the form that the Finnish Transport Administration would perform all or part of the maintenance in its own direction would help the Swedish Transport Administration to overcome the problems identified. ..................................................... In the final report Alexandersson writes about the great need for reorganisation and streamlining of working methods at Trafikverket. The final report was also placed in a drawer – the investigation did not result in any proposal. We Moderates see this as deeply irresponsible of this government. I have gone through regulatory letters and assignments to the Finnish Transport Administration and cannot see that the government anywhere shows that this extremely serious criticism is being taken seriously. It is fully focused on renationalising rail maintenance for ideological reasons rather than ensuring that the 41⁄2 billion per year spent on maintenance is actually useful on the rail. What is most economically profitable of all is to invest in maintenance. It creates better conditions for commuting people to come to work and get home to pick up children from preschool. Well-maintained railways are a prerequisite for companies to dare to send time-critical goods by rail. If we do not get this billion dollar roll down in a black hole, as many actors point out, we are risking jobs and growth throughout the country. This government needs to tackle the real problems and not be blinded by ideological blindings in the belief that we alone are nationalising maintenance, we are solving the problems. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but today we choose only to agree to reservation number 1.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-165	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats are behind all our motions, but I only support reservation 2, which deals with the strengthening of the operation and maintenance of railways and the readmission of certain maintenance under the control of the Finnish Transport Agency itself. Madam President, I would like We are faced with a decision next week on the appropriations for the infrastructure sector for the next twelve-year period. It is proposed to increase substantially, in particular for the rail section. At the same time, we struggle with more money going to administration and an increasingly smaller proportion to direct maintenance of tracks. As you will hopefully recall, on several occasions in this speaker's chair I have raised the problems of railway contractors, where several smaller companies went bankrupt when the Swedish Transport Administration drastically stopped a large number of projects in autumn 2019. This resulted in mass redundancies, where a few hundred were given notice and a couple of hundred were dismissed – this in an industry where previously 3,700 were active and there are now 300 – 400 fewer employees working to build and maintain the Swedish railway. Since this battle of manslaughter, the industry has been a waste of time. Now there are again several companies standing at the edge of ruin. You risk bankruptcy or closure. There are two main reasons. For a job without dispute, the time to get paid has gone from an average of one month to now about two months. This plays a major role for smaller companies. However, it is not uncommon for the entrepreneur and the Finnish Transport Administration to disagree on whether a job is done correctly. Previously, the Finnish Transport Administration then paid out the amount of work done in good time. For about a year, however, the entire payment to the companies has often been withheld. This is directly devastating. So money is withheld which has nothing to do with the dispute and more often chooses to take a legal dispute instead of solving the problems as before in agreement with the entrepreneurs. This has, for example, affected the company Infraservice. The company has performed a job for 82 million, connection times have been followed and the traffic has been released according to plan, but a dispute about ÄTA work prevails. The Finnish Transport Administration was in dispute about this and chose to hold back the full amount of the work done. As a result, the company had to undergo a reorganisation, and 25 of the company's approximately 40 employees had to be dismissed. I have taken note of other examples where the Swedish Transport Administration has made changes to a signed contract and does not want to pay for the changes even though as a client you have changed the order after the contract has been signed. In the way that the Swedish Transport Administration now acts, the companies are severely affected. There are many examples where companies cannot pay wages but have to dismiss employees, close down or go bankrupt. The second reason why we will soon have no external railway contractors left is that the Swedish Transport Administration is no longer putting out any work. This affects not only small operators but also medium-sized companies such as Infranord, Strukton and others. Why is there a mystery to me: where does the increase in funding go? Common jobs such as extremity changes, slip changes, component changes, inspection measures and the welding of gears are no longer laid out, even though the need for them has increased rather than decreased over time. Where's the money going? Another example from reality is the Signal Company, which before the pandemic had 18 track welds. By the time the pandemic came, the number had fallen to 13. As you will remember, I told you about the autumn of 2019. Now you're down on two track welds. Then remember that track welders are a shortage profession and take a long time to educate. Where are they going? Well, they go west, more specifically to our neighbour Norway, when there is no job in Sweden. In addition to this, Trafikverket has now chosen to put in a system to merge parts of the few tenders that are submitted, so that only major international companies can bid, without this being necessary. Rather, competition is reduced as our own performers in Sweden are hardly able to take on these major projects. The question must be asked: Why is the Finnish Transport Administration acting in this way? Do you want to put away the legs for the Swedish railway contractors? Do you just want to give foreign mega players the opportunity to work on the Swedish railways? Is this how we want our Swedish authorities to act? I expect the government to give instructions to the Finnish Transport Administration to make it easier for smaller companies in the industry. In particular, I want directives to be given to the Finnish Transport Administration to pay on time for the work done. Madam President, I would like We are hopefully seeing an end to the pandemic and can soon sum up two tragic years of thousands of deaths in an premature death only in Sweden and a hard-pressed health care sector. However, during the pandemic, it has also been given the opportunity to perform better maintenance on the tracks when rail traffic has been narrower, especially at the beginning of the pandemic. Unfortunately, however, this opportunity has been missed by the government. When, after a long time, decisions were finally taken on extra money for railway maintenance, the government claimed to invest 720 million in increased railway maintenance. Of this money there was a very marginal sum of 200 million that would actually go to increased maintenance; the rest went to ordinary costs of projects and compensation for reduced track charges to the Finnish Transport Administration. And with regard to the remaining 200 million, I have not seen a single project funded with them. Nor has anyone else in the industry with whom I have spoken seen any project, but the money seems to have ended up in the big black hole of Trafikverket. I may call this a state fiasco of rank for the government. Madam President, I would like This report deals with several motion requests from the Swedish Democrats. One of the most heaviest concerns the need to strengthen the competence of the Swedish Transport Administration in terms of self-service maintenance. We also advocate that the Swedish Transport Administration should return to being a road network and a railway network. Trafikverket has lost a large part of its own competence, when the former natural career path disappeared where those who worked in the track or on the roads made a career path within the then Banverket or Vägverket. Today, there is a huge degree of consultancy dependence, a lack of own know-how, and the costs of the Swedish Transport Administration's own staff are rising by over 30% when it should instead be reduced in view of alleged synergies. This is tantamount to a mockery of Sweden's taxpayers, who spend billions in taxes and charges on the infrastructure while the maintenance debt is running out. It is therefore no wonder that the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticises substandard procurements, where the contract sum is significantly exceeded on contracts after contracts. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that the cost overrun between procured and completed contracts regarding basic maintenance for railways is on average 74 per cent. I'm not surprised. If you have not checked your facility, you can not write an adequate tender documentation, and if you have not worked in the industry, it is of course difficult to produce a correct tender documentation. It's in the nature of things. That's why the issue of maintenance in Trafikverket's own direction is so incredibly important. At the same time, we see the gain in maintaining a large share of maintenance in private order to compare, develop and maintain competition in the market. Madam President, I would like We also have a joint reservation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats about longer and heavier freight trains. Increasing the opportunity for longer and heavier freight trains certainly means a cost to the Finnish Transport Administration, but this work must nevertheless be accelerated. The profitability of freight train operators is generally poor, and it is expensive to send goods by train compared to lorries. Here transport prices could be reduced, profitability improved and more goods transferred from truck to train. We also see a need to increase both maintenance and capacity. Some of the most important routes are Ostkustbanan, which needs to be extended to double tracks for 250 kilometres an hour – with this one could basically halve the journey time – Norrbotniabanan, which must be completed all the way up to Luleå, and Sweden's most loaded single track, the one between Hässleholm and Kristianstad, which must become double-track. No less than four of the country's five hardest loaded single tracks are located in Skåne; the fifth is Alvesta – Växjö. These stretches need to be extended to double tracks. Similarly, the Hässleholm– Lund section and the Ostlink suffer from major capacity problems. You will find everything about this in our committee motion. Madam President, I would like These are much more urgent initiatives than big fanatic dreams of high-speed trains. Madam President, I would like Let me also focus on the safety of the rail system, which a large part of our committee motion is folded. More resources must be devoted to increasing safety in the rail sector. During the 2000s, between 50 and 98 people each year chose to take their own life in rail traffic. Last year the figure was 81 people and 70 trains were involved. Of course, a great deal of responsibility must be placed on psychiatry, but we must also increase the difficulty of getting to the railway area. The most common place to commit suicide is not in a station area but in more lonely areas, often close to towns and villages. With increased containment, many lives can be saved, but even with increased camera surveillance and other physical obstacles, we can reduce suicide in rail traffic. The problem of unauthorised people in tracks grows and causes thousands of late minutes, and there is a great risk of being hit by a car. Here we exercise just like the Moderates about punitive measures for illegal stay in the track area. Similarly, more resources must be devoted to reducing the number of unattended level crossings and those with only sound and light. Each year we read about collisions between trains and road vehicles, and often the outcome is fatal. There is a need to improve the protection of the train driver. Only two weeks ago, a naked woman ran amok on a local train, certainly in Denmark, and managed to kick up the door to the engineer. Even if it ended happily, it shows how easy it is to stage a train hijacking. Madam President, I would like Finally, I think it is high time for the government to wake up and deal with threats and violence against crew members. On 6 June, Mr Seko had a debate article in which the title reads: According to Seko's 2019 survey, every second member of the Seko staff replied that there were threats at the workplace on a daily or weekly basis. Threats, violence, spittoons and sexual harassment are commonplace for on-board workers. Who would have accepted it at their workplace?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-193	We have debated this before and made proposals, but nothing is done. Therefore, Madam President, I repeat Mr Seko's question: Should a train host have to die before anything is done?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-194	Madam President, I would like The railway connects the whole country and is important for the transport of people and goods.Today we are debating the railway report, and the entrances of the Center Party are as follows. Rail maintenance of state railways shall be procured on market terms. However, it is important to emphasise that the Finnish Transport Administration must have the right competence for this. The Swedish National Audit Office's report Operation and maintenance of railways points to the fact that a developed and strengthened client competence of the Swedish Transport Administration is extremely important in order to achieve higher efficiency in railway maintenance. The Center Party therefore believes that the Government should ensure that the Finnish Transport Administration makes a broad analysis of the most efficient, beneficial and productive procurement process before deciding on railway maintenance procurements. Furthermore, we believe that the government should ensure that railway maintenance of state railways continues and, on the basis of the re-regulation previously decided, is procured in competition in a market. This requires the Government to give the Swedish Transport Administration a mandate and instruction to possess the right knowledge and competence to act as an effective purchaser of maintenance services. The Centre Party would also like to draw attention to the referrals received from several actors in the rail sector in response to the report on road maintenance of the future, which was presented on 31 March 2020. We believe that these answers are a clear signal that the government has thought wrong in the parts relating to the ambition to return maintenance responsibility to the Swedish Transport Administration. We note that the coronapndemin has led to a sharp decline in traffic work for a number of different modes of transport. When extensive and long-term disturbances occur, good conditions arise for maintenance. This means that there are possibilities to perform maintenance, repairs and construction to an extent that is not possible at regular traffic flows. The time window that opens up in these cases can be better used if contracting authorities can have a more flexible regulatory framework to use.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-201	Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that it is of the utmost importance to streamline and modernise Swedish rail transport. To achieve the climate targets, freight needs to be transferred to rail and rail to a greater extent than is currently the case. One part of modernising the railways is to review and develop the signalling system. The introduction of the new Ertms signalling system requires both measures in the infrastructure and in the vehicles. The costs of the measures are divided between the Finnish Transport Administration, which is responsible for infrastructure measures, and the vehicle owners, who are responsible for the train's on-board equipment. However, train operators have raised both questions and concerns about costs and alleged benefits, such as increased capacity, with Ertms. The Center Party is aware that while the planning and preparatory work for the deployment of Ertms has been underway, the necessary reinvestments in the existing signalling system have been poor. This means that the alternative, i.e. not to introduce Ertms as a new signalling system, unfortunately no longer seems possible. However, we believe that the balance between benefits and costs in the project needs to be clarified. The costs calculated for the full-scale deployment of Ertms shall also be weighed against the costs incurred by train operators for increased track charges and in some cases for investments in new brake block systems with ceramic brakes. The Center Party would like to point to the report Commercial Risk Assessment of Ertms P impact on industry actors and their customers of the ERTMS introduction in Sweden, which a consulting company has put together on behalf of the Swedish Transport Administration. In the report, train operators express great concern about the combined risk picture of Ertms. The report notes that the introduction of the new technologies would be facilitated if authorities, industry and other stakeholders were to develop an action plan to address the risks without suffering from rail traffic. The Center Party believes that the report could be a start for a discussion on the work ahead. Against this background, we believe that the government should examine the conditions for facilitating the deployment of Ertms in terms of both state infrastructure and train operators' on-board equipment. The Center Party also believes that the Government should instruct the Swedish Transport Administration, in collaboration with other railway stakeholders, to develop an action plan for risk reduction in connection with the introduction of Ertms. We also believe that the government should examine the conditions for applying for part-financing of Ertms in the framework of the EU funding initiative. Madam President, I would like By using transport with longer and heavier trains in the Swedish rail network, it is possible to get great environmental and social benefits. Longer and heavier trains mean that spare capacity is used more optimally, that emissions of carbon dioxide, among other things, are reduced and that the competitiveness of transport-dependent industries is increased. We note that longer and heavier passenger and freight trains are also the fastest way to increase the capacity of the rail system. We are aware that longer trains require some small investments in, for example, meeting stations, bypasses and platforms, which are currently not long enough. However, the Center Party would point out that through small measures capacity can increase in a cost-effective way on Sweden's railways. We therefore believe that the Government should ensure that measures are taken to ensure, with the support of the investigations carried out and the decisions already taken, that longer and heavier trains are quickly allowed on a sufficient, functional and coherent railway network throughout Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants other fuels to be found on the rail routes where diesel locomotives are used today. This is necessary in order to reduce the remaining emissions in the rail sector. We do not believe that subsidising fossil diesel is sustainable in the long term, but the alternatives to this need to be developed and promoted. We therefore believe that the government should ensure that remaining fossil fuels in the rail sector are phased out and that the possibility of commissioning the Swedish Transport Administration to procure hydrogen trains on one or more selected routes is reviewed. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 3.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-216	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we Christian Democrats are in favour of all our reservations, but in favour of the profits of time, we are calling for reservation 1 alone. Madam President, I would like People have been communicating with each other at all times. At first, it was smaller roads, rivers and seas that tied us together. But in the 19th century we began to build railways in Europe, America and the rest of the world. These railways linked inland to the sea, contributing to increased world trade and an improved economy. The railway also helped people and ideas to move over ever longer distances. Steam locomotives, steamboats and telegraph changed the world. Even today, we see how the railways connect people. We have national and regional operators who drive trains throughout Sweden. Thousands of people commute daily with trains and other rail traffic, long-distance trains transport passengers between all our major cities and freight trains cross our beautiful, elongated country. The railway is an important part of the Swedish infrastructure, and we want to make investments that make it easier for labour market regions and freight transport. Madam President, I would like According to a report by the National Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI, the opening of competition for railway maintenance has reduced costs by approximately 12 per cent while maintaining quality, which makes it difficult to understand why the government chooses to renationalise railway maintenance. There are several national and international actors involved in railway maintenance, and backing back into a monopoly situation will only lead to higher costs and, in the long term, less maintenance. In a report, the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the Swedish Transport Administration's procurements, and the various companies involved in maintenance have also made criticisms. Our view is that instead of renationalising maintenance, we should commission the Swedish Transport Administration to develop today's procurements to take advantage of the technological development that is taking place in the railway sector. While it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration becomes better at conducting procurements with a focus on price, quality and technology development, it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration continues to be responsible for inspecting the railway infrastructure and the maintenance needs of the installations. We in the Christian Democrats therefore want clarification that the Finnish Transport Administration has control of the facility, but that others are upgrading it. We believe that an investigation should be set up in which the entire Swedish model for planning procurements and carrying out maintenance and infrastructure projects should be reviewed. The commission will facilitate the use of the four-step principle and identify how other countries procure infrastructure. Madam President, I would like I cannot help but be surprised that, in these matters, SD is more or less pursuing the same policy as S, V and MP and wants the government to run more works. Instead of nationalising maintenance, we in KD want the Swedish Transport Administration to be better at conducting procurements that take account of the technology development that is taking place today. We do not need more own operation, but we need better and clearer procurements. Madam President, I would like Longer and heavier trains mean that the same amount of goods can be transported by fewer trains and that the passenger trains can be driven with more wagons. This provides improved commuting opportunities, reduces transport costs and frees up track capacity. Longer and heavier trains mean improved profitability and increased competitiveness of the railways in relation to other transport systems. Longer and heavier trains are also important to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness in the heavy base industry. We believe that the government must speed up the process of upgrading the tracks so that it can cope with a higher axle load and invest in our stations so that they can cope with the new train standard. Madam President, I would like At the same time as upgrading the stations, measures must be taken to prevent unauthorised persons from moving in the track area. Unauthorised in the rail area cause delays in rail traffic for both regional and long-distance trains. We believe that the Swedish Transport Administration, in cooperation with the train operators, should develop an action plan to reduce the number of personal accidents on our railway tracks. In this context, it is also important to point out that threats and violence against staff in the rail system are never acceptable. Here, together, we need to develop a strategy to increase the safety of those working in the railway sector. Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, rail is an important part of the Swedish transport system. We want to see the development of the railways with a focus on regional enlargement and better labour market regions and that it will be possible to move more goods by rail. To achieve this, we want to see strategic investments that facilitate local, long-distance and freight transport. We also want to strengthen the link between rail and shipping, as well as rail and so-called inland ports. Our aim is to enable more goods to be transported on the long distances by rail and to ensure that the final distribution takes place with the most environmentally friendly vehicles possible. It is also important that we develop the Nordic triangle and our railways along the Norrland coast. We Christian Democrats do not put different modes of transport against each other, but for us each mode has its advantages. By investing in both rail and road, we will make it easier for the industry and for all those who depend on the car to cope with their everyday lives.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-232	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson from the Christian Democrats questioned the Swedish Democrats' position on a withdrawal of maintenance under their own government direction and did not understand that. I can understand why the honourable Member Magnus Jacobsson does not understand that, because unlike Magnus Jacobsson I have been active since 1988, when I started at SJ. I have basically spent my entire life, except for one year, worked within SJ, Banverket and Trafikverket and seen the development. We can first look at the maintenance and what it has cost, and although the value of money has of course changed, I can see that according to a report from Parliament's investigation service, we spent about a third more on maintenance at Banverket's time in the early 2000s. Today, we spend three times more on maintenance. At the time, it was basically completely state-owned. We're not getting three times as much maintenance today. On the contrary, as far as I can see, we are receiving less maintenance. These are objective facts. I think Mr Jacobsson can explain whether he sees three times more maintenance today than was then. The second reason, as I clearly explained, is that the Swedish Transport Administration's competence to procure does not exist. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out the problems with this. This competence is gained through experience in working with these issues. I would very much like an answer from Magnus Jacobsson to the question of how he thinks it would be better if the Swedish Transport Administration has less competence in the procurements than if you have more competence.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-236	Madam President, I would like I have the greatest respect for Patrik Jönsson's experience and have on several occasions had the privilege of listening to the arguments of the Swedish Democrats. We Christian Democrats divide internal competence and procurement. When you listen to those who are currently working on maintenance, all operators are actually saying the same thing, namely that there is a great risk that renationalising activities will reduce skills. This means that you will have a brain drain when people who do not want to go back under the government umbrella simply choose to work in other industries. We already know today that it is difficult to find staff with the right skills. What is being highlighted is quite correct, i.e. that the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the Swedish Transport Administration for lack of competence. I also said in my speech that this is where we Christian Democrats would like to focus: getting better at purchasing and getting better at keeping track of things. That's what the owner has to do. Then serious procurements are made where the person who performs the maintenance has a good counterpart. From a Christian Democrat point of view, then, we share the view that in this case the counterpart is lacking. That is also what several of the investigations have shown. But the solution of renationalisation will not solve the problem. Rather, the great risk of renationalising is that we will have more people leaving the industry, and then we have really made a mess of ourselves, Madam President.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-240	Madam President, I would like No, Magnus Jacobsson, that's not the case. The people I meet in the industry are quite clear and say that almost everyone would have changed their hats. If it becomes government, you continue because you like your job. We've seen similar events. I can take an example from Region Skåne, where I was Regional Council 2014– 2018. There, three out of four ambulance districts went bankrupt, and it is quite serious when ambulance operations go bankrupt. Then there were two districts under my own direction, but I would have liked to have seen more. The public employer was the most attractive, and there have been some problems with staff flight from the private to the public. The fears are more likely to come from those who run these companies and who claim this to frighten others. Then we are not in favour of a total takeover of this, but I was very clear that we want the share to be in parity with what it is today. Already today, Infranord has about half the cake of the market, and about that level we thought from the Swedish Democrats would keep. This means that the option of private operators remains. In practice, what is currently a state-owned company becomes its own operation within the Swedish Transport Administration or, as I would have liked to have seen, Banverket. I would strongly argue that Mr Jacobsson does not understand the problem that there are people who have not worked on this. I myself have worked as a power and track operator and managed the state infrastructure within the railway for eleven years, and I would have had difficulties in starting to work as a buyer because I have not been on the track and can these facilities well enough despite this.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-246	Madam President, I would like The VTI study indicates that there have been savings through the method we are using today. The Swedish National Audit Office is incredibly clear in its criticism. It deals in particular with the lack of ability to procure properly. The various operators that at least we Christian Democrats have listened to very clearly signal that they are experiencing the same deficiency from the Finnish Transport Administration. They feel that you are late on the ball when it comes to digitizing the control of the tracks and that you are late on the ball to use the train's new technology where even locomotives and other things can feel the standard on a track. They actually feel a frustration that they do not have a strong enough counterpart. We Christian Democrats would like to see a strengthening of the Swedish Transport Administration's ability to make good procurements. In that part, I think we are in complete agreement, namely that we want better functioning maintenance. On the other hand, there are groups with whom we too have spoken and who share the views of the Swedish Democrats. It is above all the trade union partners. Perhaps this is where there is a more ideological dividing line. We Christian Democrats believe in market forces and in the idea of having different parties to bid, while the trade unions believe in the idea of going back to more of the old. I was a little surprised that the Swedish Democrats have landed in the position of the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party. In their case, I understand that. It's kind of connected to their ideological roots. In the case of the Swedish Democrats, I was somewhat more surprised. In essence, however, I believe that if we are to get maintenance in order, the focus must be on better procurement. Recovering staff who are going to do the job will not help if the management's order is poor.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-252	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech here today by saying that there are now very positive signs that we are about to leave the pandemic behind. It's been a tough time for all of us. This, in turn, has affected passenger transport, not least in the railway sector. The requirement to use only every other chair has led to large losses for the companies. Let us hope that after the summer we can return to more normal conditions and start seeing family and friends and having physical work meetings. The human encounter creates community, creativity and joy. These are, in fact, sources of energy and of our well-being. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Transport's report on Railways. Liberals believe that the railway is a very important piece of the puzzle for Sweden to achieve its transport and climate goals. The railway has many advantages compared to other means of transport, including energy efficiency, low emissions during operation, and can transport many passengers and large quantities of goods over large distances. At the same time, it is rail-bound and needs to be complemented by other modes of transport. It is therefore important to also focus on the transitions to other means of transport from the railway, as it is the total time from door to door that is essential, not the time for a specific distance on the journey. Two of the most important parameters for trains are their availability and punctuality. The total capacity, operation and maintenance play crucial roles here. In order to increase punctuality, bottlenecks in Sweden must be removed so that we get coherent lines and can use the capacity of the entire string. At the same time, we have fortunately had a positive development in operation and maintenance. Since the removal of the monopoly on railway maintenance, the cost of maintenance has been reduced by 11%, while maintaining quality. In short, we get more maintenance for our common money. And maintenance is important to increase punctuality. Madam President, I would like We Liberals want to see continued competitive railway maintenance on state railways procured on market terms. At the same time, the Finnish Transport Agency must have the right skills to ensure the procurement so that maintenance remains effective and of high quality. The Swedish National Audit Office's report Operation and maintenance of railways – extensive cost deviations point to the need for a better client competence at the Swedish Transport Administration and that it is important to achieve higher efficiency in railway maintenance. I therefore believe that the Government should ensure that the Finnish Transport Administration makes a broad analysis of which procurement form provides the greatest efficiency, benefit and productivity for railway maintenance. At the same time, it is important to give priority to the construction of an IT system that makes available the data on the quality of the railways collected during each work. They can give a comprehensive picture of where maintenance needs in Sweden are at their greatest and thus streamline the entire railway maintenance. This is also a major source of the client competence that the Swedish Transport Administration needs. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention the Government's ambition to return the actual maintenance to the Finnish Transport Administration. I think that is the wrong way to go. Liberalisation has given us more maintenance to higher quality. More good arguments against a return can also be found in the referral to the future railway maintenance report from 2020. Madam President, I would like In the infrastructure bill, which the Liberals and the Center Party have developed together with the government, we invest large amounts of money on both maintenance and new investments in the railway. If there is to be some of this effort, it requires a lot of competent staff. Money is only part of what is needed. Today there is a lack of many professional competences, as we have heard earlier speakers exemplify. Therefore, it is important to invest in specialized training programmes while creating an attractive market for both Swedish and foreign companies in order to build increased competence in railway maintenance and construction in Sweden for the future. Madam President, I would like The year 2029 is a year that is on the lips of many, because then it is supposed that the great Fehmarn Belt - the link between Denmark and Germany will be completed. It will offer great opportunities to increase passenger and freight traffic to Europe by rail. Among other things, 1 050 metres long trains will be allowed. At the same time, in Sweden, we currently have major capacity shortages on the railways. One common solution is to allow longer and heavier trains on our Swedish railways, which would provide great climate benefits. We could also quickly increase rail capacity and improve the competitiveness of transport-dependent companies. This requires less investment, including in meeting stations, bypasses and longer platforms, but it is small investments in relation to the benefits created. Finally, Madam President, I would like to draw attention to the development of the basis for the national infrastructure plan which, following next week's decision here in Parliament, will start at the Finnish Transport Administration. My focus and that of Liberals is that it will be a national plan for the whole of Sweden. We want daily commuting to work and studies to be prioritised. The transport system will strengthen training, jobs and the competitiveness of businesses. Liberals want to see bottlenecks opened, capacity shortages removed and accessibility increased. This applies not least to Sweden's worst bottleneck, Gothenburg– Alingsås. The infrastructure shortage in West Sweden is a problem for the whole country. Here, double tracks must be built to secure the accessibility of Norrland Trains to the Port of Gothenburg and to provide increased capacity between Stockholm and Gothenburg in the near future. Pendlers and companies in need of freight transport cannot wait for decades for capacity to come. Madam President, I would like The transport systems must be connected, and it must work from door to door for both persons and goods. It is the total transport time that should be in focus. The connections between road, rail, shipping and air transport should work, and infrastructure investments in rail in Sweden must be linked to infrastructure investments in our neighbouring countries. There is a great need to reduce traffic in the 2,000 trucks that cross the Norwegian-Sweden border every day. Given this limit, and not least with regard to the Fehmarn Belt construction, we need to have a great deal of focus on what is happening in our neighbouring countries. Liberals want to see a business pool, to be used for smaller access routes to facilitate companies' need for increased transport. Sweden should stick together, both as a country and as regards our rail network. It is much more effective to maintain what we have. That is why a major effort is needed to maintain the railways, with market foremarks. Cost control in calculations and budgets must be increased, as I have talked about earlier in this speaker's seat. This also applies to early stage cost control. It is unreasonable for a large part of infrastructure projects to break the budget and thus crowd out other projects. Liberals want to see an expansion of Sweden's railways based on socio-economic calculations coupled with a regional development perspective. Infrastructure is important for freight transport, the provision of skills and people's ability to travel wherever they are in the country. Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations, but I only call for reservation 3 on the operation and maintenance of railways.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-271	Madam President, I would like I understand, Helena Gellerman, that you are driven by an ideology to privatize. I also understand that the left is driven by an ideology in which everything should be in the public service; that is no secret. Instead, the Swedish democrats are driven by the ideology that it should be as good as possible and that you should get as much of the tax money as possible. That is why I have to come to the same question that the honourable Member himself raised in the speaker's chair. At the beginning of the 2000s, the state spent just over 3 billion on maintenance. At that time almost everything was within Banverket Production. It was basically purely state-owned; a few contracts had been negotiated. Today we put in round toss 10 billion a year. Wage development during this time has been around 40 per cent. We can assume that today's monetary value would be equivalent to two and a half times more in maintenance expenses today. But I firmly argue – and I've seen it with my own eyes because I've worked in the industry – that you don't get two and a half times more in maintenance. On the contrary, I think it was easier at the beginning of the 21st century to get helpers out of error on time. It had a coordinated organisation, where it was easier to remedy major errors. Everything was in Banverket Production, and people could be distributed more easily. My question to Helena Gellerman must be: Does Helena Gellerman think that we get more maintenance for the money now than we got 20 years ago?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-275	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Patrik Jönsson for the question. I agree with him that we should get the most out of our tax money. It is very important that they are not wasted, and I have also mentioned this in my speech. As far as maintenance is concerned, there are investigations that show that we are getting more out of it after we spent maintenance on market grounds and it is no longer just the state that is doing it. The cost of maintenance has gone down by 11%. For me, this is a clear signal that we are getting more for the money. I would like to listen to the research when I consider these questions. In addition, the maintenance companies have clearly stated that one of the problems is that capacity utilisation on the railways is quite different today from what it was 20 years ago. There are considerably more trains, which we have seen countless forecasts of. This means that they do not get as much time to carry out maintenance, which in turn means that the costs of the same measure have risen – in some cases they have doubled, in others they have tripled. It is this information on which I base my statements.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-278	Madam President, I would like There are several reasons why maintenance today costs an incredible amount of money than it cost then, but that we have such a much higher capacity utilisation that it would justify a threefold increase is far from correct. I am not saying that this 1% a year is a boast, but that it would not be saved money and more efficient during SJ's or Banverket's time is not true. The relevant comparison is actually how much it was made more effective during the time when it was state-owned. It was much more efficient, I can say. Then, of course, everything was not good at Banverket's time. There were absolutely things that I thought were a problem. One might have had a partially inefficient overhead – the organization above could have been more effective. Nevertheless, it is a fact that at the beginning of the 21st century maintenance cost just over 3 billion a year and that today we are up to over 10 billion. At least that seems to me to be a problem. I really have two questions. I would like answers on how the Finnish Transport Administration should ensure the competence for procurement – I and Helena Gellerman are sure to agree that it is not sufficient. How do the Liberals believe that you should strengthen the competence in procurement unless you have natural career paths and competence in the house? How's it gonna come? It doesn't come flying to the Transport Administration through the window on a windy day. My second question is: does Helena Gellerman really believe that there was no efficiency gain at the time when this was state-owned?
i-BqZ6TMXazdERddgK4gMpPB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Jönsson, for further questions! My reflection on the procurement competence at Trafikverket is that one should perhaps set the windows wide open so that some fresh fans come in. As far as procurement documents are concerned, it is in fact possible to have an exchange of skills if you cooperate and require more information about the status of the rail network. There can also be an exchange between those who perform maintenance out on the tracks and Trafikverket. People can move. People who work in the private sector can start working for Trafikverket, and people at Trafikverket can start working on the tracks. I don't really buy this solid part about working either in public or in private. An exchange is usually good; then you see things with new eyes and implement things in other ways. I believe that the Swedish Transport Administration could thus increase its procurement competence. Another way I touched on in my speech. You need to have better control of the very status of the railway. I think it is important to introduce an IT system that makes it easier for Trafikverket to know about maintenance, because it is based on this that you know what to place orders on. Otherwise, the 11 percent efficiency increase that VTI points to comes from the fact that it went from having it in public to having it in private.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-290	Madam President, I would like We are now debating rail issues. As you know, we are in a climate emergency. We urgently need to reduce emissions from all sectors, not least from the transport sector. The railway is our most efficient and cleanest way to transport people and goods over long distances in our country. That's why the Left Party wants to make a big effort on the railways. We need both to build new railways and to maintain those that we already have better. We will come back next week to the Government's proposal for an infrastructure bill, but I would like to make it clear here that the Left Party is doing far more than the government, C and L. The Left Party adds SEK 170 billion more to better maintenance and extension of new railway. With these investments we can build the Norrbotnia Line in time. We can have double tracks from Gävle up to Härnösand. We may have four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala. We can expand the capacity on the Western Main Line, not least from Alingsås in towards Gothenburg. We can invest more in freight transport and build new freight tracks. At Norvik's port, south of Stockholm, for example, we need to have double tracks so that we can transport the goods that come to the port further by rail instead of going by truck on motorways. There is an enormous amount that we need to do. The government has great plans, I can tell you, but most of them are just plans. For example, when it comes to high-speed roads, the government is still stagnating; there is no fully funded proposal. The Left Party believes that it is necessary to borrow the money to build the high-speed roads so that they can be completed on time. If we get a loan-funded solution, we can build high-speed roads in Sweden in the same industrial and modern way that you build high-speed roads in Spain, France, China and so on. It is possible if you just want to, but for some reason you let the Liberals dictate the speed of this matter. Then there will be speed at the level of an old milk train – that is not possible at all, in other words. Madam President, I would like We also need to promote railways and trains as a mode of transport compared with other modes of transport. As it is today, the government is rather opposed to the possibility of transporting more people and more goods on the railways. In the last 15 years, for example, rail charges – i.e. the cost that operators pay for transporting people and goods by rail – have increased by 300%. This is a punishment for the railways. At the same time, there is no corresponding charge for truck transport by road, for example. We in the Left Party want to do the opposite of what the government is doing today. We want a kilometre tax on road truck transport, and we want to reduce rail rail infrastructure charges. The Ertms signal system has been mentioned here before. This can be an important and good signal system in the future. At present, however, it looks a little shaky, so we in the Left Party do not mind waiting on this. If it is introduced on different routes, it is also necessary to compensate those who will drive the trains on these routes with a government co-financing to extend on-board equipment. That's what other countries do, and it's strange that the government doesn't do this. I am also very surprised by something else, Madam President. Now during the pandemic we have seen many modes of transport literally going down in the basement regarding the number of transports. The government has been very quick to go in with aid packages after aid packages to the aviation sector. The first aid package paid by the government in connection with the coronapandemine came on 17 March and was a large aid package for the aviation sector. In total, the government has pledged SEK 16 billion in subsidies to the aviation sector. If we compare this with the targeted support for the rail sector, we see that there is about seven times more money for flights than for trains. I believe that something is shaking here. Even the railway sector is extremely hard hit during the pandemic, so there is a lot more to do here. Madam President, I would like I have listened with great interest to the speeches before my on rail maintenance. It doesn't matter how much we invest in building new railways and new main roads if we don't care for those we already have. Then we must have better railway maintenance and then we need to do two things. We need to spend more money on railway maintenance. We do so in the Left Party proposal, which I will talk more about next week when we have that debate. Madam President, I would like We also need to have a better organisation for railway maintenance. Today, Sweden has Europe's most liberalised and privatised railway maintenance. Why? Because the state has no responsibility at all. The state's screws are not even in a small nut if it loosens from the rails, but everything is laid out on private operators. Liberalisation would put pressure on prices and make railway maintenance more efficient. However, the state investigation that has examined railway maintenance, which came last year, notes the opposite: that it has not led to efficiency improvements and new innovations in railway maintenance. We can also look at the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which is included in the report. The Swedish National Audit Office rightly notes that the costs have increased by 74 per cent compared with the tenders submitted to the Swedish Transport Administration in the procurement of railway maintenance. The diversity of actors has also been totally absent when we have an oligopoly in railway maintenance. In short, there are two players: Infranord and Strukton. Then there are NRC and Omexom, but they are very small in the context. Sometimes there is only one operator who bids in the bidding process. The Finnish Transport Agency notes that these are unbalanced biddings. It is simply High Chaparall when it comes to these biddings, because they do not match the cost that comes in the end. It's sugary bidding, but it's very salty bills that come in the end. We also see this in the review from the Swedish National Audit Office. The costs are 74 per cent higher than those recorded in the bidding process. Then bourgeois politicians usually say: Yes, yes, but this is a little market failure. There are small problems that we can adjust. We may, for example, demand, as we have heard in several speeches here, that the Swedish Transport Administration should make better procurements so that you really get the verdict that you want. But how do you do better procurement? Then you have to put more details into the procurement, exactly what you want. However, the more details are included in the tendering process, the more difficult it is to have a reliable procurement activity. It closes all the doors for innovation, for example, because all the details are already in that mission, so it is quite difficult to do that. Then bourgeois politicians say: We must ensure that we have better control. How do you get better control? Well, you have to build a big bureaucracy to control the purchasing and selling system. And that is exactly what we have got, a huge bureaucracy. There are more people who work with paper than those who are in the field repairing contact wires and screws. Then something's a little weird. For example, Helena Gellerman and several others have related to the report from VTI. It is thus a doctoral thesis from a researcher named Kristofer Odolinski, who concluded that the costs have gone down by 11 percent since outsourcing everything. Let's remember a few things. I don't know if Helena Gellerman has read this thesis. It is not a coherent thesis, but there are four essays that Odolinski has done, and there is nothing wrong with that. It is rather theoretical matter, I would say, which does not take into account the great bureaucracy that needs to be built up, i.e. the so-called indirect costs that are being rolled over to the Finnish Transport Administration. There is a great extra cost that comes with this. And the most important thing is that VTI's review, as Helena Gellerman says, only extends until 2011. After all, it is then that the great liberalisation has actually taken place, so it was only in its infancy then. Since then, we have had 12 years of liberalised systems and see that it does not work, as the state inquiry in this area has also stated. I would like to ask Helena Gellerman and others: Do you think that Volvo, SSAB and LKAB will also liberalise and completely privatise their maintenance? If a screw loosens in a Volvo machine, should you make a public procurement and take in four different tenders? No, you don't. But that is actually what the system looks like today. The Finnish Transport Agency, the state, has no control over its own facility, and it is a plant dealing with 14 000 kilometres of railway. There are thousands of contact lines, there are tunnels, there are bridges and so on. It is completely unreasonable to have Europe's most liberalised maintenance as we have today. Britain did just as we did at the beginning of the 1990s. The UK withdrew its government maintenance in 2001. We can look at other comparable countries, such as Germany, France and Switzerland. None of those countries have such a liberalised maintenance system as we have in Sweden. Madam President, I am sorry that I have exceeded the speaking time. But I would just like to roll back to 1856, when the whole Parliament was gathered. I think there were two chambers back then. It was a liberal finance minister, August Gripenstedt, who had recently taken up office. At that time we actually had a fully privatised railway system. We had a lot of local, private little tracks. You can really talk about milk trains. At that time it could take a week to travel from Malmö to Stockholm. August Gripenstedt went to the Riksdag and said: I am looking for your mandate to borrow money and build state main tracks from Skåne to Stockholm and from Stockholm to Gothenburg. He got a yes. 90 percent of the cost was borrowed and the western main railway and the southern main railway were built in nine years. We can do that again, but then we have to take joint responsibility. I can't see it exists today. But it can be decided on, and that is what I hope we will do.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-318	Madam President, I would like I requested a reply when I was apostrophated a number of times. The background to that I think that you should outscourca and use the expertise that exists in the area is very much based on my own experience. I've worked at Volvo before, and there we worked a lot on outsourcing. We know that if you outscourcar you must have a lot of skills yourself. That is why I stressed in my speech that the Swedish Transport Administration had to acquire a great deal of expertise, but it can be obtained by working together, just as I mentioned in the reply to Patrik Jönsson after my speech. Basically all the development at Volvo is outsourced to a large number of subcontractors. You write a specification of what you want, and then the suppliers do what the company wants to develop. That I am very positive that outscourca maintenance is based precisely on that I think you should use the expertise available on the market. That is my answer to Jens Holm's question.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-322	Madam President, I would like It was no coincidence that I mentioned Volvo. I know where Helena Gellerman has worked before. There is no major industrial company in Sweden that outsources its entire business and releases control over its machinery park, its factories, etc. You need to know what's there. You put some things out on the market, what you can't do on your own. Some people spend a lot, because they see that it works very well. Others, such as SSAB, LKAB and heavy industry, build up almost the entire competence themselves. Trafikverket cannot do that today, because Trafikverket must outsource all its 34 basic contracts. They don't have their own skills. That is why I believe that the Liberals owe the answer a: how will this competence be built up? We will work together a little more," says the Liberals. Yes, but I can tell you that the Finnish Transport Administration has been trying to do it since 2010. But here we also have companies who see that they can earn huge sums if they make a low bid, with which they win, and then come with a salted bill. They make a lot of money out of it. It's not a secret, it's exactly what the Swedish National Audit Office's report says. That is exactly what the Finnish Transport Administration has been talking about. That is exactly what is mentioned in Olausson's report on the maintenance of the railways. I still have to ask the Liberals: do you think it would have been good if it had been the same for Swedish industry as it is for the Swedish Transport Administration with the railways, that everything had to be outsourced and that you could not have anything in your own direction? Would it have been good for Volvo and others?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-327	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question, Jens Holm! It's been a long time since I worked at Volvo– it's been 20 years since I quit. But at that time different parts of the car were outsourced to different companies. You then write a specification, much like when you procure maintenance of the railway. It's about having client skills. You need to acquire skills around what you're going to buy. Private companies do this to exploit existing skills. Those who are out on the market also work with other customers and then get a greater competence in that particular area. That way it can be cheaper. You get shell effects and things like that. But it is important to write down requirements in the procurement process. What information do I need to get to keep track of the status of the rail network, and what do I need to maintain in the future? It is therefore very much about what the procurement documents look like and what requirements you make. Then, as I mentioned earlier, there is an exchange of skills. It's not that you work either in public or in private. People get in between. I was working on research. Industrial doctoral students have intervened. You work at Chalmers and then go back. The exchange of competence is extremely important for Sweden's competitiveness. That's what I'm building this on, and that's my very positive experience of working this way.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-330	Madam President, I would like The big difference between Trafikverket and Volvo is that Trafikverket cannot themselves take back maintenance in the facilities where they want it. For that, an active decision is required from us politicians. Volvo can decide any day of the week: We do this on our own, because we want to keep an eye on that facility. And I think that Volvo, like all other major industries, is making sure to get a pretty good track of its own facility. If Helena Gellerman wants it to work for Trafikverket as for Volvo, Helena Gellerman should at least endorse the state investigation in this area, Olausson's investigation, where it is proposed that Trafikverket should manage eight basic contracts in its own right to keep track of its own facility. You should know how it works so that you can then make good demands in public procurement. I think that's a bit of a decency requirement – or a bit of a bottom, if I say so – when it comes to how we can get more reasonable railway maintenance. If you have eight, or a third, of these contracts in your own right, I and the Left Party believe that you can perhaps have all the contracts under your own control. Then you can lay out what you can't do on your own. That is exactly what was done in Britain, for example. It was liberalised ten years earlier than we did. Since then, everything has been taken back in its own right and formed Network Rail, the government maintenance company. But even there, you spend some on private actors when you feel that it's something you can't do yourself or when others can do it at a better price. I don't understand why the Liberals are so market-fundamentalist. Everything must be done by private actors. The state must not do anything itself. I find that very strange. It's not going to be an effective maintenance.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-334	Madam President, I would like What do you expect when you're on a train? Well, that the train comes in time for you to get on and that it arrives in time for you to get off. As our chairman of the committee mentioned, the Parliament decided in 1856 to invest in railways. In 1879, it was discovered that in order to have a good timetable, one must have the same time throughout the country. Since then we have in Sweden the same time throughout the country, this so that we will have punctuality on the trains. Madam President, I would like In May this year we had a punctuality of 93.6%. Of 79,908 trains, 93.6 percent arrived on time. Unfortunately, as a northerner, I can see that not one of all major stations in the north was over 90%. From Gävle to Luleå, punctuality is less than 90 percent. The more stations with a punctuality higher than the average, there are in southern Sweden. This may be because of the long distances we have in Norrland or perhaps because we need to invest in rail in the north, which the government has also prioritised both in the past and in the next national plan. Madam President, I would like The railway consists of many different parts: signals, switches, electrical power, switchboards and overhead lines. All of this must work together in order for us to be able to ride trains or transport goods. We have 12 000 kilometres of track with overhead line, 11 000 gears and 29 000 signals. And this is only part of what is really rail. Right now we are upgrading the Swedish railway as never before, while the amount of traffic has increased. In fact, over the last 20 years, the number of departures has increased by 35%. There are 35% more trains on the railways today, while every year we have 2 200 planned railway work. Madam President, I would like There's quite a lot going on on the railroad every year, every day. In this report, we also deal with the National Audit Office's review of railway maintenance. The review of Trafikverket's basic maintenance showed that 28 out of 31 contracts were up to 71 per cent more expensive. Of the contracts under review, two contracts were awarded in 2007, two contracts in 2008, seven contracts in 2009, three contracts in 2010, seven contracts in 2011, five contracts in 2012, two contracts in 2013 and three contracts in 2014. All of them ended between 2013 and 2019. Madam President, I would like This was thus procured under the former government of Reinfeldt. Therefore, I would urge the Moderates to stop acting like the elephant in the porcelain shop and instead be adults in the room and take responsibility. In fact, this requires all of us to take responsibility. The Government points out that it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration has the right conditions for an efficient railway maintenance. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's observation that support schemes are necessary to provide a complete and comprehensive picture of the state of the facility and thus make the right procurements, which is not the case today and which was not the case when the government ruled Reinfeldt. Madam President, I would like Needs are increasing, and this needs to be done right. The market is almost nonexistent. It is rarely there are many companies with. 28 contracts have been reviewed, but not even the Swedish National Audit Office dares to write how many companies made tenders. Are we talking about 50 companies? No, Madam President, we are not even talking about 50 companies. There are hardly 50 companies across the EU. There is virtually no market for this. That is why it is important, Madam President, that we ensure that the Finnish Transport Administration gets a part of it in its own right, in order to gain more knowledge of the facility and better opportunities for tendering. Madam President, I would like We invest a lot, and it's important. As early as last May when the pandemic struck, the government had a ready-made proposal put on the table to increase the investment in railway maintenance by 720 million. After that, we have received further increases – 500 million this year, 500 million next year and 500 million in 2023 in increased maintenance efforts. The new plan, which will be debated next week, will also increase to a total of 799 billion. Compared to today, there will be an increase of SEK 176.5 billion in additional investments in infrastructure. That is not a little bit, Madam President. That's a lot of money. We need to expand new paths. We need to expand railways in the north and south. We have an exceptional situation. It is even the case that the President of the European Commission often refers to Norrland as the light in the dark when it comes to climate change. It is therefore important that we have the opportunity to increase investment in rail and that we do not make the same mistake as the Moderates did in 2006 when they came to power and removed the Norrbotnia Line from national planes. I still wonder why. We can only imagine that if the track had remained in the plan and it had been completed, what development it could not have been in Norrland. To this we can add double tracks on the Ostcoast Line. It could have been an amazing development. With new capacity, new main roads, in the south, this country would have had the potential to grow economically – perhaps to one of the top ten in the world. Now we're where we are, and we have to dream... because someone took away some of the investments. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-350	Madam President, I would like I have to admit that I have, I was saying, a moral philosophical problem when I am going to debate with Mr Jasenko. Not only is he a northerner, but he is also a damn nice sosse. Nevertheless, as one of many opposition representatives, I must try to have some debate with you. But you're supposed to have that credit; I appreciate working with you on the Transport Committee. Madam President, I would like Mr Jasenko highlighted a number of important aspects, such as punctuality. And that's where we agree. He raises the importance of investments in Norrland. There's a deal. Then it stops. 90% of all transport is on the road. 10% is done by rail. So far, the Social Democratic budget is investing in the future. The forthcoming budget, which we will discuss on Monday, will invest in the future. We agree that investment in the future is a good thing, but there is a problem where the balance is more spent on investment than it is on managing what it already owns and has. This is where I come to my question. We now see at national level, much as we see in many municipalities, a maintenance debt. The road body breaks down, and the railroad bodies break down. What does the government intend to do, and what do the Social Democrats intend to do, to deal with the maintenance debt? Despite the new money that Mr Jasenko is highlighting, we are in a negative position.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-354	Madam President, I would like I thank my colleague, Mr Jacobsson, for his fine words. I like working with you, too. I'll go to your questions about maintenance. This is a very important issue. It's very important that there's more maintenance. Therefore, in the first National Plan, we increased maintenance by 48 per cent. After the decision, we have spent money on increased maintenance by rail during the pandemic. It's really important to build new ones. The amount of movement on the railways has increased so much that new capacity is needed. But we must be able to hold several balls in the air at the same time, which means that the plant must be kept in good condition at the same time. That is why we are investing, as never before, in the railways. The Swedish National Audit Office points to the need to make investments. We also need to look at how it works when we do procurement. We are not going to invest money blindly, but we are also going to look at what we get for the money. Therefore, it is important to look at what conditions the Finnish Transport Agency has for making good procurements, to make efforts to get what colleague Jacobsson wants, i.e. robust railways where trains come on time regardless of whether they transport people or goods.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-357	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that the government has increased the appropriations, but it is equally correct to note that, despite this, a larger maintenance debt continues to emerge. It is correct to increase, and it is also correct to increase less than the debt requires. Here I come to my second question, Madam President. I understood that Jasenko Omanovic was clear during his speech with the same criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has made. It is almost devastating criticism that the authority has against the Finnish Transport Agency. The Government shares the view of the Swedish National Audit Office in its criticism of the Swedish Transport Administration. There is therefore a consensus between the government, the National Audit Office and the Social Democrats in the Chamber in the criticism of the Swedish Transport Administration. Nevertheless, the solution is that this authority that receives criticism should do more because it wants to renationalise the entire maintenance. The authority that receives devastating criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office, devastating criticism of the government and indeed criticism in the Chamber should thus do more wrong. It doesn't make any sense. We would have to do better procurements, as the Swedish National Audit Office says, clearer procurements, use market forces to maintain more, not use a criticized authority to maintain less with new money. Madam President, I would like This doesn't make any sense.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-361	Madam President, I would like I have to start by asking myself why everyone is making criticisms. What's the criticism? You can criticise anything, but what does the criticism contain? The criticism is that the Swedish Transport Administration lacks knowledge. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the Swedish Transport Administration does not have the knowledge, and there are many of us who agree that the Swedish Transport Administration is not in a position to acquire knowledge. I am one of those who believe that human beings can develop, and I assume that my colleague, Mr Jacobsson, also does. Therefore, I believe that we can develop the Swedish Transport Administration by including some of the maintenance in the Swedish Transport Administration's direction. This allows you to gain knowledge and competence about how and what to procure. The majority of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is directed against this. That is why we feel that this is the right way to go, that is to give the authority the opportunity to be more robust, to gain more knowledge and competence, so that what needs to be procured is done right and well so that it can get more out of maintenance and rail.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-363	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mr Jasenko that trains should go on time, and it is important that we maintain our railways. What is even more important is that the money we spend on maintenance really goes to maintenance. It shall be noted that the rails do not break and that the trains are in a position to arrive on time. In my speech, I raised Gunnar Alexandersson's report, which was presented in April 2015. It says that the Swedish Transport Administration lacks systems to have knowledge of the status of the railway, and without such knowledge it is not possible to make good procurements. Trafikverket lacks a national maintenance plan, and Trafikverket lacks procedures to follow up maintenance contracts. What has the government been doing, Jasenko Omanovic, since 2015 to ensure that the three deficiencies are actually addressed?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-366	Madam President, I would like You should remember one thing here: The Finnish Transport Agency was founded in 2010. We can all be hindsight about how hasty it was and whether it was good or bad. We can discuss this in retrospect. But Trafikverket was formed so that we could get these profits. It was formed by the Government of Reinfeldt to find the profits in shared competence. But along the way, that competence disappeared. Much of the expertise disappeared. Therefore, the only possible answer to the question is that what we need to do, and what the government is now doing, is to prepare the conditions for the Swedish Transport Administration to take back part of it itself. That is what we need to do in order to be able to manage the procurement process and to get more money for the maintenance of the railways. That's what you need to do-- get back knowledge on your own, inhouse in the agency. It was too much outsourcing. It was kind of like with Swedish companies in the 90s, who sent everything out and then came to realize: We must have something at home. We must have the knowledge at home. It's the same thing here. You need to get back knowledge into Trafikverket in order to be able to manage to procure. That's what you need.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-370	Madam President, I would like I note that Mr Jasenko did not answer my questions at all. This was therefore criticism that came in 2015 from a researcher at the School of Economics who has no party name, unlike the one who has investigated this with the renationalisation of maintenance. These three shortcomings were identified in the report that came in April 2015, and I interpret the lack of response as not having done anything about these three very serious criticisms that were directed at the Finnish Transport Administration in the report. It was thrown into the drawer and appointed an investigator with a clear "S" label who would conclude in an ideological investigation that the only solution to any maintenance problem is to renationalise. It makes it very clear that these three very serious criticisms are not taken seriously. It is about 4 1⁄2 billion a year going to railway maintenance. I am concerned that that money, and that is tax money, ends up in a black hole without making a big difference to the quality of the rails. What Gunnar Alexandersson also states very clearly in his investigation is that if you are to acquire knowledge about the standard out on the rails it requires a good IT system. It doesn't have the Traffic Administration. It requires a maintenance plan. It doesn't have the Traffic Administration. And that requires good follow-up. He also notes in his report that there is no indication that it would in any way affect these very serious shortcomings that the Swedish Transport Administration is simultaneously beginning to take back maintenance under its own direction. Once again, I note that in April 2015, the government received three extremely strong criticisms of waste of money going to maintenance because the Finnish Transport Agency is not in control. Nothing has been done, and now it is believed that renationalisation will solve the problems. No one else really agrees.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-377	Madam President, I would like I wouldn't be as categorical as Maria Stockhaus is here. That a computer system solves all the problems, I certainly would not say. That's why the government does what it does. The government has analysed the investigation it received and seen that here is a problem: one lacks knowledge of the facility, which a computer program cannot solve. Therefore, the government needs to see what can be done. One thing is to take back on your own. In this case, it is not a question of renationalising for ideological reasons or, as in the case of Maria Stockhaus, of being totally opposed to it. It's not about that. It's actually about knowledge. It's about competence within an authority. I don't know why we should deny it to our authorities. That's the question, is that how you work in the Moderates? Is that why you removed Norrbotniabanan from the national plan, as you did in 2006? Was it for ideological reasons? I understand that there will be a question out in thin air. But once again: Authorities must be able to acquire competence and knowledge. They need to know what they're doing. They can do that by getting it on their own. You can call it renationalising or whatever you want, but they need knowledge – and that's what we're going to give the authority.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-382	Madam President, I would like Yes, Jasenko, in 1879– you can sometimes think that trains still follow four time zones when you're waiting for a while. A little reflection I was actually going to do. Something in here that I find rather sad is that there does not seem to be much faith from some Members to valuable skills and experience acquired through a career as a railer, signal technician or contact management booth. It does not seem to be worth anything to some Members, and I find that very boring. In this case, I am not actually addressing Mr Jasenko. However, Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Jasenko a few questions about something I raised in my speech. The honourable Member will remember that I raised the problems of the Finnish Transport Administration's actions against small railway contractors. It hurts me to hear about people – often with background in Banverket or SJ – who built up a company, invested all their capital and energy and spent several hours and then see the whole life's work just erased because of an authority's actions. I was going to ask the honourable Member if the government thinks this is an important question and something to deal with. For me, that's a very important question. My second question is quite simple. In May 2020 it was decided to invest 720 million, it was then said, in increased railway maintenance. But it was only 200 million. Could Mr Jasenko mention some of the projects that were put in place? I haven't seen one of them.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-388	Madam President, I would like As far as the last question put by Patrik Jönsson is concerned, I actually have the list in my bag. I can submit it later – the list of all projects that are ongoing I can submit after the line change so that Patrik Jönsson also has it. With regard to the existing SME players, it is crucial that the Authority treats all businesses equally. It is also important to safeguard the skills available on the market, because this is not a huge market. At the same time, it is important for the authority to be able to try something legally when it considers it necessary. I have no idea or knowledge of where and when, it's kind of beyond my competence, but you need to be able to do that too. What to do in these cases cannot be explained now, but I think that the authority should protect all three things I have mentioned: the competence, that all companies should be treated equally, and that one should be able to review what one considers necessary in order to have precedents and the opportunity for further procurement.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-391	Madam President, I would like I have also seen a claim from the Swedish Transport Administration about projects, but these are projects that would still be implemented. There are said to be a small number of projects, but when you inquire with people in the industry you are told that it is projects that it has already been decided to implement. So you should probably bring a giant pinch of salt. Madam President, I would like Then you choose from the authority not to pay on time. Of course you should treat everyone equally, but maybe you should treat everyone well too. When, for example, we make the choice, in principle, to go into dispute immediately instead of seeking consensus and resolving it in other ways, I think it is very worrying – but that is far too kind to say. I think it is really bad style, and we should not have such action on the part of the authorities. I therefore hope that the Social Democrats will choose to contact people in the industry and listen to what the problems are so that the Government can take this with the Swedish Transport Administration. I will put one final question to Mr Jasenko about high-speed trains. The government has said very clearly that it wants to proceed with high-speed trains, and that means that many projects will lack money for implementation. Such projects are, for example, in Skåne, where I live and where we have had a huge increase in travel. We probably have over 150 miles of single tracks that would have to be converted into double tracks, which will not happen. We have, for example, Ostkustbanan, where very many northerners actually live. Many people live along the coast of Norrland – believe it or not. It may almost be considered densely populated with Swedish measurements. What does Jasenko Omanovic say to those who are now left out? There may be some snout for a few miles, but we would have to have this completed in its entirety so that the journey time from Sundsvall down to Gävle and on to Stockholm is halved.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-397	Madam President, I would like I'll just say it's not just from Sundsvall. Between Sundsvall and Uusimaa there is also a route that needs to be extended both for longer trains and for it to go faster. It also needs to be part of this. Madam President, I would like I can't comment on what government agencies do. I don't have that knowledge. Of course, I am open to listening to everyone, but the knowledge of why the authority chooses one thing I do not have today. The high-speed trains are very good. We need to build new capacities and new main roads. I have heard objections from Skåne, Madam President, that one can build next to the existing track. But it's not really about building a porch or carport next to the house. It is about building a robust railway that can cope with the future. You can't do that in principle as you build a porch. Therefore, we really need to gather all the strength and knowledge in order to be able to do as much as possible. From Norrbotniabanan down to Ostkustbanan, to Linköping and all the way down to Malmö and Borås, Jönköping and Gothenburg, we need this capacity to cope with developments in the country, be able to meet the future and be wise – as they were in 1856 in this Chamber, or on the other side.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-401	Madam President, I would like The railway is the most climate-smart way to transport many people and lots of goods. That is precisely why the Green Party is Sweden's most rail-loving party. We want to both build new high-speed rail lines and expand and upgrade the railways throughout the country. As a traveler, I should be able to trust that the train is both on time and on time. It is therefore important to ensure both capacity and maintenance of the railways. It is easy, Madam President, for the debate to get caught up in the question of new main courses. But the fact is that Sweden's railways need both the spine and ribs – both main roads and regional tracks that connect and connect the country and enable sustainable transport. However, Madam President, I was going to save the debate on new baselines until next week's debate on the infrastructure bill, as it is in the infrastructure report that this issue is to be found. However, if any Member wishes to discuss the matter further, I am open to lines. Madam President, I would like Train travel has increased significantly for several decades and has more than doubled since the early 1990s. However, during the pandemic, rail traffic, as well as many other traffic, especially public transport, has been heavily affected by reduced travel, when travellers have been responsible and refrained from travelling. This has been a major challenge for train operators. At the same time, it has created room for increased railway maintenance when it has become less crowded on the tracks. Therefore, the Swedish Environmental Party has pushed through a special investment in railway maintenance of SEK 720 million. During the pandemic, the government has also supported the regional public transport authorities, which finance regional rail traffic, with SEK 5 billion – SEK 3 billion for 2020 and SEK 2 billion for 2021. We have also recently achieved a reduction in rail charges during the pandemic of SEK 1.37 billion. These are very important measures, both to deal with the consequences of the reduced travel during the pandemic and to make use of the opportunity for increased maintenance that has also appeared during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Both in the previous national plan and in the infrastructure bill now on the table, the Green Party and the Social Democrats have made specific increases in rail maintenance. The national plan for 2018–2029 allocated EUR 125 billion, which was then EUR 40 billion more than in the infrastructure bill of the previous alliance government. And even in the current infrastructure bill, we are making an increase of another 40 billion to 165 billion for the period 2022 – 2033. These are important efforts that will make trains more punctual in the long term. But, Madam President, during the year rail maintenance has become the focus, not only in a positive sense. I am pleased that, on my initiative, the Transport Committee produced a follow-up report on rail maintenance, including an international comparison. In it we also pointed out, among other things, that it is serious that Trafikverket lacks a modern building register, which means that the agency currently finds it difficult to ensure efficient use of resources in the maintenance of the infrastructure. The Swedish National Audit Office has also reviewed the Swedish Transport Administration's procurement of railway maintenance. This has been explained here before. The Swedish National Audit Office studied 31 different contracts for basic maintenance of railways that ran between 2007 and 2019. Of them, 28 had a higher final cost compared to the tender price. The average cost increase was 74 per cent, although the trend is towards minor cost deviations at the end of the period studied. So, as my colleague from the Social Democrats Mr Jasenko has pointed out, a large part of the contracts during the period under review had been concluded under the then alliance government. The Government has welcomed the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and agrees that the Swedish Transport Administration needs to take measures to gain better control of its procurements. This goes without saying, because it is a serious criticism. The Government has therefore also commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to analyse its basis for procurements and how cost increases can be counteracted in railway maintenance. The purpose of this is to ensure that the funds allocated by the State are used effectively so that costs can be offset. Not least, one should also look at the issue of unbalanced bidding. The assignment will be presented to the Government Office by 2 July 2021 – relatively soon, Madam President. It has been known for a long time that the Swedish Transport Administration needs better control of its facility in order for railway maintenance to be better and more cost-effective. In its response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Government states that it considers that since railway maintenance was re-regulated and exposed to full competition, the market for basic maintenance has not partly developed in a direction that is sustainable in the long term. I can only agree. In order for Trafikverket to get better control of the facility, basic maintenance needs to be carried out under Trafikverket's own control. The Government has conducted an investigation in this direction and announces in its letter to the Swedish National Audit Office's report that it intends to return to the matter. Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus from the Moderates stood earlier here in the speaker's chair and argued that socio-economic assessments must have a greater impact on which railway objects are being carried out. I wonder if she is familiar with the problems that are well-known throughout the industry with regard to the Swedish Transport Administration's socio-economic assessments and which often lead to underestimation of the benefits of investing in the railways. Objects such as Citytunneln in Malmö or Tvärbanan in Stockholm were not initially considered profitable but proved to be of course of great benefit and profitability. Although the Finnish Transport Administration itself believes that it is important to remember that the socio-economic calculations are only one of several bases, the socio-economic calculations are used as bats in the debate and as truths, especially by parties like the Moderates. I and the Environmental Party believe that the Swedish Transport Administration needs to develop its socio-economic calculations and assessments and make it clear that it is precisely calculations and assessments that are involved, and they are based on a number of different assumptions about how the world will develop. Not least, it is about expectations of growth, interest rates and so on. Therefore, other forecasting models also need to be used and developed. One way to do this could be to apply other models next to the models that the Swedish Transport Administration uses today and report the results together. In this way it would be highlighted that there are several models for calculations, and it would be easier to discuss what differences exist between the models. Madam President, I would like Of course, we should be careful when making decisions about large investments in infrastructure that will serve Sweden for a long time. However, we must not make our decisions on faulty or inadequate grounds. The Finnish Transport Administration's basic forecasts also tend to seriously underestimate the development of rail travel. This is also a basis for prioritising infrastructure interventions. I can see that, although decisions have been taken on the basis of incorrect forecasts, rail travel has increased sharply in recent decades, and it needs to increase even more in the future. More people and more goods need to be moved to rail if we are to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. Then the capacity of the railways needs to be increased, disruptions reduced and travel times shortened. Madam President, I would like Of course, I have a lot more to say about the railways, but here are my eight minutes at a great end. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-423	Madam President, I would like My question will be about working versus theoretical environmental policy. 90 per cent of all transport, or more precisely 90 per cent of all goods, that come to Sweden go by sea. 90% of all goods transported in Sweden are on their way. The government and several representatives of the government parties often talk about the transfer of goods from road to rail. There is a policy of reducing fees, investing and investing in maintenance, although maintenance has been too low. One of the first questions I asked the political secretary I had the privilege of working with when I came as new to the Riksdag was: What if we assume the hypothesis that we increase the freight flow by 100 percent, based on 2018 figures? For television viewers and others, I would like to explain that it is therefore a question of doubling the amount that goes by rail. What would be the results on the road? This will mean an 8% reduction, provided that everything goes from road to rail. It is a matter of violent investment if we are to succeed in moving so much goods. And yet there's not much cargo. Then I come to my question, which is precisely about this with working versus theoretical environmental policy. Perhaps the Green Party is the stronger advocates of the railways. But how much are you prepared to invest in rail in order to actually achieve a serious change in transport? 100% increase in rail transport means 8% reduction in road transport.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-428	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that a commitment to railways is 100% effective environmental policy. It is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. After all, we are in an emergency for the climate. In order to reduce our emissions, first by 70% from domestic transport by 2030 and then achieve our climate targets of net zero emissions from the transport sector by 2045, we must turn all the stones around. We must also attack all modes of transport. Not least, we need a transfer from road and air to rail and shipping. I would like to correct Magnus Jacobsson's figures. He tells us that only 10% of people travel by train. I think he's mixed up the numbers a little bit. It is 10% of passenger transport that goes on trains. In the case of freight transport, however, it is just over 20%. I looked at these figures on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website just before I went up in the speaker's chair, so I should have understood them correctly. It is important to remember that rail freight transport in particular is of great benefit. Each freight train corresponds to a number of trucks that would otherwise burden our road network and lead to large emissions. In order to develop the possibility of transporting more goods by rail, we must also invest in expanding railways throughout Sweden. That's why we need the main tracks. You can count on a double track corresponding to about 15 lane files. The question is what future we are looking at. Is it a future where we are efficient and transport goods in a climate-smart and sustainable way on the railways, or do we see 15-lane motorways ahead of us?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-433	Madam President, I would like I want to start by being clear that I do not intend to fight over the figures with Emma. Because I think she's been doing the right thing. But it's still what I said before. In 2018, we looked at the amount of freight that went on trains and imagined that we doubled it. Then we compared with what it would mean if we took that amount from road traffic. That was 8%. So this is about three years of economic growth. It's three years online. In fact, what is happening now is that there is more movement. We have had a professor, Maria Bratt Börjesson, with us in the Transport Committee. She has also been out giving lectures elsewhere. In her research, she states that we do not see any transfer. What we see is that freight flows are increasing in relation to trade, and so it is increasing equally. It increases about as much on the road, on shipping, by rail and by air. The amount increases, but it is fairly evenly distributed. The question then arises: What vision do we have? One vision is to constantly point to rail, but it will not solve environmental problems. And so there is the vision that we Christian Democrats have: to switch fuel! I listened to the Centre Party's speech earlier. There was talk of hydrogen and electricity for all vehicles: electrifying aviation, electrifying cars, entering hydrogen, bringing in biofuels and using the forest industry in a positive way! But then we must take the view that all modes of transport are needed. The policy of the government and the Green Party does not hold up here.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-437	Madam President, I would like I see a future in which we have a transport system based on 100% renewable energy. Many sections of society will have to change, not only the transport sector but also industry and other things. Then the demand for sustainable and renewable energy will also increase. How are we going to deal with this? Well, we have to be effective in how much energy we use and what we use energy for. I would therefore like to focus on modes of transport that are highly efficient in terms of energy intensity. Here the railway is absolutely superior, if one compares energy intensity between different modes of transport. It's much more efficient than a plane and a truck. That is precisely why it is important that we invest in a transfer. You might think that 8% is not that much, and I will not question that figure. However, I have overestimated, and if we have about 10 000 billion tonne-kilometres, there are an enormous number of truck loads we could move over to the railways if we got a doubling of rail freight. Of course, we need to expand the railways in Sweden if we are to have a large transfer and a large increase in transport. We also need to work on the competitive situation between the modes of transport, and here the Green Party is clear. We want to see a distance-based tax on lorry traffic that makes it more profitable to drive goods by rail than to drive goods on long-distance routes on lorries. We will also need lorries in the future, not least in regional transport. But for the really long-distance transport, it is completely unnecessary for Skåne to be a thoroughfare for truck traffic.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-443	Madam President, I would like I agree with Emma Berginger that it may be appropriate to review the socio-economic calculations that we have as a basis to ensure that they really provide a good basis for ranking different projects. But forecasts are quite different. We need stable socio-economic calculations based on research in order to make the right priorities. Madam President, I would like That is not why I took the line, but I was going to try again because Emma Berginger belongs to the government base and I did not get the answer from Jasenko Omanovic. These are the three clear shortcomings raised by Gunnar Alexandersson's study: there are no systems to gain knowledge of the status of the railway, there is no national maintenance plan and there are no procedures to follow up maintenance contracts. As I said, I have looked in regulatory letters and other things to see what the government has done after the investigation came in April 2015, and I cannot find any concrete measures. I also see nothing about it in the answer to the Swedish National Audit Office's review. Therefore, my question is: can Emma Berginger explain what the government has done to overcome the three shortcomings that Gunnar Alexandersson pointed out?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-448	Madam President, I would like When Alexandersson's investigation came in 2015, the Social Democrats and the Green Party had been in government for about six months. Most of the information on which his investigation was based was therefore from the time of the alliance government. Nevertheless, I will try to answer Maria Stockhaus's question. The Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to develop a long-term maintenance plan during this term, and we currently have a four-year maintenance plan. I wish it had been longer, because I think we need a further long-term perspective. However, we note that there is a maintenance plan in place which sets priorities and engages in dialogue with the industry about the maintenance efforts to be made. So to the system to follow up the railway facility. Here there are criticisms both from the Swedish National Audit Office and from the committee in the report we produced during the year about, among other things, railway maintenance. In its response, the Government also points out that system support for plant is extremely important in order to be able to monitor and carry out effective maintenance. The Government considers that the Swedish Transport Administration needs to remedy this. As regards monitoring maintenance contracts, the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that clear systems are needed for this. However, it is extremely resource-intensive to follow up contracts, and for this very reason more basic maintenance on its own would have been preferable.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-452	Madam President, I would like The investigation was a finding of status in April 2015. Whether it's history or not, it ended up in the government's lap, and much of the criticism remains in the report from the Swedish National Audit Office that came in 2020. I can't see that there are any major demands on Trafikverket to develop the IT support needed. When the Swedish Transport Administration received this criticism in 2020 they said a little carelessly that there were no such systems in the world, which was then refuted several times. There is, but Trafikverket hasn't got it. Maintenance contracts shall be followed up regardless of who performs the maintenance. You have to follow up on the fact that what you have agreed on has actually been done – even if you do it on your own. You can't get away with this. Those who work with maintenance have not noticed the 720 million extra. It is strange that so much money is spent on maintenance without companies that have quite a large part of the railway maintenance market noticing it. Doesn't that worry Emma Berginger?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-456	Madam President, I would like As regards the issue of IT support, the Government fully agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism and is thus clear on what is expected of the Swedish Transport Administration. Of course, you should have some form of follow-up of maintenance regardless of whether it is done in your own or external direction. However, the follow-up of an external actor means that you need to obtain and review information and have legal expertise and backup in a completely different way than you need to have in an internal organisation. It is precisely the knowledge of the state of its own facility that has been a major problem for Trafikverket and is difficult to possess if it is not the one who continuously performs track maintenance. One must then add another person who should be out just to gain knowledge of the facility, and it will be quite ineffective, as the President will understand. Am I worried that not all railway workers can tell the difference with the 720 million? I am quite convinced that the 720 million have done a great deal of good in the railway plant, but I think it may be difficult for individual actors to see the overall picture and the difference. The 720 million is also an extra investment during the pandemic in order to strengthen maintenance. In total, SEK 165 billion will be allocated for maintenance over the next twelve years.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-461	I note that the members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism exceeded the reported speaking time by 25 to 65%.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-464	Madam President, I would like How can the government be satisfied? In recent years, the regulatory burden on the country's entrepreneurs has increased. It has become more difficult to live up to laws and rules. The cost of the regulatory problem has increased by perhaps SEK 1 billion each year in recent years. So it is reasonable to ask the question: How can the government be content with the system of things? To be honest, this is both wine and water. There are advantages and problems. For example, it is a great advantage that we have well-functioning institutions in Sweden. For example, it is very easy to start a business. At the same time, we can see that many entrepreneurs bear witness to the fact that they find it difficult, for example, to have tax problems, difficult labour market rules or that local regulations to obtain, for example, a permit to issue a permit, a building permit for an outdoor service or other things can take time and cost a lot of money. Not infrequently, the fees for equivalent permits can distinguish a lot – thousands of crowns or more – between different municipalities. In the end, the government's increased regulatory burden means that entrepreneurs need to spend more time on administration and less time developing their businesses and selling. Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurs are the mainstay of society, as is often said. I think it is important to take this starting point and note that it is entrepreneurs who, with their companies, ultimately ensure that we secure welfare funding in Sweden. It is their money that enables us to finance, for example, police and school. It is therefore important that we encourage entrepreneurs and give them the right conditions. It is their work that brings new products and services to the development of our society, that people can get into work and that there are tax crowns. They're heroes and mainstays. Simplifying for businesses and entrepreneurs is therefore, I believe, both reasonable and necessary. From experience we know that the times that Sweden has succeeded with the intention to make it easier for its entrepreneurs, it has been paired with clear political leadership. An example is Maud Olofsson, who during her time as a minister repeatedly talked about and, I think many thought, almost worn in the message that the hassle would decrease. And it had an effect. Regrettably, we can now see that developments in recent years are going in the wrong direction. It is not only Moderates who say this, but experts who have evaluated. The problem is increasing, and the costs are increasing. I would say that there is a lack of leadership. The clearest evidence is that the government, despite having received concrete simplification proposals from the Swedish Agency for Growth, for example, does not return with these to the Riksdag. It has been promised to return with a letter to Parliament with simplification objectives, but it does not. The costs have increased by 1 billion per year since 2014, and the problem has increased. What should happen then? I would say that the starting point is that the government must give more priority to simplification of the rules for entrepreneurs than it is today. I believe that a new simplification policy objective must be put in place. I think that Sweden must make better use of IT solutions to streamline the state and contacts that we as citizens but also entrepreneurs can have. I think we should find more inspiration among the best countries in Europe, not least countries such as Estonia and Denmark, from which we can learn a lot. I think that the government should implement the parliamentary decisions that are linked, for example, to the website V erksamt.se and to the project Serverat. It is also about concrete industrial policy decisions. One such area is mining policy. It is easy for a minister to talk about how it should be easy to run a business, but then we should remember that on the Minister's table are ready applications to open new mines in Norrbotten. There the government has even been convicted by the Constitutional Committee because, as the KU said, there was not a single procedure for three years. It is easy to talk about someone else making things easier and simpler, but I would say: Walk the talk! It is about being an example and showing leadership, and then it must be connected. What happens now? Too little. The problem increases, costs increase and simplification proposals such as targets and concrete proposals do not come to Parliament. And the KU has even convicted the Minister of Enterprise. So the reasonable question is: How can the government be content with the system of things? Parliament will vote on the proposals that are now on the table if one day. Anyone who wants to immerse themselves in this can look at proposals that both the Moderates and other parties have put forward. We have a long list that stands in the heart of the government's proposal. Among other things, we want more authorities to be given simplification tasks. We believe that the government should regularly come to Parliament and talk about what has been done in concrete terms to make them responsible. We believe that the principle that a new rule should replace an old one should be a guide to legislative work. We cannot vote on everything, and I would like to vote for time-winning approval only for reservation number 19. The Moderates' proposal is about what is called the implementation council. There we as a party have taken inspiration from how they have done in Denmark. The Danish Implementation Council was introduced in 2015 with, as it was stated, the task of contributing to the process of over-implementing EU directives into Danish legislation. The aim of the Council is to safeguard Denmark's competitiveness. The work is based on some guiding principles: firstly, not to exceed the minimum requirements of the EU acquis; secondly, that the legislation should not disadvantage Danish companies; thirdly, that opt-out opportunities should be used whenever possible; fourthly, to try to use alternatives other than new rules when implementing new legislation; and fifthly, to look at whether it is possible to delay implementation as far as possible so that industry can adapt. I think, Madam President, that Sweden should do like Denmark and that we should draw inspiration from their implementation council. There are authorities with the business community on the basis of doing what is best for Danish companies. I think we could have a Swedish starting point in the same way, and therefore it is an important and good step along with the other to introduce an implementation council. It would break the government's passivity and lack of leadership in the field of regulatory simplification.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-478	Madam President, I would like For a long time, the regulatory burden has increased for the Swedish business community, as have the costs of the same and for the additional administration. The costs have risen annually by billions for the Swedish business community. The Swedish democrats have therefore repeatedly campaigned for relief in this area. We have proposed structural changes concerning, for example, a new regime for regulatory implementation and a halt to the over-implementing of EU directives. However, we have also criticised individual unjustified rules such as the dance state and the hotel state. If, before the pandemic, the government had carried out active regulatory simplification work and put an end to the over-implementing of EU directives, among other things, it would have made it easier for the business community once the consequences of the pandemic had affected it. It can only be regretted that this did not happen. However, it is remarkable that the government has not taken the opportunity now, during the pandemic, to carry out active and comprehensive regulatory simplification work. For a year, parts of the business community have been hard-pressed and have become directly dependent on the support measures that the opposition has managed to push through. It is possible to discuss the accuracy of the support measures, their size and the length of their processing, but they have been needed. As we emerge from the pandemic, they will need to be stepped off and artificial breathing will end. In order to facilitate restarting, structural changes are needed to ensure that it is not hampered by costly and unjustified regulatory burden and administration. Unfortunately, the government has not acted in favour of this during the pandemic despite both time and proposals, not least the proposals from the final report of the simplification journey. Instead, the work has stopped completely. The government has repeatedly blamed the missed regulatory simplification work on the pandemic. But do not misunderstand me, Madam President. I have every respect and understanding that the pandemic has been a great test for both the government and the parliament, but not least for Swedish citizens and companies. No one can blame the government for not prioritising regulatory simplification in the very beginning of the pandemic, in the then prevailing chaotic forms. Nor can it be said that active regulatory simplification would be the most appropriate measure to take at an early stage to support the affected traders. On the other hand, it is directly clear that active regulatory simplification, combined with structural and process changes in this area, will allow for a faster recovery of the affected parts of the economy. Once we reopen society, it would be directly devastating if the government were still to fail in this area. We have missed an excellent opportunity to implement much-needed measures. Perhaps the clearest example of the government's failure in this area is the lack of new objectives for simplification policy. They should have been included in the autumn budget but have not yet been presented to Parliament. Time and again they have been postponed, and now they will only be dealt with in Parliament after the summer due to the government's snail speed. In other words, they risk being delayed for a whole year. Madam President, I would like This criticism is by no means new on my part, but I and the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly been on the government on these issues. However, it can stand to be highlighted in this context now that we are debating the report 'Simplifying the regulatory environment for businesses'. This report contains a number of reservations from the Swedish Democrats and others who make further suggestions as to how we believe the government should act to really get started with the simplification of the rules. Now, no announcements appear to be addressed to the government, but looking at how the government has chosen to completely ignore previous announcements in this area, it may still not play a major role. Nevertheless, the government does not seem to take the work seriously. In fact, the government seems to have decided not to carry out any regulatory simplification work, despite the fact that the Riksdag has told the government what we think it should do and despite the fact that there are a lot of proposals in this area that have been received from both the simplification journey and other investigations and reports, and even more are to be expected in the near future. Well, on the part of the Swedish Democrats, we will continue to be on the government in this important area, and in the event of a change of power after the next elections, I am convinced that the issues will not only be prioritised but also that there is a relatively high degree of consensus on the issues within the Conservative bloc, but also among other parties who, unfortunately, have chosen to lie flat for the Social Democracy this parliamentary term. Madam President, I would like In our reservations, the report highlights, among other things, the need for an evaluation of the simplification work. The evaluation should include, for example, the design of the regulatory letters of the authorities regarding directives and mandates to work on regulatory simplification, the current organisational solution where the Council is part of the Swedish Agency for Growth and other things. We also highlight the need for a coherent process in this area. The government must create a more coherent process with the aim of keeping together and running the regulatory simplification work, both in the Government Office and in the authorities. We highlight the need for an annual letter in order to reverse the negative trend and focus on strengthening regulatory simplification by means of a special annual letter in which the Government reports back to the Riksdag on how the work on regulatory simplification and reduction of bureaucracy is done. Not least is this important as we see how the government regularly tries to avoid implementing the regulatory simplification that the Riksdag has decided on. We also highlight the need for an implementation council. We believe that a reasonable measure to counteract over-implementing EU rules is that the government establishes an implementation council inspired by, among other things, Denmark and the proposals made by the Swedish Agency for Growth. These proposals, together with better impact assessments, sunset clauses, strengthened role for the Regulatory Council, a halt to over-implementing, and more, would have really enabled active and effective regulatory simplification work. I have primarily touched on process and structural proposals, which is probably what in the long term makes the greatest benefit for the Swedish business community. Nor, however, can it be avoided the need to review existing laws and regulations which do not fulfil any purpose and whose removal would facilitate individual sectors. These include the dance permit, the food permit, the hotel permit and more. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to facilitate the recovery after the pandemic. Then the simplification of the rules is and remains an important issue. Against this background, I would like to support our reservation 27 on the Rule Council and impact assessments.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-499	Madam President, I would like Tonight's topic of debate is regulatory simplification. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 28, in paragraph 18, although, of course, we support all our reservations. The main focus of my speech is five points. The first is to make higher demands on the work of public authorities regarding regulatory simplifications. The service culture of Swedish authorities is in many places good but must be developed. Attitude, response and customer focus are as important as regulations, processes and management procedures. Regrettability is a lot about leadership, governance and application. It is about applying laws and regulations in a way that reduces waiting times. Citizens and entrepreneurs have the right to require every authority to work with a service culture. But each authority has its own special conditions, and exactly how the simplification work is to be carried out in each organisation is best left to management and board of directors at the authorities. However, through governance, the government can make the authorities prioritise the development of the service culture. Over the past 10 to 15 years, there have been a great many investigations, surveys and analyses. I believe that we should be able to put this together and get a better overview of all the various proposals. I have not yet met anyone who is to complicate matters even more. Everyone says that the rules should be simplified. The second is about strengthening the Regulatory Council and conducting proper impact assessments. State intervention in the form of regulations or other measures is carried out in order to correct a problem, to prevent problems from arising or to achieve a situation that is desirable from a societal point of view. But even if a measure brings benefits, it can also impose a burden. Rules affect actors and conditions in society in different ways. The impact assessment is a tool for assessing how and in what form the outcome is when rules are introduced or changed. The third is about creating comparison indices and incentives. SKR with its principals the municipalities I think is an interesting model to see how in Authority Sweden you can actually compare and benchmark and thus take steps forward. We see it as possible to find indices and key figures to measure based on experience and knowledge and make it available. The company ranking of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise can serve as an inspiration. Over-implementing is a problem. Implementation of EU directives can be a problem for Swedish companies, especially for small companies with limited capacity to deal with complex bureaucracy. The Danish Implementation Council is interesting and should be able to be highlighted. There are reasons for Sweden to draw inspiration from the Danish model. Without reconnaissance, you'd say. International outlook is important. Industry and industry, of course, want to see reforms, and we should be able to compare Sweden with other countries. Through international benchmarking, for example, Sweden can get better and get a higher ranking in the OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook. So it can be easier for Sweden to push through the necessary changes and get inspiration from outside. Madam President, I would like Regulatory simplification is a success factor for tourism and entrepreneurship. Visitors' companies, one of the industries most affected by the coronapandemia, have regular contacts with many different authorities. It means a comprehensive disclosure. The need to provide the same information several times is burdensome for companies and costs time and money that could instead be spent on the business. Laws, rules and authorities' activities must be designed and applied in a way that minimises the administrative burden on businesses and makes it easy. Undertakings shall not be required to provide the same information several times to different authorities. Overall, there are great gains to be made, not least for the tourism industry, by creating these simplifications. Learn from good examples, such as the Rättvik model! There a municipality works actively with growth and supervision and has created better conditions – nothing else can be said about it. Finally, make greater demands on the work of public authorities with regard to regulatory simplifications! Strengthen the Rule Council, and do proper impact assessments! Create comparison indices and incentives! Over-implementing is a problem, and international outlook is important. That's my summary. In order to increase entrepreneurship and hence the basis for well-being, regulatory simplification must be made a more political priority. In the near future, the Ministry of Industry's letter on the subject is expected, and the Government's investigator will present a proposal on regulatory simplification for micro-enterprises. I therefore hope that the matter will be put on the agenda for the next Parliamentary session. This is where the work begins properly.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-514	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Per Schöldberg for his speech. We are very much in agreement on these issues. In his speech, Per Schöldberg mentions a wide range of measures on which we both agree. Among other things, it is about easier contact with the authorities, about how we will strengthen the Regulatory Council, about better impact assessments and other things. We also have a couple of common reservations in the report, which I naturally welcome. We need more parties which, not only in fine words but also in deeds, advocate more effective and better regulatory simplification. What I am somewhat concerned about, however, is what I highlighted in my speech: the snail speed at which the government has carried out its work in this area. It is therefore a complete lack of concrete examples. I have had debates with Ibrahim Baylan, among others, who have had a very difficult time pointing out a single rule that the government has simplified over the last seven years, when it has been in power. The Center Party is part of the government base through the January agreement. My question to Per Schöldberg, put in all the good sense, concerns how he views the government's regulatory simplification work and how the Center Party sees that it has failed completely during the past term of office, when the Center Party has given its active support to the Social Democratic Government. Are you satisfied with the work?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-518	Madam President, I would like There are several entrances to this. One is that last year the Center Party wrote a committee motion, that is, we highlight the issues and highlight them. The second is that we are not in the government, but we are working on the budget. The micro-investigation that I mentioned in my speech is part of JÖK, and we take responsibility for it. We're working on the questions, and I haven't actually met anyone who's trying to screw up unnecessarily. But the committee motion is really an answer that means that we want to accelerate the speed of the questions. We have seen that the tempo needs to be increased, not least in view of the legacy that I have from my party with Maud Olofsson at the forefront.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-521	Madam President, I would like Maybe it's just this legacy that's causing my lines. I am thinking of many, at least former, centre-party voters who have run businesses, not infrequently in rural areas, and have become aware of the regulatory difficulties that have hampered them and their growth potential. They may have had to close down their business activities as a consequence of the administrative burden imposed on them, not least if they have been involved in the tourism industry and suffered from all the licensing processes and other restrictions on their activities in this area. It is with this entrance that I put the question to Per Schöldberg about what the Center Party has actually managed to hear from the Social Democrats. Per Schöldberg mentions the Committee Movement of the Center Party. I welcome it, and we agree with almost all the elements. The Swedish Democrats have had a corresponding simplification exercise at least since the last parliamentary term, and it is positive that more parties now fit in with the need. But the fact remains: we have a government that has not succeeded in a single measure of simplification throughout the entire term of office during which the Center Party has supported the same government and enabled it to remain in power. It is positive that the Center Party has pushed for the micro-investigator. It will be interesting to take part of it. This history is not entirely free from problems, but it has tried to pull resources out of government and make it impossible for the investigation to be carried out in full. Now it seems to be happening, and it will be very interesting. But can Per Schöldberg point to a single proposal for a regulatory simplification that the government has implemented because they have either wanted it – which is perhaps difficult to believe – or because the Center Party has pushed for it and managed to get a hearing? And will the Center Party for the next term of office, when it has continued to express its intention to support the formation of the government of the Social Democrats, make clearer demands in this area in order to ensure that at least we will see a single simplification of the rules in the case of continued social democratic rule with the support of C?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-529	Madam President, I would like Our committee motion is highlighted, and we are pushing for it. I'm looking forward to the micro-investigator, too, and we're gonna take those steps. But for me, this is a lot about the 201 municipalities in which councillors or others rule in the majority. There I know that every day, almost 24 hours a day, our center parties work to make life easier. But there are many examples of problems. I heard that in Karlskrona during the pandemic they wanted to abolish fees linked to the Swedish Food Administration. But the Food Department said no, and you got very worried. However, our center parties, including myself, are working very actively and will continue to do so with the legacy that Maud Olofsson has delivered.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-533	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I naturally support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 11 in the report. For a year and a half now, many with me have wondered what happened to the Ministry of Economic Affairs' simplification journey that ended in autumn 2019. It is now almost a year and a half since we learned that the work was about to begin. What has happened since then? We can well note that a few months into the new year, that is to say 2020, we had reason to reschedule a lot in our planning. Pandemin came as an uninvited guest to our entire community and influenced us all. There are a five-digit number of Swedish citizens who have died so far. Many more have been ill. The vast majority have had a good recovery, but many have long - term symptoms and still suffer when they no longer need to be hospitalized. This must, of course, be the main focus. But the country still needs to be ruled, and the work needs to continue. For our business community, the pandemic has brought bankruptcies. Many have been laid off, given notice, or laid off. In order to mitigate the economic and social impact, Parliament has decided in this House on several different support packages. Much has been agreed across party boundaries, while some could have been done differently if I were asked as a Christian Democrat. In addition to providing support that is to some extent artificial breathing, it is all the more important to build counterfire to create the best possible conditions for entrepreneurship in our country. Against this background, Minister Baylan's simplification journey has become even more urgent than any of us in here knew in autumn 2019. What has really happened since the minister unpacked his suitcase in November of that year? What proposals have we seen? What concrete measures have been presented? These questions are relevant and important, but so far they are unanswered. Madam President, I would like I have the privilege of listening to people around me who, without any courtesy filter, dare and want to tell me what it actually feels like to be an entrepreneur. These are entrepreneurs who also talk about the challenges of the rules that exist and what has arisen during the pandemic. I try to do my very best to listen, mentalise and then shape a policy that makes it easier to start, run and develop businesses. It is against this background that it is so extremely important to seriously make a balanced analysis of what all the rules, laws and regulations mean for the individual entrepreneur. Sometimes it feels almost like the government parties consider the entrepreneurs' time as a free service that you can call off freely without considering that time actually costs money. The fewer and more appropriate regulations companies have to relate to, the easier it is for companies to do the right thing and to focus on their core business. Fewer and simpler rules also reduce administrative costs for individual companies, which benefit society as a whole. Madam President, I would like Regulatory activities are carried out by a wide range of public actors. I would say that coordination is so bad that companies find it difficult to get an overview of the rules that apply and what actions and regulatory changes are under way and planned in the future. Instead of collecting relevant information in one place, companies are forced to search in different places, and it is often difficult to form an idea of which rules apply and how to do right. I would therefore like to point out that a central platform for this type of information can make it more transparent for companies when different regulatory work starts and ends and how to make comments. I believe that such a platform can also strengthen the entrepreneurial perspective in regulation and counteract problems such as companies being given little time to adapt to new rules. I put this question in this House to our Minister for Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. The answer was that this already exists – you can see it on the government's website. I don't really think it was this answer that the entrepreneurs out there expected when they talked about this common platform and how to give feedback. Another measure that I see as important for reducing the regulatory burden on businesses is something that many others have talked about in here, namely the creation of a simplification forum. There are experiences here from our Danish neighbours. Sweden should set up a simplification forum inspired by the other side of Öresund. Madam President, I would like If I as a citizen of Sweden do not do what the authorities want me to do, it can have consequences. For example, if I want to expand my home, I need to apply for a building permit for it. If I build without the necessary decisions, there will be severe fines. Everyone with an income is expected to declare, and this should be done within a certain time limit – otherwise you have to pay a heavy late fee. I think it's okay that it works that way, as a principle, but it's not so obvious that this is a mutual relationship. What happens if an authority does not do the right thing, or at least does not do the right thing in time, towards a citizen? Apart from the fact that the individual citizen is expected to tie his fist in his pants pocket, nothing happens. There is a great deal to be said about this imbalance between state and citizen. Madam President, I would like For many companies it is necessary to have contact with authorities on various issues. This may involve different permits needed to run the business or other types of data to be provided when a company is going to start or grow. I would like to emphasise that the services provided by the authorities to companies can be absolutely crucial to the development of a company and that significant steps need to be taken to make contacts with the authorities more flexible and to make the administration of the authorities more predictable. To overcome this, there should be clearly defined and timed guarantees as to what service an entrepreneur can expect from the authorities. It should also be regulated how companies are to be compensated if an authority is unable to comply with this guarantee. In this connection, I would particularly like to point out that, throughout the 2010s, Swedish industry has had a negative development in relation to industry in countries similar to Sweden, which can partly be attributed to the long permit processes of government agencies. Apart from the fact that this is a question of competitiveness, it is a question of the climate. It is not only strategic environmental projects but the entire innovation and development chain of Swedish industries that are hampered by the Swedish permit processes, which in many ways originate in an environmental and climate policy that discourages Swedish industrial production. There is therefore reason to carry out a major review of the investigation organisation that stands in the way of reducing the scope of permit processes and thus shortening them. In conclusion, Madam President, I believe that the government should examine the possibility of introducing so-called service guarantees for businesses in order to contribute to a faster and more qualitative and predictable public service. The government should also take the necessary measures to shorten the industry's permit processes.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-555	Madam President, I would like Let's say you have a handful of rabbits in as many cages and then decide you want more rabbits. You think about how to do it. You have five rabbits and you want 10, 20 or 30 rabbits. You just want growth. For example, you can put out more salt stones, find softer and finer hay, or buy more fodder. You can try to push it into the cages and hope that the rabbits gag in themselves everything, but there won't be any more rabbits for that. They're gonna grow. Some will get fat and a little tired. Someone else may simply not be able to do it. Instead you could open the cages and let the rabbits meet each other, so to speak – then there are usually more rabbits. One could remove the obstacles that stand in the way of the rabbits themselves dealing with the problem of wanting more rabbits. Perhaps one could also go out into the forest edge outside the rabbit farm and shoot off some foxes, so that no one comes and chews the rabbits. Then I think most rabbits – the rabbits that are good and good and have the future – would be able to find food on their own. They themselves find a small stream. Maybe they'll find the carrot land. They find some creative way to feed. Vips, we've got more rabbits! Madam President, I would like This history illustrates the difference between liberal and socialist industrial policy. It could be argued that the debate on simplification that we have here today is really the most important debate on economic policy that we have throughout the parliamentary year, because that is what is at the heart of it. If you are a socialist, you think that you can get more and more well-functioning businesses and a better and more well-functioning economy by pampering out a lot of contributions – by providing a little more dry fodder, a little more salt stones and a little more water. But you never let businesses go, you always keep them under strict control in their cages. It does not combat what is a threat to entrepreneurs – in history, it is foxes – in the form of unfair competition, far too high taxes or excessive regulatory burden, but it believes that it will be possible to engage in subsidy policies. But, Madam President, enterprising people are not really very interested in this type of enterprise policy. And this kind of enterprise policy is not really very effective, because if you do not remove the obstacles, it will never lead anywhere at all. That is why liberal enterprise policy is more about tearing down barriers, opening cages, shooting foxes and ensuring that entrepreneurial people are free to create prosperity and growth. It is absolutely crucial, Madam President, that we have a great deal of regulatory simplification in this country for competition with the outside world. If we have narrower cages, more foxes in the forest and tougher rules than our surrounding world, Swedish companies will not be able to make their way in global competition. We will see a decline in prosperity if we do not settle the regulatory burden. Madam President, I would like This is incredibly important to the whole country. If we want all parts of the country to live, if we want there to be thriving economies throughout Sweden, then we need to simplify the rules, remove rules and hassles and let people's own creative power go free. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, which can be experienced long but which in the long run is a short period, some support has been necessary for entrepreneurship to be kept under the wing. It's been a wintering. However, if we want more entrepreneurs and a more well-functioning business sector for small, large and medium-sized enterprises, we need structural changes with fewer rules and reduced regulatory burdens. One thing that can be done, of course, is to keep the many regulatory simplifications that have been made in municipalities around the country as a result of Corona. It has been mentioned here earlier in the debate, the tourism industry and the catering industry, sectors that are generally very severely affected by regulatory problems. It's industries that employ a lot of young people but which are falling under a very heavy regulatory burden. There have been regulatory simplifications – longer opening hours, earlier openings of summer outdoor cafés and easier to obtain permits – which after Corona should remain, so we can bring about a structural change. Madam President, I would like We have a number of reservations in this report. One is that it is a huge burden for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular that public authorities are poor at sharing information with each other. You have to bring the same information to several different places. In addition, there may be situations where information has been provided to one authority, but another authority does not know what the first authority is doing. That puts you in a very difficult situation. We believe that this should be a way in. If you have communicated an information to an authority, you should not have to make it more. Another point in the report is that when authorities come up with new rules, introduce new regulatory burdens and risk further burdening down businesses, we think it is necessary to carry out a serious impact study that looks at how the regulatory burden is going to hit entrepreneurs, what the financial consequences are. And, Madam President, if it is concluded that it has financial consequences for entrepreneurs, as most rules have, then the Council must have the right to speak at every opportunity. I support all our reservations, but in order to gain time at the vote, I only ask for one, reservation number 24, which is about one rule in, one rule out. It is about setting a ceiling for the regulatory burden in Sweden. We have seen for many years how the regulatory burden is increasing and increasing. I do not mean that I like every single rule, but of course it goes for someone to justify every single rule. It's just that it's the total mass of rules that weighs down the individual entrepreneur. Against this background, Madam President, it is not always possible to judge each rule individually, but to see it structurally. Therefore, we believe that we should have as a rule in Sweden – this is a rule that I like – that if we politicians, we as the Swedish Government, introduce a rule, we should have to remove a rule so that the overall regulatory burden at least does not increase. Then, of course, it should be reduced, but it is at least a guarantee that we will not have any more regulatory problems. There will also be pressure on us politicians and authorities to streamline regulations rather than just make up new rules all the time. With this, Madam President, as I said, I am in favour of our reservation 24.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-574	Madam President, I would like The report of the Industry Committee, No 17, which we are now debating, is therefore a matter of regulatory simplification for businesses. It may seem to be an issue that concerns only a few entrepreneurs, but nothing can be more wrong. Basically, our business environment is important, because it creates growth in our country. As a result, it is also involved in funding both our welfare system and our community building. I am pleased that the government is working actively on these issues. I therefore support the proposal in report NU17 and reject the motions. Madam President, I would like Everyone realizes that the pandemic has exposed society's strengths and weaknesses. Now that we are slowly returning to normality, Sweden should not return to what it looked like before the crisis, but together we must build a stronger and better society. In this work it is important that everyone has a job to go to. In this way, nutrition policy is extremely important, and it is also important to simplify the rules. As always, jobs are the foundation of a strong society. When we entered Corona, we did so with 300 000 more people in work compared to 2014. When crises strike, it is usually ordinary employees who take the fall. During the Corona crisis, the government and the cooperation parties have delivered policies that protect both employees and companies. I am pleased that our Prime Minister so clearly states that what Sweden needs now, and what Sweden will use the strength of our economy for, is to implement a powerful green restart package. It includes more employees in welfare, new broadband fibre and new housing, but it also includes renovation of roads and railways. Many of the companies that have overwintered during the crisis will want and will be able to grow. It is important to have a sensible incentive policy here, but it is also important to have a sensible industrial policy that leads to growth. In this, regulatory simplification is a very important element. We know that four out of five jobs come in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also these companies that are most affected by regulatory problems. That is why regulatory simplification is also part of an active job creation policy. Madam President, I would like As announced in the budget proposal for 2021, the Government is working to develop new objectives for simplification policy. I am sure that there will be continuity in the objectives that were set in 2012. Basically, it is a matter of holding back the costs that companies pay to comply with rules. The Minister for Industry himself has spoken here in Parliament's speaker's chair that the new objectives and simplification policy as a whole must work to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, while at the same time improving the capacity for change and innovation. Minister of Industry Ibrahim Baylan has been very clear about the importance of regulatory simplification. His simplification journey has also led to a number of problem areas being submerged. Among other things, it has been about problems that entrepreneurs encounter in contact with authorities and municipalities. And I am pleased that the work on shortening the administrative time and improving the supervisory review of municipalities is now being pursued with vigour. For example, an investigation is now in place to review the environmental assessment according to the Environmental Code. In addition, the county administrative boards have the task of improving the performance of their public authority. This is important for many entrepreneurs. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Growth has the task of producing more concrete proposals, as a consequence of the simplification journey. Then we know, as several Members have mentioned here in the speaker's chair, that companies perceive the rules to be more complicated and that the costs of managing rules are increasing. That is something we must take seriously. At the same time, we know that this is not an easy question. The Alliance government, which sat between 2006 and 2014, led by Maud Olofsson, talked a lot about regulatory simplification and did very well. At the same time, however, we can see from the statistics that costs increased even during that period, and companies felt that the rules became more complicated. I have said this before in this House, and I say it again: the way forward on these issues is about broad cooperation rather than about regulatory simplification becoming a political blunder, which I perceive they have become here this evening. In short, I hope and believe and feel confident that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on these issues, and I think that is a good basis for taking steps forward. Both the OECD and the Industry Regulatory Board and other important organisations have highlighted the importance of carrying out sectoral regulatory reviews. Therefore, I am extremely pleased that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to review the overall regulation in the food sector. It's important, it's right, and it's necessary. I am convinced that this mission will make a difference. Madam President, I would like As a social democrat with faith in the future, I am convinced that there is still great potential when we talk about digitalisation linked to regulatory simplification. I am thinking, among other things, of the fact that it is possible to continue to develop V erksamt.se. In addition, I am convinced that better implementation of EU rules is a future key. We know that 90% of the new rules come from the EU. The government has also set up an investigation to propose regulatory simplifications for micro-enterprises. An investigation has been set up to review how the Accounting Act can be simplified. I believe that these investigations will lead to a reduction in the regulatory burden. These examples show, however, that the change does not come through classy formulations here in the Swedish parliament but through hard work deep down in the toolbox. These are some examples of regulatory improvements. These are the new objectives, sectoral review, investigation of the Accounting Act, investigation of micro-enterprises, investigation of environmental testing linked to the Environmental Code and, moreover, review of supervision. It is concrete reforms that are now being worked on and that will make a difference. So, Madam President, we should not dress in sackcloth and ashes. Sweden has a good business environment. And for years we have subscribed to ten-in-the-top placements in various rankings in terms of competitiveness, such as the OECD index. This type of index measures different things – infrastructure, health, education, innovation, but also regulations. The reason I am raising this is that we have to stick together the two issues. Competitiveness and regulatory simplification are interrelated. In 2018 we Social Democrats chose to give small businesses and entrepreneurs better opportunities to grow and develop, to increase opportunities for companies to finance their expansion, to simplify the regulations so that more companies could grow and hire and that Sweden would continue to be a strong start-up country. The issues we are talking about here today are central to all these promises and central to Sweden's future being a knowledge-intensive nation at the forefront of innovation and digitalisation. I am glad that Sweden has a government that sees that connection. I hope and believe, Madam President, that Sweden's Parliament can push back the legal uncertainty and unnecessary rules across the bloc. But then we need to continue to develop cooperation in the Swedish parliament. I hope that I can shape the work on regulatory simplifications postcorona.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-600	Madam President, I would like I think that this question should be asked: how can the government's representatives be so satisfied? Mathias Tegnér says: The government is actively working on regulatory simplification. Allow me to doubt! We can look at the results for the last seven years. Costs have increased by billions each year. There's been an increase in the regulatory burden. So it is not just the Moderates who say this. Entrepreneurial organisations and individual entrepreneurs also say so. It is true that the pandemic has recently affected and produced devastating results for business and, of course, health in the country. But we can pull the line over the term of office and beyond. Then we can see that the Swedish Agency for Growth has come up with what is called the growth journey, but no proposals have come from the growth journey to the Swedish parliament. During its term of office, it has been working to replace the previous simplification policy objectives. But the government has not brought such a thing to the Riksdag at all. Mathias Tegnér talks about working together. Yes, we have formed majorities from the Committee on Economic Affairs to push through proposals for regulatory simplification. For example, it is about developing V erksamt.se and Serverat and setting requirements for authorities about cut-off processing times. None of this has been delivered by the government. Mathias Tegnér talks about various investigations. I won't question it. I can only say that during this parliamentary term there have been zero legislative proposals that can change for companies in this area. Then, Madam President, the question is: how can the government be so very pleased when it has delivered so little and when problems and costs for the country's entrepreneurs are increasing?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-605	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! As I have said before, Lars Hjälmered is a very good debater. What I understand is that one of the problems is that the honourable Member chooses to speak only part of the truth. First of all, this is exactly what Lars Helmered says. The pandemic has hit the world and Sweden hard. Over the past year, the government and the cooperation parties have presented historically large measures which have also involved significant financial contributions. That work has taken all the power at the Ministry of Enterprise. I am convinced that the EUR 200 billion of direct aid in 2020 – and EUR 250 billion in guarantees and EUR 230 billion in liquidity support – are extremely important to keep the business community under the wing of this crisis. I am convinced that this is a real priority. We cannot ignore that today. We can then look at some of the points raised by the honourable Member. It is true that the cost of regulation has increased over the last eight years. What the Member Lars Helmered forgets to report is that the development went in the same direction during the period 2006– 2014, when the Member Lars Helmered actually sat in the Riksdag and we had a bourgeois government. In addition, investigations have pointed out that what companies are working with at the moment is the application of rules. It is more about it than the need for new laws. I am therefore convinced that the sectoral review of the food sector, for example, will lead to regulatory simplification. This is far more important than new legislative proposals.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-609	Madam President, I would like I do not question Mathias Tegnér's intention to do this with sectoral reviews and other areas. The only problem is that the Minister for Economic Affairs does not come up with a single bill to Parliament that can fundamentally simplify for the country's entrepreneurs. I do not think that any of us are questioning the priority of the last year, when more than 14 000 people in Sweden have died as an effect of covid. There's a focus on saving businesses and saving jobs. However, looking at the line over the legislative term, I have to say that I find it problematic that the Minister for Economic Affairs has promised simplification policy objectives but that it is drawn in the long line. We talk about ambition and say that we are investigating, but there are no proposals. Good initiatives are being taken: to give the Swedish Agency for Growth a mission to work with simplification and advice in the country. And there's a long list of suggestions about hotel permits, staffiers and many other things. But nothing is being done. Once again, we have made parliamentary decisions in which we say that we think that V erksamt.se with the project Serverat and other parts should be developed to facilitate for companies. But the Minister of Economic Affairs does not go from words to deeds. I am happy to pick up the glove from Mathias Tegnér that we can sit down in Parliament to make wise decisions. I think we can take that discussion on the autumn side and see how we can form majorities in Parliament and move from words to actions to facilitate. Ultimately, if we make it easier for entrepreneurs, we also make it easier for them to develop their business with products, services, innovation and, ultimately, with securing tax revenues for the important welfare in Sweden. They are heroes and pillars, and I think there is a need for a different focus on this policy as well as a new government.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-614	Madam President, I would like I think, as I said earlier, that it will be problematic when these issues become a political blunder. When Mrs Hjälmered talks about a long bench, it is the time during the coronapandemine that we are talking about. As I say, there are a number of issues that are currently being prepared and that will make a big difference. The sectoral review, the investigation of the Accounting Act, the investigation of micro-enterprises, the environmental review and the review of the supervision of, for example, the county boards will make a big difference for companies. During the last parliamentary term, a number of things happened that also make a difference for companies. It is a question of removing one in two weeks' sick pay liability for the companies, which was extremely requested. It is about the fact that it became cheaper to hire a first person, and it is about shorter payment times for small businesses. In addition, it was about the development of V erksamt.se and Serverat. In short, then, I hope that there will be less political rhetoric and less political slogans on these issues and that we can work in concert for important issues that actually make a difference for Sweden's entrepreneurs. I have pointed out a number of areas where it is needed. There are also a number of areas that I think we can develop. What is needed, as I said, was not more rhetoric, but what is needed are the concrete measures that I have mentioned and certainly a number of other concrete measures that the parties here in the Swedish Parliament can come up with. Finally, I think we can find ourselves in a situation where we actually push back the regulatory burden if we find new and smart solutions to deal with, for example, the implementation of EU rules.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-618	Madam President, I would like In order to give the business community the conditions it deserves, we need to carry out active regulatory simplification work. It is a form of support measure that the government has unfortunately left entirely behind. Despite the government's substandard work in this area, however, the Riksdag has continued its persistent work. As letter 75 showed when it was dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs, there are a number of announcements on the government table that have been refused to deal with, to remedy and to complete. The announcements that already exist and that the government has not been able to complete are that more government agencies should be tasked with facilitating entrepreneurship in Sweden, that the government should come up with additional measures to simplify entrepreneurship and increase digital interaction between public authorities, that the government should try to use so-called sunset clauses, which means that a provision lasts only until further notice and then needs to be reviewed at a certain time in order to ensure its impact, and that the government should work to ensure that EU directives are implemented in national law in a way that does not put companies' competitiveness at a disadvantage. The starting point should be that EU directives should be introduced at a minimum level in national legislation and that the impact on businesses, when there is reason to exceed this minimum level, should be clearly identified. Despite these announcements, the government has chosen not to act. Is Mathias Tegnér happy with this? What has the government managed to achieve during this term of office? Is there a single example of a rule that has been simplified or removed?
i-VManpkttiST9iVSDUbNKH5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the questions. I understand that the honourable Member, standing here in the speaker's chair debating, somehow ignores the fact that we have been in a pandemic that has hit the world and Sweden hard. However, when we debate this, we cannot ignore the fact that the pandemic actually exists. As I said earlier, the government and the cooperation parties have presented historically large measures which also involve significant financial contributions. I am thinking of short-term lay-off, reduced social security contributions, conversion aid, strong support for the local government sector, increased unemployment rates and other types of aid. As I mentioned, the government for 2020 has presented aid amounting to EUR 200 billion in costs, EUR 250 billion in guarantees and EUR 230 billion in liquidity support. This is historic support. A further EUR 100 billion was allocated to the 2021 budget. This is support that has been extremely important for the companies we are now discussing. The reason why the Riksdag and the Government have been able to decide on ten different support programmes is that there has been a full focus on dealing with the Corona crisis and that we have also had sound financial finances. In fact, we have the lowest public debt since 1977, which we would not have had if we had followed budgets from the Member's party. I would therefore say that we can and should be extremely proud of the policies that have been pursued. It is not perfect in all respects, but basically this policy is about important support coming to the companies most affected by the Corona crisis. Therefore, as we stand here today discussing regulatory simplifications, we cannot ignore the fact that we have been in a situation where all the focus had to be on the coronapndemin.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-627	Madam President, I would like It must be considered strange to be extremely proud of absolutely nothing. In fact, what we are debating are regulatory simplifications, and neither Mathias Tegnér nor Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan has been able to point out a single simplification that has been carried out during this parliamentary term. Nevertheless, Mathias Tegnér describes himself as extremely proud. It would not have been for me to be a member of a government party that has failed miserably in everything that has to do with simplification of the rules. Well, it's up to Mathias Tegnér himself to decide what he and the government are proud of. After all, we have supported the measures that Mathias Tegnér has highlighted, the crisis aid that has actually been put in place. We've been pushing them in parliament. They're positive. The problem is that the government has failed to understand that regulatory simplification is also a form of crisis support. It's great that you've got ten crisis support in place, but it can't excuse that you haven't been working on regulatory simplification during the same time period. It cannot excuse the fact that a single simplification measure has not been successful. Suggestions for regulatory simplifications already existed before we entered the pandemic and have appeared during the pandemic. We even have examples of announcements that have lasted for over five years, unanimous ones such as Mathias Tegnér and other Social Democratic Members of Parliament have also voted in favour. One such issue is the state of dance. I think it was 2016, Madam President, that it was announced by a unanimous parliament. The question then remains whether the government does not even evaluate what the Social Democratic MPs think and what they vote for in the Riksdag. We in the opposition have learned that we do not value what Parliament thinks when there is a majority. But even when there is unanimity, and even the Social Democrats in Parliament feel something, the government does not care. How does Mathias Tegnér view it? It must be hard not even getting a voice from your own government.
i-CGqMzz2ADsCvZv4trAV4N6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for the question. No, it's not hard. The reality is that we agree that the dance states should be removed. But we differ, and I thought that was very clear in an interpellation debate that the honourable Member had here in the Swedish Parliament at the beginning of the coronapandemine, in that I and the Social Democrats do not think that the focus on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry should be to remove the law on dance conditions in the midst of a burning pandemic. That's a bad priority. Mr Andersson is standing here pretending that it is possible to do several things at the same time. It is in some respects but not when we talk about historically large corona subsidies. In addition, the honourable Member asked me what I think about sunset clauses. I think they could be considered. But I attended a seminar organised by the Business Council a couple of years ago. The seminar was attended by a State Secretary from the United States, who was considered to be the most successful in the field of regulatory simplification. He felt that sunset clauses – one rule in, one rule out – were the expression of populism, that they were unable to make proper sectoral reviews and value the cost of rules. I say again that we should consider which rules are to be removed, but we will do so in a smart way. As I said, the government is doing a number of important things. There is a sectoral review of the food sector, an examination of the Accounting Act, the Micro-enterprises Act and the Environmental Review, and a review of the supervision. During the last parliamentary term, a number of things were done. They shortened payment times, worked with V erksamt.se and the program Serverat, they looked over the possibility of a way into digitalization, it became cheaper to hire a first person and sick pay responsibility went from two weeks to one week. A Social Democratic government is doing a lot in this area.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-640	Madam President, I would like It is one of the unusuals that those of us who are part of the January parties are asking each other for a reply. I share the image that has emerged earlier from the honourable Member that the great support that has been put in place during the pandemic has been positive. There has been a broad work in Parliament, often pushed by liberals, but it has also been a work with the government, and it has been positive for many. The support has been necessary for Swedish industry to be able to overwinter. Madam President, I would like I reacted to a few things that the honourable Member said in his introductory speech. He started by saying that after Corona we will build the community. We're going to build the community after the Corona. The truth is that society builds itself all the time. Outside the Chamber there are enterprising people, individuals and associations that build society. That is not something that we politicians in this House are doing. We don't build society, but society builds itself if we just let society get a little more freedom, if we let society's smallest building blocks, enterprising people, entrepreneurs and other individuals get a little more freedom. The Member then continued to talk about the Government's simplification journey. He said that under it there had been more concrete proposals for simplification. When you say more concrete proposals, it sounds linguistically like the honourable Member wants to insinuate that you already had a lot of proposals before, and then you got more. What proposals for regulatory simplification are already in the desk drawers of the Social Democrats who were there even before the pandemic?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-645	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Forssell for the questions. The first question is more philosophical, that is, how a society is built. I myself usually consider myself to be some kind of liberal social democrat. Basically, I am a social democrat because I think that all people should have the opportunity to realize the longings of their best moods. It was also something that the first Socialist party leader, Hjalmar Branting, said. Basically, society is needed to give all people the opportunity to realize themselves. Both companies and associations are created and operate in a free society. However, I do not believe that the only way to build a society is to just remove rules and remove taxes and believe that everything happens automatically. I may be a socialist, but I am primarily an economist. If this is something that economic research shows, it's that in large sectors it doesn't work at all so that you just remove rules – and that's how everything works perfectly. It is something of a tale that persists, which economics researchers basically know but which does not always seem to have entered the Swedish parliament. Let us talk about the proposals that were in the desk drawer or that were worked on during the last term of office. I've mentioned them before in different lines. For example, they worked with shorter payment periods for companies, i.e. to improve the liquidity of Sweden's smaller entrepreneurs. It worked to develop V erksamt.se and the Serverat programme, and it worked on a way in, just as the honourable Member himself mentioned. M an made it cheaper to hire a first person, and the responsibility for sick pay went from two weeks to one week.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-650	Madam President, I would like It is probably the case that even if there had not been Social Democrats, there would have been a society. Society is not really the state. What Mrs Tegnér says is that a society is needed to help. Of course there is a need for a society. There is no party that thinks that people should be alone, sit by themselves in each of their places in the woods and never meet each other and never form a society. It is not the ideology of any party in this House. On the contrary, I believe that a very strong society is needed. I believe that society becomes stronger when individuals are free. The smallest building block of society is not the Social Democrats or the Social Democratic Government. The smallest building block in society is the enterprising people. It is individuals who together and voluntarily join forces in associations, in entrepreneurship and other forms of collaboration. It's society. I really believe that from politics we have to ask ourselves the right to prevent people from building society as they want. Yes, absolutely – if we let society go free, it is more difficult to get it as we have thought out in the Swedish parliament, but it will be a society and there will be a lot of prosperity. By what right do we stand in the way of people with a lot of rules and so on? Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to ask another question. During the pandemic, it has not only been the case that the Swedish parliament and the Swedish government have had to introduce support to support companies, but it has also been the case that many municipalities and local politicians around the country have introduced a variety of regulatory simplifications locally. For example, it can be about a license to serve or other things for the restaurant industry. Will the Social Democrats work to ensure that these simplifications remain even after the pandemic?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-654	Madam President, I would like Let us begin with the first question of how to build a strong society. I think we can see that I and Mr Forssell actually have a slightly different view of society. Maybe it's not that strange either. We agree so far that I also believe that society becomes stronger when people are free. Where we differ, however, is that I do not think it is a question of preventing people with, for example, taxes in a society. Taxes and a welfare system give all people the opportunity to choose their own path in life. If we look at different types of societies in our world, we can see that social mobility, i.e. the ability to choose a different path from their parents, is at its highest where there are strong welfare communities. It is at its highest where there are actually taxes and a policy that has the ambition to give all people the opportunity to choose their own path in life. There we differ, Mr Forssell. With regard to the issue of regulatory simplification and the type of rules that we need to maintain after the pandemic, I think it is a good starting point to review the changes that have been made and to consider which ones may remain. It is an excellent idea to increase the speed of the regulatory simplification. I am convinced that there is something we need to do. At the same time, we will have to review all the rules, all the support schemes, which have been introduced. Slowly but surely, they also need to be removed in a smart and efficient way, which does not put away the benefits of the economy, but at the same time ensures that growth increases. It is an excellent idea that Mr Forssell proposes to actually review what regulatory simplifications may remain after the pandemic.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-659	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. How do you measure and assess the impact of various industrial policies? How do you follow them up, and how do you evaluate them? The Swedish National Audit Office has submitted a report on this, which we are debating today. It is about impact assessments of industrial policy. The Swedish National Audit Office's report concludes that only 2 out of 37 audited evaluations reach the level required for the evaluation to be considered reliable. They are therefore not of sufficient quality to draw conclusions and see causality, which is anything but good. Measuring the impact of political proposals is important and necessary for us to be able to land right in what we want to achieve politically. It is of course not nice reading if the outcome does not fall on your lip, and it is not nice to get a receipt that the situation is not as you wanted. But it is important, and if measures and choices are to go in the right direction, you have to be prepared to change course and screw in proposals and measures. Not receiving this receipt is not the way to go. It is therefore good that the Government agrees with several of the assessments of the measures proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office. But I would also like to tell you what we in the Moderates have said about the government's response because we feel that there is a lack of clarity. Looking back, you can see that the Swedish National Audit Office has already made criticisms to the government about shortcomings in evaluations of, for example, company support, as we have also pointed out. The government says it intends to come back with measures. That is good, but it is not reflected in the answer with a clearly formulated plan. We cannot read what we intend to do. It's missing, and we want to see it. That is why we are also clear in our response that we want to see concrete proposals for measures that are reported back to Parliament. We also want the Government to report to the Riksdag how it intends to address identified shortcomings in the reliability of impact assessments of industrial policy. The Swedish National Audit Office is clear that it is important for the Swedish Agency for Growth and Vinnova to be tasked with collaborating with Growth Analysis on evaluations. We share this view, but we do not want to stop at it and wish to see that Growth Analysis handles all evaluations. There is a need for both evaluations and analyses to be carried out by another authority, which can also gather knowledge and sharpen its mission. The Government replies in its letter that it intends to deal with the recommendations addressed by the Swedish National Audit Office to the authorities within the framework of the ordinary public authority dialogues. The dialogues are oral talks conducted between ministries and authorities. That is a good thing, but we believe that the government should also act to formally ensure delivery of the measures. This is done with wording in letters of regulation, and we would like to see this put in place. As far as business aid is concerned, the system for assigning these has met with criticism in public scrutiny and research. Among other things, the research institute Ratio has pointed out that the exchange of allocated funds is low and unclear. The system of funds is spread and difficult to see, and then it will also be difficult to see the effects. More follow-up of these support is needed to ensure quality. We believe that the government needs to put in place a transparent system in which the subsidies are refined so that they can be monitored and monitored. The support needs to be accurate and show social benefits. The objectives of the programmes need to be clearly defined, defined and monitored. Then you see the red thread in how decisions are implemented and how it becomes. It is also important to compare aid with other measures that could be chosen instead of those that you have planned to take, because then you will get a comparison of which choices are best distributed according to the purpose. For example, the choice between reducing ownership taxes and reducing corporate tax. Madam President, I would like Almi, Tillväxtverket and the Swedish Board of Agriculture provide all business support whose social benefits need to be evaluated and monitored. We know from the past that support can take time and that there is bureaucracy built in that means that, for example, the Swedish Board of Agriculture does not go along with the municipalities' one-year work cycle to allocate funds. It affects the benefit of society, and just figure out what the effect will be. It is important to review business support widely. It is about loan guarantees and support for research and development and that regulations and funds via the EU should start in activities that it estimates will be able to carry themselves forward. The same applies to programming documents, which need to be easy to use, based on goals and be measurable. Anything to get the best exchange possible. A simple example from the tourism industry, which has suffered so much during the pandemic, points to the importance of comparing things over time and comparing the right things so that the effect of what you want to achieve will be as good as possible. When you observe how shopping tourism is described in 2019 and 2018, you see that it is done with different dimensions. 2019 includes VAT, but 2018 is not included. Food is included in the 2019 measurement but not 2018. These are just a few measuring points, a few small pieces in a large business puzzle that are presented with different metrics in different reports to be used as a basis of policy. Madam President, I would like In order for us to get out and achieve the right values and effects, it is incredibly important that the input data and analyses are correct and that comparable measurements are made over time. It is, of course, this basis that the policy draws conclusions from and which forms the basis for how funds are used to produce the effects that are intended to be achieved on the basis of objectives and what we want to achieve. On 27 May this year, eight economic researchers wrote in Dagens Nyheter Debate about the fact that authorities working in the field of business and innovation policy are largely funding their own evaluations. In the article, we can also read that these studies are more positive when ordered directly by the authorities than when carried out by independent operators. The issue of orders, i.e. public procurement, is addressed. It points out that it is important that these should aim for the best possible function. It is therefore important to emphasise that it is a good thing that Growth Analysis is and becomes the authority responsible for evaluation. It becomes the guarantor that clients and distributors of funds do not themselves review their business but that it is placed outside their own business. It benefits both the executioner and the ordering authority to separate the assignment. Trust increases with independence. That's it, and it's important. In the report drawn up by the Swedish National Audit Office, it is clear, as I mentioned earlier, that Growth Analysis has the best results in terms of quality. It is important to sharpen the Authority in order to obtain the best evaluation data for the best possible effect.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-688	Madam President, I would like We are today debating the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the impact assessments of industrial policy. Important to include in this context is that we are debating a review report that has looked at the impact assessments of some of the industrial policy support that were in place before the pandemic – in other words, not impact assessments of the now established crisis support. Having said that, no party in the Swedish parliament has dared to point out the obvious shortcomings in public support to the business community to the same extent as the Swedish Democrats. The starting point for enterprise policy must be that entrepreneurship and innovation form the basis for job growth and well-being. In addition to this recent report from the Swedish National Audit Office, reports from both Growth Analysis as well as individual academics and interest organisations have pointed out that the impact of various public economic policy support is difficult to measure and evaluate. These include Vinnova's innovation support, state venture capital and EU programmes. For example, a letter was debated in January in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on regional Structural Fund partnerships. A review report from the Swedish National Audit Office expressed strong criticism of the project. This was a joint project with the EU that had spent almost SEK 25 billion on companies and research in Sweden in six years. Criticism related to conflict of interest and lack of transparency, which weakened legal certainty but also lacked the conditions for effective implementation. It can also be mentioned that the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analyses, Growth Analysis, repeatedly criticized various industrial policy support and stated, among other things, that two of the Innovation Agency Vinnova's support programmes: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I mention this in order to put the letter that we are debating today in its context. The questions we as politicians need to ask ourselves are: Is it possible to measure the impact of public support to business? And if it can be measured, does the aid have any effect? These issues could be referred to as 100 billion issues, since the costs of various industrial aid, in terms of both expenditure and revenue for the state, amount to those amounts. However, the exact sum does not know because there are so many different subsidies and subsidies that even the parliamentary investigation service has not been able to give me answers in this regard. Judging from the review report we are discussing today, the answer to the first question is that it is very difficult to actually evaluate the impact of nutrition policy. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed 37 evaluations of the impact of industrial policy between 2015 and 2018. Of these, only two met the requirements that a reliable impact assessment should meet. The answer to the second 100-billion question is given by other investigations and reports, of which I touched on a few earlier. Once the impact of industrial aid can be assessed, there seems to be no one, Madam President. This is, of course, directly unreasonable and a betrayal of the Swedish taxpayer. The fact that the government does not do more to get to the bottom of this and take measures to ensure that the impact of industrial policy can be measured and that it is positive is an accident. If this cannot be guaranteed, we should apply a precautionary principle and simply stop paying out ineffective aid and instead invest these funds in other nutritional measures, such as tax incentives for companies. Madam President, I would like Our entry point, as stated in reservation 3, is that in certain situations state aid to companies may have a role to play, but it is important that governments and authorities do their utmost to evaluate aid and ensure that taxpayers' money is of maximum use. One way of doing this is, for example, to have independent impact assessments carried out, as the Riksdag has in an announcement earlier called on the government to do. We note that the Government has not followed this and therefore believe that the Riksdag should urge the Government to follow up and ensure that independent impact assessments of state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship can be carried out and that this becomes the norm. We also stress that taxpayers' money should not be wasted and spent on aid without proven effect. This is an important principle – respect for those who have brought in the tax resources. They should be able to feel that the state uses those funds with care and that they receive currency for the tax they have paid. Otherwise, confidence in the entire Swedish model risks falling and disappears completely in due course. We therefore propose that the Government return to Parliament with proposals for a so-called sunset clause or a systematised method of phasing out aid without proven effect. In this way, we can guarantee that the state will stop fattening premium entrepreneurs, stop trespassing on the market without cause or effect and stop wasting tax money. We have also previously agreed that the government should make it clear in the regulatory letters that the Swedish Agency for Growth and Vinnova will use and/or collaborate with Growth Analysis – this to improve the evaluation of the support. We simply cannot have a system in which 2 out of 37 evaluations of the impact of industrial policy actually meet the requirements that a reliable impact assessment should meet. We also believe that the government should also clarify other recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office to the authorities in the relevant regulatory letters to ensure that they are taken care of. It is about the need for Growth Analysis to ensure that the quality of government impact assessments is further increased and that authorities should take into account that other types of evaluations and follow-up should not claim to express an opinion on impacts and that their objectives and limitations should be clearly communicated. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I would like to endorse our reservation 3 on certain other issues relating to state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-707	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in the report. In the letter, the Government presents its views on the observations and recommendations presented by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report on the impact assessments of industrial policy. Anyone who has had reason to meet auditors and their letters knows that you should read these carefully. This applies whether it is a non-profit association, a company or a political organisation. You usually say that what you measure, you try to improve, and what you do not measure will decay over time. Against this background, it is therefore wise to read with interest what the Swedish National Audit Office says and carefully weigh their recommendations on changing routines. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out a systematic analysis of how government agencies evaluate the effects of industrial policy and how the impact assessments are used. Their report contains a number of recommendations, and there is reason to highlight one of them in particular. The Swedish National Audit Office sends a clear signal that it is important that the Swedish Agency for Growth and Vinnova are tasked with collaborating with Growth Analysis for impact assessments of these efforts. On a more comprehensive level, the Swedish National Audit Office concludes that there are significant shortcomings in the impact assessments. Only 2 out of 37 reviewed evaluations meet the requirements that a reliable impact assessment should meet. I think there is reason to conclude: this is not good enough. In addition, the review shows that the government uses the impact assessments only to a limited extent to re-report the effects of the policies pursued. Madam President, I would like The Government claims to have good ambitions to listen to the Swedish National Audit Office's proposals, but one cannot see that this declared ambition is accompanied by a clearly formulated plan. I therefore believe that concrete proposals need to be made on how these shortcomings can be addressed. Over the past year, the pandemic has put great strain on our society, and these are not over yet. We in this House have taken about 20 amendments on the budget. This is quite unique to our country, and we all agree that it is welcome to become a bit more traditional budgetary processes in the coming years. The Christian Democrats are strongly in favour of the state taking overall responsibility for helping the business community to ride out all the different phases of the current crisis. But one thing that cannot be stressed enough is that every crown that we invest in various forms of support, such as Almis's activities, must be subject to high demands for efficiency. It is important that every crown ends up where it should and has the best possible effect. It is out of concern for our common resources and out of concern for the viability of the business community that we want to try to make an effort to achieve a little more. We are not satisfied with the government's ambition on this point. That's also why we want to drill a little deeper.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-717	Madam President, I would like We are debating one of the most important elements here in order to create a strong society, namely enterprise policy. The fact that we have living businesses is a basis for a strong society, and that we can measure that the resources and support we pay out have the right effect. After all, we are in a very difficult time. Much of the aid that has expired in the last year has been about saving businesses, business and jobs. However, both during the pandemic and during normal times, adequate impact assessments are required in the area of nutrition policy. When it comes to various forms of support to the business community for sustainable economic growth, it is important that they are designed responsibly and efficiently. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of Tillväxtanalys, Tillväxtverket, Vinnova, SCB and Almi is a tool that provides us with important knowledge to be able to switch up, adjust and target the necessary efforts and strengthen Swedish business power Madam President, I would like Now the n is over 6 million has received the first vaccine dose we begin to see the end of the pandemic, the light in the tunnel. Several industries are now starting to re-plan and switch up. They see that you can take new steps in a new time. The situation in the future is somewhat uncertain, but we, as politicians, must always be very responsive and constantly flexible and prepared to go in with measures to reduce the impact of what we have just gone through. Madam President, I would like I welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review and agree with several of the audit's assessments. The overall question in the review has been whether the evaluations on the impact of industrial policy are of sufficient quality to give an opinion on the effects and whether the results of the evaluations are used effectively. The horizontal question has then been divided into two sub-questions: In order to answer the questions, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed evaluations of industrial policy that state their views on effects and have been published during the period 2015– 2018. Madam President, I would like A good overview of how funds are used, the impact of public intervention and the ability to assess where government interventions are deemed to be most useful is central to good management of state funds. In addition, according to the Government's comments, well-made knowledge is necessary in the development of new industrial policy initiatives, and in this, among other things, impact assessment is an important part. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on impact assessments of industrial policy raises problems regarding the authorities' impact evaluation of industrial policy and that different authorities' evaluations have different qualities. So they vary. I therefore welcome the government's agreement with the overall description of the problems of the Swedish National Audit Office and the overall observations and evaluation in the field of enterprise policy. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Government states that both the Government Office and the other authorities are continuously working to develop methods and analyses to better report the achieved goals, so that the effect is expected. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight the fact that it is not apparent from the Swedish National Audit Office's review whether the Authority has taken into account the development work carried out from 2017, which has been based on the recommendation made by the Swedish National Audit Office in the review of state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship from 2016. It is important that the recommendations in this current review are taken into account in relation to the work under way within the Government Office following the previous recommendations. I would also like to highlight earlier decisions we have taken in this House on this year's budget proposal. There, Growth Analysis has been awarded SEK 2 million to carry out more impact assessments and to develop a comprehensive database to support the evaluation of public interventions in industrial policy. For 2022, an additional SEK 3 million and for 2023 an additional SEK 4 million will be added. It should also be said – there is perhaps something outside this case – that there is a specific mention of a mission for Growth Analysis to map business promotion efforts in order to thus create a better overview of, among other things, 35 total support and provide the conditions for appropriate evaluations. It will be presented on 15 September. It is also an important part. Madam President, I would like Sweden has long been a competitive country, thanks, among other things, to the support given and the active industrial policy pursued. Around the world, Swedish goods and services are required. It is important for more jobs and a stronger welfare. Sweden and Swedish companies stand well in global competition. Swedish exports take world market shares, and growth is estimated to be high. Therefore, when we take joint steps to ensure an effective and broad economic policy, with support for small and self-employed people, with the facilitation of rules and with a policy that takes into account the necessary transition of our important and many industries to a greener world, it is important that we ensure that our decisions and support are fully effective and as far as possible also measurable. Thus, I welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's report as part of ensuring an effective business policy and the government's continued good management and governance of relevant authorities to ensure sustainable growth, the creation of new jobs and a responsible business policy.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-731	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. State aid to enterprises amounts to many billions a year. Actually, it is. In order to know if the bets give fruit, evaluations are needed where it is visible what effect they have. It is also something that the National Audit Office addresses in the report that we are debating today. Of course, the grants are evaluated, but the Swedish National Audit Office points out that in some cases they do not meet the standards. The aim needs to be clear and clear before companies can apply for support, and authorities should cooperate more closely with regard to impact assessments. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that, among other things, Vinnova and the Swedish Agency for Growth should take the help of the Swedish Agency for Growth Analysis to a greater extent. Madam President, I would like Various evaluations already show that some aid has positive effects, not least for smaller companies. In other cases, however, the effects are not present. Since it is about tax money, it is important that the government goes to the bottom of why it looks like it does. It is therefore positive that Growth Analysis has been tasked with identifying all business promotion efforts and carrying out more impact assessments of business policy support. It has also received money to develop a comprehensive database to support the evaluation of public actions in the field of enterprise policy. One might wonder why some aid does not have a major effect. The simple answer is that they simply don't work, and that can be the case sometimes. But not always, and there are examples where they work. I'll get back to that. Therefore, it is good that Growth Analysis also looks at whether there is, for example, too little money to apply for or whether the support is not properly designed. This may in turn mean that the aid does not reach those companies with the greatest potential. Madam President, I would like Although there is more private venture capital and business angels today than it did just a few decades ago, the Center Party believes that in some cases state aid is needed – partly because private capital predominates mainly in and around the three major cities, partly because it is important to support innovation and entrepreneurship in the early stages where it may be about long lead times, advanced technology solutions or untested green technologies, i.e. what has potential but which for the reasons I mentioned find it difficult to attract private capital. However, the Swedish National Audit Office's review of state aid to companies clearly shows that more and better evaluations are needed and that the objectives of the aid must be more concrete and clear from the outset. Not least, both taxpayers and elected representatives need to know more about which actions work, which ones need to be refined and what does not have an effect. Madam President, I would like A critical and careful approach to state aid should be taken. However, I would like to point out, inter alia on the basis of my own experience, that I have seen many examples of companies that have emerged as a result of state aid, for example via so-called development cheques. Solutions for tomorrow is a company that manufactures mobile X-ray equipment. They started in 2011 in the village Väckelsång outside Växjö. Through witty and active work with the business incubator at Linnaeus University and with the help of a small development check, one is today a profitable company. In 2018, the turnover was SEK 24 million and in 2020 SEK 97 million. Mobile X-ray equipment from a small village can now save lives during the pandemic thanks to a development check. I am pleased with such developments. Another company is Greenpipe, also in Kronoberg County. They started in 2001 and manufacture cable protection pipes made of environmentally friendly recycled plastic for e.g. electric and fibre cables. They too initially received a development check and today have a turnover of over 20 million. My point is that the right use, the right design and the right evaluation make some of the state subsidies useful. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs because this is my last debate before the summer. I would also like to thank the Bureau and the committee secretariat for their excellent work this year. You're priceless.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-744	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for what may be my last debate on this Parliamentary meeting. As has been said earlier, this debate on the impact assessments of industrial policy is not about the Corona subsidies. It has sometimes sounded like that, but this debate is, of course, about ordinary economic policy support. Madam President, I would like As a liberal, I am fundamentally very sceptical about the state redistributing money to various companies and enterprising people. We must, of course, have basic welfare with school and health care, and a tax system is needed. But it is healthy to have a strong scepticism when the state wants to play the business and venture capitalist and in other ways move far beyond what is the core of welfare. However, if the state is to do so, the state must have good evaluations and properly on its feet. If the State does not, it is doubtful whether it is right to engage in such activities at all. As has been said, the best economic policy is regulatory simplification, tax reductions and other measures that remove obstacles for enterprising people. Madam President, I would like As mentioned earlier, a number of economists and researchers recently presented research results on DN Debate that takes place where the impact assessment we are now debating ends. They note that the evaluations commissioned by authorities such as Vinnova and the Swedish Agency for Growth are much more positive than evaluations by independent actors and preferably researchers. I am not so much in favour of anecdotal evidence, but since there have been some of these in this debate, for example on how different companies have had a good time after having a small sum of money, I shall venture to tell you a small anecdote. I have a friend. I'm not gonna tell you his name or what company he's working on, because maybe he won't have a job tomorrow. He conducts impact assessments of various industrial policies for both municipalities and different authorities. He has told us that you get more assignments if you write positively about the various projects and redistributions that politicians and authorities have ordered. This is also supported by the research results presented at DN Debate. The evaluations not carried out by independent operators but by or on behalf of the authorities themselves are not reliable. They present too good results in terms of reality. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is a major problem when the subsidy-industrial complex, as one might call all these actors, pats each other on the shoulder and tells each other how good this is. In fact, it is perhaps most they themselves who make money from this part of nutrition policy. Madam President, I would like As politicians, we should ask ourselves the question of the right to take various measures, regulations and redistributions of money. In the debate, it has sounded like it is about how we should distribute state money effectively, but it is quite the wrong perspective. The debate must be about whether there is sufficient evidence that we as politicians should have the right to take money from an enterprising person who, with effort, knowledge, effort and risk-taking, has created prosperity and risked it elsewhere. It is not enough for impact assessments to show that the results are positive, but that the results are extremely positive and that this is entirely within the fundamental task of the state. If it doesn't, it's not actually our money from the beginning. Madam President, I would like There's someone out there who's been working for the money in the first place. If you are to justify taking money from that person to redistribute to someone else, you must have very good reasons for that. There are such reasons – good education, health care for all and so on – but a questionable nutrition policy where post-evaluation evaluation generates unclear results may not be. Madam President, I would like You can have anecdotes that show something different, but there are even research results that show that companies that receive support – i.e. on average, aggregated – are less efficient and productive but charge higher wages than companies that do not receive support. It's extremely provocative. It is a subsidy industrial complex where you pat yourself on the shoulder far too often. Madam President, I would like Basically, it will be a discussion where we talk about the impact assessment of nutrition policy and of various support. It's about what you in the economy usually call what you see and what you don't see. We have previously heard anecdotes about some company that received support and then it went well for that company and about some other company that also received support and so it went well for that company and so on. It is just that this is not the way to evaluate industrial policy. That's completely unreasonable. It is clear that if there are three companies that have not received support from the beginning and then you give someone some money it can of course generate a result, but it is not interesting in itself. What is interesting is what the economy looks like at an aggregate level. It is about us taking some money from many, and then we concentrate it and give it to a few in the form of support. If this is to be interesting, we must look at what we do not see in anecdotes. We need to look at what is happening aggregatedly, what is happening on the total and what happens when every small crown goes from an enterprising person or a business activity that has been effective and is instead invested in something risky, in something that is not yet effective. What happens is that we move money from things that work to things that may not work. At an aggregate level, this results in a very bad outcome. What is also happening is that we are destroying the selection process of the free market. The free market is a selection process in which many different actors, many more than we have the capacity to provide different support, test themselves, test new ideas and new business practices, and the person for whom it works best, the person who delivers the greatest value to people, to the welfare and to prosperity. The others won't make it, and then you'll have to go ahead and try some other idea. What this kind of policy does is to take money from companies that work and then risk giving it to one of the companies that should have been knocked out in the natural selection process of the market. We risk losing out on an even better company than what we ultimately evaluate. Madam President, I would like I note that we will have to come back to this with business support and evaluations of them, because it is clear that the policy that we now have does not measure up to date if we want growth in Sweden too tomorrow.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-763	Madam President, I would like I wasn't gonna take a line. It's nine o'clock in the evening, and I think we'd like to see everyone left in the hall slip away soon. But I could not help it, because there is so much contradiction in what Mr Forssell is presenting. He concludes by saying that we need to come back to the issue of the impact assessment of public support to business and that we need to come back with questions about what should be available when it comes to different types of support measures in the field of enterprise policy. Why should we do that, Madam President? We have spent the last hour debating this particular issue. The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats all had three reservations in the report. Why should we return to the question? There will be reason to do so, but the Liberals had the opportunity to act in the report. There is no reservation from the Liberals. Nor is there any committee motion from the Liberals that touches on this. In addition, the Liberals have chosen over the years not to cut back on public support to the business community, even though the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and also the Moderates, have criticized and rejected, among other things, the large billion-dollar grant that, for example, Vinnova receives and is within the expenditure area for which Joar Forssell himself is responsible. It is a little strange, Madam President, that you want to come back to an issue that you have devoted nine minutes to and that you have exceeded your speaking time in order to emphasise how important it is instead of acting when the matter is actually dealt with at Parliament's table. The question to Joar Forssell from my side is: Why have the Liberals not acted? From what Joar Forssell said in his speech, I see that we have the same criticism in this area. It may be that Joar Forssell goes with a little longer than he should, gets a little into the rhetoric and says things he can't live up to. There is nothing in Liberal policy that is consistent with what Joar Forssell said in his speech.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-768	Madam President, I would like It's funny with Swedish democrats. They believe that the history of the Riksdag began when the Swedish Democrats entered this Chamber for the first time. That's not really the case. Madam President, I would like On the contrary, the Liberals have pursued exactly the policy that I have set out here today. I haven't drifted away in my rhetoric. I am quite provoked – the honourable Member succeeds in saying this. What I have put forward is the policy of the Liberals. It can be read in Liberals' movements and in Liberals' previous budgets. It can also, if you go back to the rolls, read in what the Liberals have been running in, for example, negotiations with the alliance parties. It was a while ago, but this is not a new policy for the Liberals. Madam President, I would like I am quite happy that Tobias Andersson chose to take a line on me now, because in the honourable Member's own speech earlier it might sound like the Swedish Democrats had come up with this policy. It's not like that. It is politics that has existed for a long time in the party manifesto of all alliance parties and that the Swedish Democrats have very skilfully picked up. I am pleased, but it is not something that is unique to Tobias Andersson or anyone else. I also note that the Liberals – I think that Tobias Andersson is also taking note of this – are currently working on the budget with three other parties. We have been able to listen here today to the other three parties, which have had quite a lot to do with these issues in the speaker's chair. This does not apply to the Green Party, but it can be said that they agree with the other two. We want an effective industrial policy based on regulatory simplifications and tax reductions, not on beaver safari support and other arguments if I am to express myself a little drastically. But it's hard when you're in the minority. I can tell Tobias that even when we had an alliance government, the Liberals were often the ones who pushed for this.
i-1905f3d8671bce70-775	Madam President, I would like I can only say that I have taken note of the committee and expenditure movements that the Liberals have had in this area ever since I was elected as a member of the Swedish Parliament the same year as Joar Forssell, i.e. 2018. In the first few years before Joar Forssell came to the Committee on Economic Affairs, what Joar Forssell is now expressing has not been found, nor has it since Joar Forssell came to the Committee on Economic Affairs, for that matter. We can take Vinnova as an example. Joar Forssell highlighted in his previous speech and strongly criticized the type of government venture capital where one singles money between which companies will receive money and hopes that one will understand better than the market and that gender certified forestry and other things will be able to create innovation in Sweden. There, the Liberals have not cut the grant. If I am not mistaken, more than 31⁄2 billion are paid out in support each year. There, the Liberals have cut nothing. It sounds like that on Joar Forssell, both in his speech and in this change of line, but that has not happened. In the proposal that was on the table today, among other things, we have a reservation on sunset clauses. If you have an aid measure that has not proven its effectiveness, it shall be automatically deleted. One might think that Joar Forssell's rhetoric suggests that he also thinks it is a good proposal. It's not something we copied from the alliance parties. In that case it is something that the alliance parties themselves have not put forward in the Swedish parliament, although they may have thought so in some context, according to Joar Forssell. We can take the two concrete examples. Why have the Liberals not acted against Vinnova, despite Joar Forssell's rhetoric? Why did Joar Forssell and the Liberals not support our proposal on sunset clauses in today's debate?
i-1905f3d8671bce70-779	Madam President, I would like It's like we're reading different documents. I can pass on our business policy exercise and other things to the honourable Member later. There is the rhetoric that I have brought to the floor today. You can also look at the Liberal Party programme for many years or other old papers to prove what I am saying here. Our business policy is based on regulatory simplification, tax reductions and other things to remove barriers for businesses. It's not based on a lot of different support. On the contrary, for many years liberals have been speaking in exactly the direction in which I am speaking here. It is true, of course, that when we are involved in budgetary cooperation with other parties, we cannot support just anything in any context. But if you want to know what a party thinks, Tobias Andersson knows by now that you can't just look at how a party votes in the Swedish parliament on each issue. One must also look at the positions that the party puts forward, what the party is pushing in various negotiations and so on. There's nothing strange about that. Now the Swedish Democrats have not been allowed to negotiate a budget at any time. I therefore understand that Tobias Andersson is not aware of this. It's perfectly natural. This was certainly the case for the Green Party, for example, in the past. But that's how politics works. Basically, I am pleased that the Swedish Democrats and Tobias Andersson have joined the bourgeois, or really liberal, industrial policy that has been driven by the liberal movement in Sweden for many years, that we should have deregulations, regulatory simplifications, lower taxes and not subsidies, because it does not work.
