i-0cf68d602531886b-7	Madam President, honourable Members, speakers and ombudsmen of Parliament, as I know, follow this debate and are usually with us in this House! The official report of the Ombudsmen, which is a comprehensive product consisting of the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report on their work, audits and assessments of a large number of complaints, is currently on the table. It is of great benefit to Sweden that we have this system with Parliamentary ombudsmen, JO, who review and supervise the public activities. It benefits our country and our citizens. The report is a comprehensive and shocking reading. It testifies to shortcomings in the functioning of the public sector, which are causing great suffering to individual citizens. It gives many examples where the public – municipalities, regions and authorities – have failed in their tasks. That is precisely why it is so important that this is given both attention and reflection. What can we learn, and how can we, the public, do things better? Madam President, I would like The pandemic with which we have been living since the beginning of last year has affected our society and our daily lives in a way that is unprecedented in modern times. Some groups have run the risk of being particularly affected by both the infection and the extraordinary measures taken by the authorities. The JO's mission to promote legal certainty and to ensure that citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms are not violated has become even more important in these circumstances. As the JO writes, people in custody are among those groups that are particularly at risk of suffering the effects of the pandemic. They have little opportunity to influence their own life situation, are very dependent on the management of each institution and often live closely with limited opportunities for physical distance. This applies, for example, to prisoners in detention centres and prisons, in detention centres of the Finnish Immigration Service or in different homes for compulsory care in social services. In connection with the official report, the JO has presented a special report on the situation of detainees under the coronapndemin. It is very urgent, and I assume that the relevant authorities and institutions will study it carefully. Madam President, I would like I would particularly like to highlight the child perspective in this House. We adults are responsible for hearing the voices of the children. Today's News reported last autumn on how children of inmates are prevented from seeing their parents. One of them was 10-year-old Lydia from Stockholm, who had not been allowed to see her father in several months. She said, "I miss him and think about him every day." On his birthday, a priest gave him a muffin. That made me happy. She is not the only child affected by not seeing a parent. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen have examined this and the special report contains strong statements. It's important and good. As I said, I assume that the relevant authorities and institutions will study this carefully, not least for the sake of the children. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight in this speech our important freedom of expression and press legislation that we have in this country and our rules on public access and confidentiality. The principle of public access is and remains a cornerstone of our democracy. JO Per Lennerbrant writes in the official report that the JO has repeatedly criticised the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for shortcomings in handling requests for disclosure of public documents. This is an issue that the Constitutional Committee has been wrestling with for several years and for several terms of office – regardless of the political colour of the government, should be added. The impression is that it sits in the walls as an organizational problem that each new foreign minister inherits. Given that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has regularly and for several years failed to deal with requests for access to public documents, JO Lennerbrant's representative, JO Cecilia Renfors, found it urgent to follow up the work done within the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to comply with the provisions of the Freedom of the Press Regulation on the handling of requests for access to public documents. The official report shows that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has submitted a report describing measures taken, in progress and planned to improve the handling of requests for access to public documents. It is welcome and urgent. We will continue to keep an eye on this. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Ombudsmen once again for this year's report and to endorse the KU's proposal for a decision to add the report to the file.
i-0cf68d602531886b-16	Madam President, I would like As usual, the report before us gives rise to somewhat contradictory feelings. On the one hand, it causes discomfort. How can it be, is a reflection that appears, that officials in the state and the municipality continue to violate laws and regulations year after year, which in the worst case may result in direct abuse of citizens? After all, they have been educated, and they have also been able to learn from previous JO reviews. On the other hand, all the reviews included in the official report are very satisfying. We can be proud of the Swedish invention ombudsmen. These, together with their associates, turn over all the stones needed to assist and help individuals. The committee takes a very serious view of the shortcomings that have been pointed out in terms of objectivity and impartiality in administrative tasks. The committee also stresses the importance of ensuring that public authorities and municipalities comply with the principle of public access and that freedom of communication and the prohibition of research are respected. This particular type of failure recurs year after year in the JO's official report. The activities of the JO have also been affected by the pandemic that led to changes in the way the JO works in the spring of 2020. Nevertheless, the mission to safeguard the rule of law continued to be the same and became even more important now that our society was exposed to the pressures of the pandemic. The number of cases increased relatively strongly. In particular, it should be noted that the pandemic has made a significant impact on the number of criminal and health care cases. It is valuable that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have produced a special report on the situation of the detainees in connection with the pandemic. We heard about that just now. It testifies to the hasty or even incorrect nature of certain measures. Among other things, the opportunities of the detainees to have contact with relatives or to have visits from the nearest ones have been made more difficult than has often been necessary. The situation in our penitentiary centres has also sometimes led to inmates sharing cells, with the potential risk of contamination. Five cases examined concerning the Swedish Enforcement Authority show that the processing times of certain cases for almost a year have been unacceptably long. As in some other cases of different authorities over the years, this has been due to difficulties in introducing a new IT system. The official report shows that the JO has prosecuted two judges at the same district court for misconduct when three civil cases have been pending without action for several years. Interestingly, one judge was convicted because he failed in his role as manager. The prison service incurs serious criticism for a relationship involving the isolation of prisoners in custody. This has led to international criticism for decades and has been repeatedly highlighted by the JO. Isolation from other people poses a risk to both mental and physical ill health, says the JO, and believes that it can ultimately constitute a breach of the international legal framework prohibiting torture. The criticism is both that the agency has not progressed further in the work on isolation-breaking measures and that many of the detainees who had the right to stay in common still came to be in practice isolated. The JO is also critical of the fact that there are no statistics showing how many people are kept separately and in common in our detention centres. The JO has requested a review of the Prisons Act to the Government. Issues of slow handling often come back to all four ombudsmen. There are, for example, two completely straightforward cases of parking error which it took about two years for the Police Authority to deal with, which is, of course, contrary to the administrative law's requirement for cases to be dealt with as quickly as possible. Madam President, I would like Finally, the JO has a lot to say about the importance of education and skills development of employees in the state and municipalities. It also puts pressure on the committee and points out that the authorities, municipalities and regions have a responsibility to ensure that employees are given the skills development and support that may otherwise be needed to carry out their tasks in a fully correct manner. With this, Madam President, I call for the JO's report for 2019 – 2020 to be added to the record.
i-0cf68d602531886b-29	Madam President, I would like The report by the Ombudsmen of Justice has, of course, been marked by the coronapandem and the transformation that the authority and society in general had to make. The new procedures and forms of work introduced mainly worked well. The mission to safeguard the rule of law has remained unchanged but was deemed to be particularly important now that society was under pressure. In the spring of 2020, ombudsmen decided to examine, within their respective responsibilities, certain authorities where people can be held in custody to investigate the consequences of the outbreak of covid-19 for the prisoners. The ombudsmen also noted that special attention should also be paid to the impact of the pandemic on public activities and the situation of individuals vis-à-vis the authorities. The number of newly registered cases has increased steadily in recent years, and last year there was a relatively strong increase, some of which can be attributed to the pandemic. The areas that increased most in absolute terms during the year were those related to prison, health and social services. There was a marked increase in the number of cases concerning mainly penitentiary and health care from March 2020, where approximately 330 new complaints were assessed related to the coronapandemin. The total number of newly registered inspection cases decreased. The Pandemine introduced changes in the conditions for planning and carrying out inspections, in particular in the Opcat business. New inspection methods were used wherever possible and appropriate. The number of initiatives fell, while the number of legislative referrals increased. Nearly 9 400 complaints were closed during the financial year, which is about 400 more than in the previous year. In addition, there are initiatives and inspection matters. Although more cases were settled than in previous years, the closing balance increased compared to the previous year, partly due to the increased inflow. I am going to deal with a few matters in the thick lunta that is called the JO's official report and which is characteristic of some general problems in the Swedish Government. The first thing I intend to mention is the Prison Service, which many have been involved in. We all know that the Prison Service today has a tight situation. We have a large population increase and an escalating crime. We also have a public discourse that we want to lock up more violent people. All this has led to, as many have done, overcrowdings and various kinds of problems that arise with it. It is a general infrastructure problem for Swedish prison services with a lack of good premises, and there are also some staff shortages. Sweden has incurred international criticism for many years for detention centres where prisoners are forced to sit in isolation for long periods of time. This applies to both those with restrictions and those without restrictions. It is not out of malice that the Prison Service does this. There are not enough rooms with common spaces where the detainees can have their social gatherings provided. It is also a massive overcrowding of inmates in our institutions. It has been criticised by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen in the past. Everyone is aware of the problem. At the end of the day, however, it is a political issue. Authorities must have the resources to enforce the legislation we have for the inmates. They should not be forced to sit in isolation or forced into cells. It is to be hoped that, in the long term, we will be able to deal with this and to expand enough detention centres and prison centres and also to provide human resources to make it work. The other thing I was going to mention is the Kronofigdemyndigheten. This is an important case in principle. Like the previous speaker, there were many individuals who made complaints about long processing times when they were going to apply for an order for payment. In the autumn of 2018, the Swedish Enforcement Authority had begun to implement a new IT system. As often when you do, it takes longer than expected. What the agency did then to get a throughput of cases was to prioritise the large debt collection companies and their submitted digital files. They could be read mechanically, and it went much faster. This was to the detriment of individual cases. The individual's cases were correct, with adequate data and everything properly completed. But it was done either through a form or via the authority's e-service. So there was nothing wrong with the applications, but they took longer through the system. It took a certain manual procedure to get them through. The agency then prioritised the large digital files from the debt collection companies. For this, the Authority has received serious criticism from the JO. In the form of a government of Chapter 1. Paragraph 9 explicitly states that everyone must be treated equally by an authority, whether it is an individual or a large company. This is an important issue in principle, and the Parliamentary Ombudsmen here express serious criticism. It is a very good position, and it applies to all the authorities in Sweden. Should it be the case that an authority starts to give priority to large companies just because it goes faster, we are on a dangerous path and can erode public confidence in the authorities. It is a central principle of administrative law in Sweden today that everyone is equal before the authorities. The last example I was going to take up from this lunta is another interesting case of a type that is quite frequent today. In this specific case, a police patrol in Malmö had stopped a car at night that broke several traffic rules. In the car were several men who responded evasively to questions, seemed nervous and even were a bit confrontatory. The situation escalated, and the police decided to do a body visa, something for their own safety they have legal support for. However, they also decided to do a subsequent search in the vehicle. They also have some legal support for this, but the legislation on this is, as the JO points out, rather ludicrous and inconsistent. The police law states that under certain conditions the police may do so, and so the police law refers to the criminal code. However, the legal text of the Criminal Code referred to does not apply exactly to the same situation as the text of the Police Act. In the Criminal Code, the objects that can be expected to be used for criminal purposes are already listed by the police. For example, if two football fans' clubs are in the process of getting together, the police will have to pick off baseball bats, iron pipes or whatever. On the other hand, a search warrant in a vehicle does not know in advance whether these objects will be found. The JO points out that it is inconsistent legislation to refer from the Police Act to the Criminal Code when it is not the same situation. For this the police were criticized. At the same time, however, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen made a contribution, with reference to their right of initiative, to the need for this legislation to be reviewed. It is in the interest of society to curb these violent deals with kalashnikovs, knives and such, and the police must, when proper, be able to search a vehicle like this. At the same time, of course, it must be balanced against personal integrity. In Denmark it has been solved with search zones in certain exclusion areas where the police have this right. In Sweden, however, we do have rather ludicrous legislation on this. Since we seem to be getting more and more of this type of case, it is good that this is being reviewed. Having said that, I would like to conclude my speech by thanking the Parliamentary Ombudsmen for their work during the year. In accordance with the committee's proposal, I request that the Parliamentary Committee's report be added to the record.
i-0cf68d602531886b-47	Madam President, I would like Today, the debates of the KU here in the Chamber are devoted to issues of the rule of law – the rule of law in Sweden and the rule of law in the European Union. For me, the issue of the rule of law is closely linked to the issue of two other greats, namely democracy and human rights. They assume each other, and when one is missing, the other is not very much worth when it comes down to it. It is precisely at the end of the day, when the situation is acute, that the rule of law, democracy and human rights are the crucial yardstick for whether a state is to be regarded as a democracy, as an autocracy or as some other kind of non-democratic authoritarian state. A state's respect for the rule of law, democracy and human rights is what sows the chaff from the wheat. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we have a number of guardians of state and public power compliance with constitutional and other laws. This constitutional backbone ultimately promotes, maintains and guarantees citizens certain fundamental freedoms and rights. We have institutions such as the Law Council, free and independent courts and the Parliamentary Ombudsmen with the Ombudsmen of Justice, whose report is now the subject of our debate. We have the Chancellor of Justice. Soon, if a majority in the Swedish Parliament so wishes, we will also have an institute for human rights. We have free and independent media which we fully or partly support with public funding, because we believe that the foundation of a free and democratic society is a free formation of opinion with freedom of expression and freedom of the press. A majority in the Swedish Parliament believes that independent and comprehensive news coverage throughout the country is a prerequisite for citizens to be able to keep informed and form their own views on the state of things. We have a living civil society with actors such as the Bar Association, human rights organisations such as Civil Rights Defenders and Amnesty, Reporters Without Borders and others who are making huge efforts to promote and monitor respect for human rights in Sweden, in Europe and in the world. This infrastructure, Madam President, is invaluable and irreplaceable in order to keep democracy, the rule of law and human rights alive and vital. Madam President, I would like JO office is important for all of us who have been shown and live in Sweden. The JO stands up for people's equal rights and values, and fundamental rights and freedoms whenever they are reduced or not taken into account – when you don't get decisions at the right time, when you don't get public documents, when authorities make decisions without having legal support for it. In the two previous corresponding debates and in the three hearings by the KU with the JO office during this parliamentary term, I have highlighted several examples of this. This year, therefore, I thought I would focus on a group for which the JO might be even more important than for the rest of us. When the winds of opinion are blowing, Madam President, and the pendulum is swinging, it is tough for many of us politicians to stand by and hold on to what is right and right even when it is not very popular. One such area is the prison service. Who will gain the choice of defending and defending the rights of criminals, detainees or detainees? Don't they have themselves to blame for sitting there? Have they not forfeited their rights when they have harmed other people through their actions? Wouldn't it be as good to lock them up and perhaps not throw away the key but at least put them on a desert island in Öresund or beyond the borders of the country? Who or which party wants to risk being perceived as the political force that waltzes with the criminals and thugs when the overall political goal is rather a race for who is really the toughest against crime or who at least appears to be the toughest or most credible when the demands for tougher tag are banging closely? Madam President, I would like In today's criminal policy debate, it is a high tone, and hot feelings cool as we politicians flex our muscles in the fight for who has the toughest measures against crime. But when some of us remain silent or duck in the wind of opinion, the JO shines like a beacon in the dark for all those who sit in the country's overcrowded prisons, detentions and detention centres. Year after year, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen continue to pay attention to the conditions of those detained and incarcerated. Year after year, the complaints that come from individuals in prison continue to be one of the largest case groups looked at by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen. These are prisoners who do not have their rights met in various respects – people who are subjected to one of the most destructive treatments known to mankind, namely isolation. It is about people who are not allowed to do what most of us think is obvious to do like reading newspapers, watching television or calling our relatives. For the country's detainees who are denied these so-called benefits, there is nowhere in the Prison Service to turn. There is no supervisory body, and many decisions and restrictions simply cannot be appealed. But the JO exists, and to the JO these inmates turn. Not infrequently they get right and redress through the JO. Many of the cases that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have criticised over the years have concerned the Prison Service and the Agency's handling of intervention restrictions and the absence of isolation-breaking measures. Last year's official report is no exception. For me, who has now served in the KU half of the term of office and has the privilege of dealing for the third time with the JO's official report, it is clear that the rule of law in the prison system is still not good enough. It leaves much to be desired, and policy action is needed here. It's not about dyin' with criminals. It's about upholding everyone's equality before the law. In a civilised and democratic society, we have laws and rules on how we treat our citizens even when they commit crimes. The right and value of the individual applies to everyone and always, even when you are in custody. Madam President, I would like We live at a time when the number of democracies in the world is falling, not more. We live at a time when the rule of law is being called into question, when political opposition in Russia, Belarus and Hong Kong is being detained, tortured and even sentenced and imprisoned in political trials, and when respect for human rights is faltering not only in the world or in the EU, but unfortunately also in Sweden as regards the situation of those detained. All good things are three – as is the rule of law, democracy and human rights. The JO office is one of the most important guarantors of their respect. Madam President, I would like In accordance with the Constitutional Committee's proposal, I call for the story to be added to the record.
i-0cf68d602531886b-66	Madam President, I would like I usually say that I proudly represent the smallest party in Parliament. This also means that I always come last in debates. Sometimes it is more challenging than otherwise, and it takes a certain amount of courage to follow up Linda Modigs and my other colleagues' contributions. I thank the previous speaker for their fine speech and will now try to put this together a little bit. For some employees at our public authorities in Sweden, the JO's official report is one of the training courses you can take part in when it comes to administrative law. It may also be the only one, because training often has to be given priority to what is at issue and perhaps not the area of justice. This is an extremely instructive act, and it provides both depth and breadth. You will see how fundamental issues are handled in other authorities than where you work yourself. The whole matter has been explained in the past, and the KU has also held a public hearing in which the Ombudsman presented his assessments and we in committee had the opportunity to ask questions. Our authorities and everyone who works there will work on the basis of the state values. It goes again even if you don't work in the state. It is about democracy, legality, objectivity, freedom of opinion, respect and efficiency and service. I believe that the previous speaker has touched on just all those aspects. This means respecting democratic decisions, that all decisions that you are involved in should comply with the law, that the handling and execution should be objective and impartial, and that you should respect the rights and freedoms of the constitutions. You should always show respect for each other and the people you meet in the ministry. As if this were not to happen quickly and efficiently – and preferably cheap too, because we want to be careful with the tax money. It is understood that this is a major task in public administration, and there are high expectations. The high expectations should be met regardless of who you meet, as we have heard in the examples before. An important assessment for me and the Green Party is that the systems, the public, are for the citizen. The individual citizen seeking help and support should receive it. It is not the easiest or most convenient thing for the authority that is the guide, but the right help, the right support and security for those who are somehow in contact with the public is the important thing. Maybe we're not our best self all the time. Maybe we're the ones who committed crimes. We may have done terrible things to other people and be intoxicated or drug-affected. You can be unsure of how to get and your family to a safe country. It is to the authorities that you turn to with concern for children who are in harm's way. All these situations, as some have pointed out, are affected by the pandemic that we are in. I asked a question about this at our hearing. The answer is that efforts have been made to take rapid action. It has not been right all the time, but they have continuously tried to adjust so that it will be right. We also see from the examples in the report that it has sometimes taken too long and that sometimes you may not really see where the limits should go. But it is a stressful situation that we are in and have been in for almost a year. A particular matter that I am thinking of concerns a person whose sickness benefit was withdrawn without the Swedish Social Insurance Agency finding out how the investigation could be done in a way that made it possible for the person to participate in it. It was not documented that or why the person's needs were not met. Then the sickness allowance was withdrawn. Once this was done, the explanatory statement for the decisions broke down. This is exactly what I see as an example of when the Authority's mill grinds on and it is not the individual's need for support that is guiding. This has led to serious criticism from the JO. In this case, the advantage of audits is highlighted quite clearly. It is hard to be examined, but it actually gives something. Försäkringskassan now describes how to train more when it comes to, for example, alternative forms of meeting that make it easier for people to participate. It is also important to ensure that decision-making procedures that exist around decision-making are actually known and used. In view of this, I asked at the hearing when we met the Ombudsmen of Justice how they feel that decisions are being received. The answer was mainly positive– they face a desire to improve. Sometimes you may not be aware of the errors that are being made, and sometimes you may not really think like the JO, but it still starts development work. I think that's very important. This is also an issue that JO is working on, i.e. that the authority's decision should have more impact. I think this is important and would like to highlight what the committee points out about the public as an employer being responsible for ensuring that employees have good knowledge of these issues. Both I and the committee wish to emphasise the importance of state values.
i-0cf68d602531886b-83	Madam President, I would like I want to start by apologizing for missing out on the side before. I haven't been here to talk in 380 days. But it's so nice to be here now. Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Union is based on mutual understanding, a common understanding of the fundamental values that are important and respect for them. The Constitutional Committee has received the first annual report on the rule of law, the KU14, or as Madam President began by saying before I was given the floor: the 2020 report on the rule of law. As early as 2019, the Constitutional Committee expressed positive support for the Commission's initiative to start discussing the development of tools such as conditional EU support, in other words the rule of law mechanism. It is one thing that Sweden has been most involved in the development of. Madam President, I would like Like many with me, I value the important and strong values on which the Union is built. In my speech, I would like to highlight in particular the following points: a Union based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values shall be common to the Member States in a society characterised by diversity, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and the principle of equality between men and women. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Not only fine words but words that are binding, words that maintain the order we have agreed upon. They are taken out of Article 2 of the EU Treaty, for those who want to know more. The report provides a framework for positive trends but also for major challenges. Further work concerns the strengthening of the Union and its Member States and the ongoing work on developing and catching up. It is of interest that the Commission's response to the report could read out the concern that vulnerable groups, including women, disabled people, Roma, older people and LGBT+ people, continue to see their rights flouted in some Member States. Nor are these groups fully protected from hatred and discrimination. Madam President, I would like For example, some time ago we were able to read that in some municipalities the Member State of Poland has set up LGBTI+ free zones, which should be, as it were, free from ideology. The Commission has strongly opposed this and has raised strong protests among several Member States. This morning we were able to read in the media about a Polish city whose city council has withdrawn its declaration on this particular free zone. I'm glad to hear that. May more come to that realization! We shall bear in mind that it is the joint work that leads to these results. Compassion is a fine thing, and standing up for what is right is our common principle. Madam President, I would like When the Constitutional Committee has had the report for discussion, there have not been very big issues or lively discussions. But it is probably because we feel in all agreement that the content is highly topical and of great importance. We welcome this annual report. Our assessment is that an annual review can help to increase respect for the rule of law and also further develop our major joint project on the points that the report touches upon. I would therefore like to support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to add the opinion to the document.
i-0cf68d602531886b-95	Madam President, I would like Our committee welcomed an initiative from the European Commission just under two years ago to discuss how to find tools to protect the Union's fundamental values, including respect for the rule of law. The initiative was welcome, not least because in recent years we have seen some worrying trends in several EU countries. These have been measures, for example, that have reduced the independence of courts and the signs of serious corruption in countries' state appliances. The result of the initiative was an annual review of the state of the rule of law in all EU countries. For some time now, we have been able to read the first audit carried out. It contains some positive trends in the area of the rule of law, but it also reveals a number of serious problems. It is satisfying to note that the report is by no means as toothless as some skeptics have feared. Disadvantages are highlighted in a clear and sharp way. There is therefore a good chance that this and future annual reports will help to underline respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. They are the cornerstones of democracy and also central to cooperation within the Union. This new EU tool has its background in the values laid down in the EU Treaty, as the previous speaker also touched upon. These include respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. The Treaty also contains provisions on the rule of law with specific comments that it is not only about the functioning of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but also about the state of the national courts. Countries wishing to join the European Union are being examined on the basis of how they live up to these values, which I have just listed. With this review tool, it will be possible to better see how things are in countries that are already in the EU. The work has focused on four main pillars: the legal system, the anti-corruption framework, media pluralism, and other institutional controls and counterweights, as it says. The 2020 Justice Report also addresses issues related to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the rule of law. There'll be more about it in a minute. With regard to the first area, the judicial system, there is serious concern about its independence in several Member States. In several Member States, reforms have been implemented to reduce corruption. But here, too, there are still countries where corruption, even at a high level, is widespread. It raises fears. Regarding the third area, media pluralism and media freedom, some concerns about efficiency, adequate resources and the risk of politicisation of media regulators are reported. The landscape identifies a number of cases where stakeholders have expressed serious concerns about the political independence of the media. In several EU countries, journalists, especially women journalists, and other media actors are also exposed to threats and attacks. With regard to the fourth area, institutional controls and counterweights, the report notes, among other things, that in some Member States there are examples of civil society having been under great pressure. It may be that civil society organisations have been subjected to unjustified state intervention. Madam President, I would like The report points out that the covid-19 pandemic poses major challenges for society. Decisions have been taken restricting rights and freedoms. Not least, freedom of movement has been severely restricted. For my part, I am very concerned about many of the measures introduced in all EU countries, including our own country, Sweden. They may be highly motivated and necessary on their own, but the ease of implementation of many of the measures raises concerns. I am concerned that, in future, many of our rights and freedoms will be curtailed too easily by referring to public health. However, most social functions have been able to function relatively well. Thank IT and digital meetings and contacts for that! I almost shudder at the idea that society had been shut down in the same way during previous pandemics, of which I myself had been involved in a couple. I am thinking, among other things, of the Asians at the end of the 50's and the Hong Kong flu in the 60's. A lot of people were sick, but the community was on the move anyway. However, our opportunities for opinion formation are damaged by the opportunities it offers us today. It may, among other things, go beyond the possibilities of running electoral movements and may thus also be detrimental to democracy. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to ask the Parliament to add the opinion of the Constitutional Committee to the record.
i-HjiSqV1zrAUhknLWc4ajdn	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee in its opinion on the principles of the rule of law14. Before Christmas we dealt with the Kingdom government. I said then to defend Sweden is about defending the modern as well as the historical. It is about equipping our constitutions and our institutions to guarantee the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy and human rights. These tasks are timeless. But it is not enough to do this in isolation in Sweden. Work must be done in harmony between the Member States of the Union as the functioning of the rule of law in Europe affects us in Sweden. That is why the 2020 report on the rule of law is important. The European rule of law within the Union is based on a community of values and integrity. A central part of our European Community and Union is the Copenhagen criteria. They guarantee democracy and human rights. I would like to quote the same text that colleagues Andersson and Jilmstad read out, because it is so important to me and to others. The Union shall be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values shall be common to the Member States in a society characterised by diversity, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and the principle of equality between men and women. ..................................................... However, there is a dilemma. Once Member States have passed the eye of the needle for these criteria but then start to derail, sanction mechanisms should be introduced. The European Council may decide on sanctions, not least financial ones, but as a basis for annual screening, which is now the subject of this report. In previous assignments, I have worked to strengthen cooperation between municipalities in the Baltic Sea region. Ten years ago, the focus was on urban planning, the environment, social issues and the like, but a conversation emerged between the municipal councillors around the Baltic Sea. Local mayors brought forward ideas and vigilance on how to maintain open society, trust between citizens, free media and elected representatives. There was talk of how the interaction between the state and the municipalities would take place. In short, a debate on democracy emerged rather than a discussion about which environmental effort was the best. Of course, they are not opposed to each other, but I note the power of the discussion. My Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues told me how important it was for them to have personal contacts and telephone numbers with colleagues in Finland, Germany, Norway and Sweden. This is, of course, a reflection in our country too, when the values of liberal democracy are threatened by some of our neighbours. Sweden has a role to play here. Madam President, I would like In the talks we had in connection with the report, which was presented by Commissioner Jourová, who is responsible for values and transparency, she described developments in recent years. She expressed clear concern about developments in parts of Europe. In many countries democracy is strong, but in others there are significant problems with corruption, difficulties for independent media to function precisely independently and politically in court proceedings, particularly in Poland and Hungary. Commissioner Jourová had many thoughts about what can and what needs to be done to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. One was about education with clearer knowledge of history so that young people know what has happened back in time. It equips future generations with tools for what is right and wrong based on the common values on which the Union is founded. Another thought was about independent media. We know that journalists are under threat and that systematic misinformation is ongoing. It is nothing new, but in the digital explosion that has taken place in recent years, the volume of hate, threats and interference has accelerated due to the technology enabling even those who want to do harm. A third thought was about active citizens. You can't be passive when a mob in Washington storms a parliament. Nor can democracy be handed over to a few experts. What is in the form of government applies: All public power is based on the people. After all, there are many good examples of people's commitment that strengthen the principles I mentioned earlier. Civil society is engaged. The study associations have extensive activities. Another example is the large and voluntary efforts that are being made in associations. One should not underestimate the training that it means having board meetings, minutes, statutes and annual meetings. It may be a sports association or cultural association – there is a value in the democratic education that you get there. It is a day-to-day and grassroots democracy that resolves common affairs on a legal basis. Madam President, I would like I welcome an in-depth dialogue with the Commission in order to develop and maintain a liberal democracy regime based precisely on solid constitutions and institutions guaranteeing the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the protection and promotion of national minorities. I also welcome the new regulation protecting the Union budget in the event of breaches of these principles. Against this background, the 2020 report on the rule of law is important.
i-0cf68d602531886b-122	Madam President, I would like The European Union is built on a string of deeply fundamental values that we must stand up for. Democracy, the rule of law, equality and equality are not something we can take for granted. The EU Treaty is as beautiful as it is clear. We know that repetition is the mother of knowledge, so I repeat what others have already read out: The Union shall be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values shall be common to the Member States in a society characterised by diversity, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and the principle of equality between men and women. ..................................................... These are values that should not only be on paper and read on solemn occasions, but should also be expressed in everyday life. This is the first time the European Commission has presented a report on the status of democracy in the Union. It is long awaited and something that Europe's Greens have been at the forefront for a long time. The report is now being discussed in all Parliaments, and I believe that it will highlight both shortcomings and merits and, above all, learn more about ourselves and our friends around Europe. It will be particularly exciting to follow the dialogue on the reports in all countries in the future. However, it is not just light reading. In several countries, democracy is in decline. Poland restricts both the independence of the judiciary and the rights of women. Right now, the question of the right to abortion is topical. It also restricts the independence of the media. In fact, it is on such a scale that a Swedish publicist was recently asked to correct a debate article submitted in his publication. According to Poland's ambassador, the debater felt wrong. Another example is Hungary, where the rights and freedoms of minorities are restricted and where Orbán is gaining more and more empowerment. The report also shows worrying developments in countries such as Malta, Bulgaria and Romania where freedom of the press is under threat and corruption is increasing. Moreover, when we put the pandemic as a break over the picture, it becomes even more troubling. As others before me have said, this must continue to be followed up. The report needs to be a wake-up call. The European Union must work hard, and the Commission must follow up, report and present an action plan on how to deal with what it sees to be done. Not a crown should go to countries that do not stand up for the common values of the European Union. The new regulation protecting the Union budget in the event of breaches of the principles of the rule of law really needs to have an effect. A Union that does not stand up for fundamental rights is just a house of cards. In committee, we look forward to the annual review, and it will be a way of drawing attention to and increasing the protection of the principles of the rule of law.
i-0cf68d602531886b-131	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are broadly satisfied with the measures and support packages announced by the government, especially for larger companies that in many cases have been able to satisfy themselves more effectively than many small businesses have been able to do. However, we have criticised, and continue to criticise, the government's inability to take account of the situation of smaller companies, which, in this crisis, place extra demands on them. Both regulation and bureaucracy have in many cases made it difficult for vulnerable companies to apply for the support offered. According to a survey carried out by the National Association of Entrepreneurs, about 15 per cent of smaller companies have refrained from seeking support for fear of being liable for repayment. It is 15% who are in need of support and who now find it difficult to survive the crisis. The reason is in many cases the twitchiness and ambiguity that government policy has brought to entrepreneurs. It is probably not only I who have been contacted by entrepreneurs who feel despair over the regulations that they have to contend with before they can even apply for support. Larger companies often have better basic prerequisites to seek the right support because both resources and expertise are often found within the companies' own walls, and this greatly simplifies the application process. How is a small company supposed to navigate in this jungle of dynamic business support, where rules and requirements change as often as we here in Parliament handle amending budgets? Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that our Swedish companies deserve clarity and consistency. Small entrepreneurs need time and energy to focus on their businesses. Spending the days googling after explanations on support measures is not kickstarting Sweden, nor is it the best way to reverse the rise in unemployment. Many entrepreneurs today live under severe stress. It's uncertainty if the company is going to survive. It's guilt that you can't afford to keep your staff. It's stress on the private economy. Anticipation and planning are a prerequisite for running a business. We have repeatedly criticized the government's remarkable tours around the turnover step and various comparative months. First, the government demanded 30%, then 40%, then 50%, and then went back to 40, and finally the government is back at 30% of the turnover rate in order to benefit from the conversion aid. It is good and absolutely necessary for aid to be extended, but we believe that it would be more appropriate if total net sales should have decreased by 30% or more for the months of August – December as a requirement to benefit from the aid. In addition, we believe that the same conditions should also apply to trading companies. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are behind decisions that during the pandemic limit companies' right to state aid while companies decide on, for example, dividends to shareholders, buy-backs of own shares or other transfers of value. A company that is economically strong enough to distribute surpluses to its owners cannot be in such a bad condition that it will simultaneously lift state aid measures. But there are exceptions, and one of them is the few-man company and the simplification rule linked to the 3:12 rule. For many small companies, the limit amount of the simplification rule is a necessity to reconcile the private economy. There are entrepreneurs who cannot charge more than SEK 10 000 per month's salary from their company and at the same time need to make use of the entire lump sum. Here it is not appropriate to have the same regulatory framework for large listed companies as for small few-member companies. We believe that a good solution to this is simply to exempt few-person companies from the entire distribution limit. For the Swedish Democrats it is strange that the deferred tax should be punished with increased interest in a time of crisis. The fact that the grace period is linked to a cost is reasonable for the aid not to be used by undertakings which do not need it. But to add to companies that are in urgent need of support increased cost burdens we see as simply wrong. Postponing the tax is also a risk for some companies that live on the margins. An entrepreneur has said: The risk is that it will be like peeing. It gets hot for a while, but then it gets worse. I don't think you have to be an entrepreneur to understand that metaphor. Our proposal means that companies should be able to amortise the deferred tax for three years after the expiry of the grace period. In this way, we reduce the risk of companies going bankrupt due to slow recovery combined with large tax payments. No one benefits from bankruptcy, where it can also be the State that has to take a large part of those costs. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats support the Government's proposal to extend short-term work during the first half of the year. But just as the Riksbank and the Financial Supervisory Authority only yesterday warned us, it is important not to withdraw support too quickly. Today, we can only hope that we will get started with mass vaccination and that the vaccines will provide us with adequate protection. Only then can we start planning for a freer everyday life. We do not think there is a great risk that employers will continue to keep their staff laid off when the economy gets back on track. On the contrary, it is likely that the staff will be needed on site at work. Some companies will find it easier to get started and get their customers back. But for some companies it will take longer to scale up their business. We are therefore in favour of the same extension in time as the government, but without escalation. Madam President, I would like It is a well-known fact that there is a connection between activity and results. That is to say, repeating one's actions will have the same result. In order to get another result, you need to change your actions. Why does the government want to repeat an experiment with which the Alliance has already failed? I refer to the Government's proposal for a reduction in the social security contribution for young people. If I remember correctly, the government and Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, abolished this subsidy in 2016 and that is because they thought it was far too expensive and inefficient. But now the government believes that it is so effective that it is even brought forward. The Swedish Democrats are not alone in being critical of this proposal. Several heavier consultation bodies object to the Government's proposal. Studies of the Alliance's attempts show that the reform was very expensive and ineffective in many ways. We are not critical of reducing employers' contributions, on the contrary. But we are critical that they are lowered for some and not for all. It's problematic. The state should always strive for competition neutrality. Pricing companies with a higher proportion of young people in their workforce means at the same time discriminating against companies in need of a higher proportion of older people in their workforce. We believe that it is a matter for each individual company to put its team together in the best way. We would therefore have preferred to see employers' contributions reduced in line with the same net public financial impact, but for all workers, regardless of age. In the Committee on Finance's report 2020/ 21:FiU20, the Swedish Democrats advocated a 25% reduction in general wage contributions for all companies by July this year. We are convinced that such a reform would have been a better measure for more people to have a job and an income to live on. Finally, I support the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats in both reports.
i-0cf68d602531886b-152	Madam President, I would like It's nice to see you at a great distance, but still! Once again, we are here debating an extraordinary amending budget, or rather two. Four are already in place this year. Normal is two a year. Many people have suffered in the crisis – lost a loved one, become seriously ill. Children and young people are affected by their schooling. The staff in health care are making enormous efforts but are not enough. And there are many of us who want to meet close and dear. That longing is great. People are losing their jobs, and businesses are having a difficult financial situation. The government has made many efforts to mitigate the consequences and rightly so. The state, i.e. the taxpayer, goes in and saves businesses financially. We're helping each other out in the crisis. Then what does Sandvik do? Well, they take out 300 million of taxpayers' money in the form of lay-off subsidies and then distribute more than 8 billion to shareholders. People were, of course, greatly ossified and rightly so. And today Volvo came: 1 billion in lay-off support and 30 billion in dividends. Then it is difficult to say that these companies have been in serious financial difficulties. Companies like Sandvik and Volvo should have stayed too good to deal with taxpayers in this way. We're supposed to help each other in the crisis, not exploit it financially. Grants after grants are developed to save businesses and jobs. Then I might think that companies should have great respect for this, take moral responsibility and not seek money unnecessarily. However, it is the owners of the companies who should primarily invest capital in the companies. Large multinational companies such as Sandvik and Volvo should have made a misjudgement when they tried to return the money on their own. I assume that there will be a systematic evaluation and follow-up of these subsidies and of the companies seeking help. If they do not live up to the criteria, the money must be paid back, and the state must ensure that. The fact that the companies in the budget we are now discussing are proposed to receive dividends after six months is, in my view, wrong, both morally and from a crisis perspective. If companies have been so badly hit that they have had to seek help and contributions from taxpayers, it is reasonable and moral that the state requires them to build up the economy and create an economic buffer in the company before dividends are granted so that they can cope with a possible new crisis and so that taxpayers know that their money went to what they would – to save jobs and businesses – and not to dividends. The Left Party has proposed that a year should pass before a dividend is allowed. That would probably prevent some companies that do not need support from seeking it. The other parties are talking about the control having to be thorough. That sounds good, but why do they not want the companies that have dividends to have to report it to the authority responsible for the subsidies? Otherwise, it may be difficult to control, among other things, transfers from foreign parent companies in groups. This has been proposed by the Left Party, and it has been requested by the responsible authority. But what's going on here today? Yes, the proposal will be rejected. All other parties think it is reasonable. Why? Similarly, our proposal, a proposal that the Prosecution Authority also wants to see, is rejected, that no new money should be paid out in preliminary support before a reconciliation of the old support is completed. In other words, if the notification of previous aid has not been made, the application shall be rejected. We're supposed to be looking after taxpayers' money. That is why we believe that this rule needs to be changed. We also believe that the limit on the requirement for auditor's certificates should be set at a lower salary than the proposed amount and that contributions for auditor's certificates should primarily go to smaller companies with more limited resources. I think there will be many empty words about controls and harsher penalties if the political will to prevent cheating and exploitation is not greater than this. Short-term lay-off aid is strengthened and extended, and that is good and necessary. It is good for those who would otherwise have lost their job, and it is good for companies that are allowed to retain competent and experienced staff. On the other hand, it should be self-evident that the aid should be for companies that have collective agreements, because it is an effective control mechanism to prevent misuse of the aid. Furthermore, companies should not be allowed to benefit from short-term lay-off aid during the period of notice. That is, of course, contrary to the whole intention of support, and it increases the incentive for employers to lay off their staff. Madam President, I would like Throw the money in the lake! S a Center Party and demanded reduced social security contributions for young people again. Almega's political branch has demanded delivery. Master whistles, and the Center waves its tail and delivers. Never mind that it is a reform that has failed both one and two and three times and cost taxpayers a lot of money. Letting politics be governed by lobbyists like Almega is something that the Social Democrats should beware of – although it is a liberal parade industry nowadays. Instead, they waste taxpayers' money. Despite the fact that this is, as I said, a reform that has been condemned time and again and which the Social Democrats have condemned with very harsh words in the past, we are now going to spend another billion on this. This money, which is now being thrown into the sea, should have been spent on education, active labour market policies and forwarding public investment for the sake of welfare, climate and jobs. And why not make sure that we get an employment agency in all the municipalities in the country? Today, the Employment Service remains in 88 municipalities in the worst unemployment crisis we have seen, yes, for a long time. We note that the neo-liberal policies of the Centre Party are costly for both the individual and society. One supplementary amending budget proposes an extension of tax deferrals. That's reasonable. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that interest rates should be increased. Why should we have higher interest rates now, when the crisis is deeper? That is why we in the Left Party have chosen to support the committee initiative taken by the Moderates, which means that the interest rate is reduced to the level at which it is now. This would mean a significantly lower cost for companies in need of postponing tax payments. The Government also proposes an extension of the regulation allowing persons belonging to a risk group and not having the opportunity to work from home to receive compensation during the period when they are unable to work. We welcome the extension of the validity period but are very critical of how the government has handled this group. This has been an issue throughout the pandemic. It took an unreasonable time before the regulation first came into force. In the two extensions of the Regulation's duration, there has been a glitch in the absence of compensation for those concerned, despite the fact that the Left Party and several other parties have pointed out the importance of the government acting in good time. Regrettably, the government's actions have led to economic and psychological suffering for those who have been affected. That's just not how you treat people, let alone people in a vulnerable situation. Madam President, I would like The proportion insured at day 180 has quadrupled since 2015. At that time, some 400 applications per month were rejected; now the figure is over 2,200. The refusals increased significantly between 2019 and 2020 as a result of changes in the working methods of Försäkringskassan. Despite this, no other party wants to review how Försäkringskassan works. In addition, figures were recently presented showing that sickness benefit rates have fallen in 2020 compared with the previous year. In the midst of the worst crisis that has hit Sweden in modern times, sickness benefits are reduced. How is this possible? Now the government acts in part by proposing changes at day 180 so that sick people do not have to be tried against fictitious jobs throughout the labour market in the way that has been done previously. That's good, but permanent changes are needed. The investigation that has been presented should be carried out in full. We believe that this issue really needs to be taken much more seriously than has been done so far. It cannot be the intention for tens of thousands of people with medical certificates to be forced to go to the social services to make ends meet. It is health insurance that should apply then, not supply support. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that we are calling for a more balanced response to this crisis. It is not sustainable to give hundreds of billions in support to the business community while health care, care for the elderly and the Public Employment Service are on their knees. Many households have been hit very hard by increased unemployment and the disappearance of extra jobs, but the increased housing allowance for families with children has not been extended. Finally, the Left Party believes that once the economy has stabilised, it is reasonable for companies to start paying back some of the aid they have received through increased corporate taxes and increased capital taxation. I therefore support our reservation.
i-0cf68d602531886b-181	Madam President, I would like We are debating today two amending budgets which contain a great deal that is good and necessary to continue to cope with Sweden as best as possible through the crisis. However, the road here has been unreasonably long, twitchy and messy. It has been edged by unclear information, delays and lengthy processing times by public authorities, which means that there is a desperation in companies and one wonders why the aid that is now being extended cannot be applied for until February or March. After that, long processing times are waiting. I think it is clear that the government, which started crisis management by getting various reforms in place, has been slower and has not been sufficiently prepared for the second wave of the pandemic. This also has consequences in companies and for those who work in companies, who depend on the support efforts to be able to fix another day. This slowness should be criticised, and the government must now do everything possible to ensure that support is not only decided here in the Swedish parliament but also reach out to struggling companies and employees who want to make it through the crisis. If we fail to do this, we will have unemployment that is at risk of getting stuck at very high levels, with major consequences for health, social cohesion, our public finances and welfare. This must be avoided, Madam President. This twitchiness and slowness applies not only to business subsidies but also to other aid that we now decide on in these budgets. These are, for example, support for risk groups, which have been edged by lengthy information and periods when you simply have not known whether you can get compensation and when it comes. It is as if the government has provided that people have a year's salary in the bank, and for a great many it is not so, Madam President. There are things that are good: increased support for vaccination, testing and contamination detection. It is good that those resources are put in place so that the regions know that there is no shortage of money when carrying out testing, detection and vaccination, which is so important also to get the economy back on its feet properly. But there are also things that are really worth noting and discussing. The government is now bringing forward the introduction of a reduced social security contribution for young people. It is a measure that I and the Christian Democrats do not believe is the most effective at this stage, but it is, of course, better than nothing. I note that I have debated this and asked the government why it is planned to introduce it only on 1 April. It was then impossible to introduce it earlier; now it is all of a sudden possible. So something's happened here. It is a good thing that a reform that is not very effective but better than nothing now comes into place earlier. I believe that it would have been better to provide targeted relief to all those who employ someone who has been unemployed, but also to consider now introducing targeted reductions in employers' contributions for those sectors that are particularly vulnerable. Today, they have a higher cost per hour as they try to keep their business going. They should now be given a targeted relief in terms of employers' contributions that apply to everyone, not just those who happen to be of a certain age. That would be far better at this point, Madam President. By means of the decisions we take today, we are now extending lay-off aid, and we are doing so at higher levels. We are extending and strengthening conversion aid, even for individual firms, which were so long forgotten by the government in this pandemic. Now the aid will also come to them, and it will be extended. I note that, as these subsidies are now extended and extended, it has been justified by the government, including by Per Bolund, that we now need to ensure that companies are able to retain their employees and that people are able to keep their jobs. That is what Per Bolund said when these aids were extended, not least the lay-off aid. It will then be so strange, Madam President, that aid works in exactly the opposite way for those who have fixed-term contracts, temporary contracts and probationary contracts. I am surprised that the government continues to insist on the requirement that all companies taking part in lay-off aid should first terminate all temporary staff, unless one can obtain an exception that these staff are critical of activity. So there is a basic requirement for companies to get rid of employees, not to keep them, as Per Bolund said in this interview. Then why is it like this? Well, this rule has been proposed in a normal economic situation when an individual company is facing economic problems. But it doesn't work in a crisis. This was already confirmed in 2011 by the joint investigation, which investigated how we would be doing when we introduced a lay-off system in Sweden. It was then concluded that temporary staff would be included. The State investigation into this in 2012 came to exactly the same conclusion. However, this is what it says: is that the exclusion of fixed-term workers from a short-term work scheme would risk making the situation of this group in the labour market more precarious. They should therefore be covered. ..................................................... That was also the conclusion of the bill in 2013. However, the government has chosen to add this rule, which does not work at all in a crisis, but sends the absolutely weakest, the weakest in the labour market, into unemployment so that the permanent workers can receive support. This was pointed out by the Institute of Economics of the Government in March. It has been pointed out many times in this House without any arguments being put forward at all that it would be a good idea to force companies to lay off temporary staff in times of crisis. I believe that we need the extensions and reinforcements, but we also need lay-off aid that will allow as many people as possible in the crisis to get caught up in their jobs. Employment relations are very valuable when the economy is to start again so that unemployment does not get stuck at very high levels and so that people do not end up in long-term unemployment and exclusion. I would therefore like to support the Christian Democratic reservation, number 2 of the report. I am concerned that the government is not paying attention to the problems of subsidies. The fact that aid is extended and strengthened is a good thing, but it must also be changed in order not to push for unnecessarily high unemployment in Sweden.
i-0cf68d602531886b-197	Madam President, I would like The Coronandem has now had Sweden in its grip for more than a year. People still pass away or suffer severe illness. In health and long-term care, working days are still long and exhausting. Vaccination has begun. But we all need to keep our distance, refrain from social contacts and work from home if we can, because we know it saves human lives. The pandemic is primarily a threat to life and health, but the economic consequences are also very great. The world economy has gone through one of the most powerful cases since World War II. In Sweden, many are concerned about their future supply. Many companies are in a very tough economic situation. Today, we will decide on extended and reinforced crisis measures, which will help more companies to retain their employees and overwinter the economic crisis. It has always been uncertain how this crisis would develop, not least how long it would last. It has also been important for us to get money quickly for those who needed support. This has meant that financial support has needed and needs to be continuously adjusted to be accurate, while our common resources are being used responsibly. Today, too, it is a united Finance Committee that is behind the government's return with a reduction in the interest on deferred payments. That is another such adjustment. Today we are here to debate two additional amending budgets of nearly SEK 50 billion in crisis measures to save jobs and prosperity, but primarily to save lives. Madam President, I would like In the work against covid-19, the government has been clear: money must not, will not and should not stand in the way of protecting people's lives and health. Health care and care for the elderly have therefore received substantial supplements. Today we are deciding on further reinforcements to secure the resources for vaccination, detection and medical care. It is about 5 1⁄2 billion to the regions for continued large-scale testing and detection and 1 billion to cover additional costs of healthcare and care due to covid-19 for December 2020. In total, municipalities and regions have thus received 21 billion in compensation for additional costs in 2020. 50 million will be allocated to support the regions' efforts to transport patients between them, 50 million will be allocated to ambulance flights and 174 million will be allocated to emergency airports. Madam President, I would like The regions of Sweden are responsible for vaccinating as quickly and efficiently as possible, but the costs of the vaccine are borne by the parliament and government. For this, we increase the grant for the acquisition of vaccines to SEK 4.7 billion, while increasing the grant for the acquisition of vaccines by SEK 2 billion. Several authorities also receive contributions to support the regions in their work on vaccination. The Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority will receive increased funding to carry out, together with other authorities, information actions on vaccination against covid-19. Madam President, I would like Today, we are also deciding on funds for extended compensation to risk groups and certain relatives until 30 April of this year. I know that many people have had to wait for this money, and I understand that it has caused a lot of concern and also suffering, but today, at least, we can finally decide on more funds for this. Today we are also taking a first step towards fairer health insurance. The Pandemin has put the health insurance flaws in lightning. Therefore, the government and its co-operative parties agreed that health insurance should be improved for those who are ill for more than 180 days. This change will come into effect later this year. Until then, the 180-day trial needs to be temporarily suspended, and for this we are pushing resources here today. In view of the increased spread of infection and the Pandemic Act, we will today decide on several important reinforcements and extensions of the government's financial crisis support. We extend and strengthen the conversion aid and turnover support, while at the same time allocating funds for a new future aid aimed at commercial and limited partnerships with at least one physical partner. In order to support small companies in particular, we are also introducing an opportunity for them to have up to 90 per cent of the fixed costs reimbursed during the period November – February. We decide on a new closure aid, where companies can have up to 100% of their fixed costs reimbursed if they are shut down. We are also extending the state credit guarantee programme Enterprise Act. Almost 600 000 Swedes have been on short-term leave during the crisis, thus avoiding the risk of losing their job. Short-term lay-offs are an important measure both for employees to keep their jobs and for companies to retain important labour. We are now extending the aid until 30 June, while at the same time strengthening it by means of an opportunity to reduce the working time of employees by up to 80% in January – March. We are also bringing forward the reduction in employers' contributions for young people between the ages of 19 and 23 so that it will take effect as from 1 January. Not least, this can help hard hit industries in hotels and restaurants that employ just many young people. Madam President, I would like Many companies have benefited from emergency aid, and many have also benefited from it relatively quickly. However, some companies are waiting and have waited a long time for the payment of aid. Of course, that's not good at all. In order to overcome the acute liquidity problems faced by many, the grace period is now extended by one year, while deferment is granted for several periods. The Swedish Agency for Growth and some other authorities also have more resources to reduce processing time while improving control. Of course, the majority of those seeking emergency aid are honest entrepreneurs in need of support. But we must not be naive about taxpayers' money. There are large amounts of money involved, and so there is also the risk that criminals see it as a possible source of income. Therefore, society must have proper control measures in place. Madam President, I would like No government in any country will be able to save all jobs or businesses. Despite the huge support for crisis and the massive investment that we are now making in educational opportunities across the country, in prosperity and in climate change, we see unemployment rising. More efforts will be needed to repress unemployment in the wake of the crisis. However, for those who still suffer unemployment, whether it is due to a pandemic or for some other reason, the unemployment fund should be a strong conversion insurance. That is why we have temporarily increased unemployment insurance, and here today we are also deciding to extend the temporary relief of unemployment insurance for entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like Overall, the total cost of all crisis measures now amounts to SEK 374 billion. It is not possible to describe this as anything but historical! We can afford it because we entered the crisis at a good starting point, thanks to the lowest public debt since 1977 and because 350 000 more were in work than before Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. The crisis is still far from over. Our full focus is on continuing to secure resources for vaccination and medical care while saving jobs and businesses. Let's get on with that work. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposals in the reports and reject the motions.
i-0cf68d602531886b-218	Madam President, I would like I thought Åsa Westlund could explain to me why companies that have received taxpayers' money, such as Volvo and Sandvik, should be able to make dividends after six months. Have these companies really been in a serious economic situation? It is, however, the requirement for such aid to be recovered. Does Åsa Westlund think that Sandvik, who has received 300 million of taxpayers' money in grants and then distributed 8 billion, has been in a serious economic situation? Volvo has today announced that they will distribute 30 billion, and they have received 1 billion in lay-off aid – it corresponds to the salaries of approximately 2,500 nurses. Does Åsa Westlund believe that Volvo has been in a serious economic situation? Volvo's profit for the fourth quarter was also higher than the corresponding quarter of 2019. What do the Social Democrats say to taxpayers? Should these companies not have been able to cope with the crisis themselves? Should these companies be considered to have been in a serious economic crisis? What does Åsa Westlund say to taxpayers? Is this morally right? Was this the right way to use the money? Have the companies afterwards found out that the crisis was perhaps not as deep as they thought and that they were perhaps in a bit of a hurry? Shouldn't they be paying the money back to the state?
i-0cf68d602531886b-221	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that I too am very upset when I see these payments. I think it is the responsibility of entrepreneurs and owners to also support the company in crisis. It's part of being an entrepreneur... absolutely. I'm upset, too. At the same time, I think a little longer. There are companies that have refrained from short-term lay-offs and who have instead resigned staff because they want to distribute money to their shareholders. Then my solidarity lies with the employees. I think it is important that we have stood up for people to maintain links with the labour market and with their workplace during this crisis. It has been worth a great deal to me as a social democrat, and it will continue to be so. Having said that, I think that companies that are now making very large dividends should consider an extra lap of what kind of signals it sends when it comes to the state's willingness to help in future crises. It should also be borne in mind that Ulla Andersson's solution to this issue, to extend the time that companies should refrain from making dividends, may not solve the problem. The risk is that payments will only be postponed for a long time and will build up capital in the company. I get morally upset, just like Ulla Andersson. But I think it was important that we had the short-term lay-off rules in place.
i-0cf68d602531886b-226	Madam President, I would like I share that view. Short-term lay-off support has been good and necessary. We're gonna save jobs. But it also requires corporate owners to respect the fact that it is the taxpayers' money they use. It is morally totally reprehensible to receive taxpayers' money first and to decide shortly thereafter to make a dividend and to beat it with an extra dividend, so to speak. It's morally reprehensible. I doubt that Sandvik and Volvo were in a difficult economic crisis, but we can say that. In that case, they should rebuild their cash register and keep the money in the company so that they can cope with a new crisis. The taxpayer cannot be supposed to come in again, so to speak. It is therefore important to postpone dividends, so that companies can build up their finances and so that taxpayers do not come in again. That is one reason why I believe that dividends should be postponed. The other is moral. Taxpayers have volunteered to save jobs and businesses. Then the companies respond with huge dividends to the shareholders. It's not respectful in any part. Then we can discuss this. Sure, if you postpone dividends, they'll come later. Yes, it will be. But it is also reasonable for these companies, when the crisis is over and the economy has stabilised, to start paying back the aid they have received in the form of, for example, increased corporate tax and increased capital tax. But if they did not have the subsidies, they would have to be paid back. There must be systematic monitoring and evaluation, and it must be a recovery order for those companies which would not actually have received the aid and had not applied for it.
i-0cf68d602531886b-232	Madam President, I would like I think that some of these companies believed that the crisis would get deeper. Fortunately, it was not for Swedish industry. Swedish industry has managed the crisis relatively well. I believe that this played a role in the actions of many companies. But I am very provoked by these dividends. I really am, and I think it's something to think about in the future. Had we had more time and had there been rules in place when we entered the crisis, the support could of course be more accurate and went more narrowly to companies that had more need of them. We have not been able to work in this crisis, but there have been broad support that has had to get there quickly. In the long run, I really believe that this has benefited Swedish wage earners, especially because we have been able to sustain employment and also the economy in society. Then I do not think that Ulla Andersson's proposal solves the problem, but it is a bigger problem that is more about being able to go into depth with regard to each individual company. I hope that the Swedish Agency for Growth can make more of that product, but we also know that it is not simply to get the support out on time. Thank you very much for the question. I believe that we must continue to keep the debate on this alive, because it must not be the case that companies see the state as their insurance company, which should always bring in money when things are going badly. It is primarily the responsibility of the owners.
i-0cf68d602531886b-237	Madam President, I would like We have stood up for people to remain connected to their workplace and to their job," said Åsa Westlund in the line-up just now. But that doesn't apply to everyone. This does not apply to those who have fixed-term contracts. Instead, the government Åsa Westlund represents has introduced a rule that says that the companies need to lay off enough people who have that type of employment to be able to get support, so that the others at the workplace can maintain their connection to the same. This goes directly against international crisis experience. This goes against the OECD's assessment of the functioning of the lay-off systems following the financial crisis. It was noted that if temporary workers are not included, they are hit even harder in the crisis. What were countries like France, Austria, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg doing after the financial crisis? Well, they chose to include the temporary employees in their lay-off systems, because they saw how they had been affected. This was also the conclusion when the parties investigated a Swedish lay-off system. That was the conclusions of the 2012 investigation. That was the conclusions of the legislation in 2013. Yet, in the run-up to the crisis this spring, the government chose to introduce this rule, which does not support the work that has been done in the past on how support should work in a crisis. As a result, 90 000 companies have been asked this question by the Swedish Agency for Growth. Have you laid off enough time-limited employees during this crisis? It is a basic requirement for you to receive lay-off support for your permanent employees. So there is a small valve for exceptions for what is described as mission critical personnel. However, this leads to a long trial, and it is difficult to know who is critical in this situation. So the question is: Why is this requirement so important?
i-0cf68d602531886b-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the question! The short-term lay-offs are intended for companies to retain critical personnel and be able to start up quickly when the situation changes. There is no requirement, which you can easily get the impression of when listening to Jakob Forssmed, for the employer to terminate all staff s unless they are permanent employees. I know that Jakob Forssmed knows that this is not the case, but it is easy to get that impression, and I think it is important not to scare companies from seeking this support by sounding as if that were the case. Even in this crisis, however, there are companies that are not doing badly and that are actually looking for labour. Therefore, it is also important to see that there are available resources for the jobs that are still emerging and that you can change jobs. This is not a citizen's salary, it is actually short-term leave aid. That said, it has been a year since the pandemic struck. We've decided on a lot of support. They have been very generally designed, and we have gradually had to make adjustments in order for them to be accurate and to benefit from them that most need them. That work is not over. Both the Finance Committee and the Government continue to monitor developments closely and evaluate the support in order, if necessary, to make adjustments to make them as accurate as possible. But sometimes simple solutions to one problem also create other major problems at another end, so the problems that arise are not always as easy to solve as it may sound.
i-0cf68d602531886b-246	Madam President, I would like It seems that there are some arguments in the background that are not forthcoming, because the arguments presented here do not agree with what has been said. Would all the countries in Europe that have drawn conclusions from their short-term lay-off systems then be wrong? Would that be wrong? Åsa Westlund talks about the closure aid in her speech. Is it reasonable for companies that may be shut down by the Pandemic Act to be referred to this and also to meet the basic requirement to do what one can to reduce their labour costs? Is it a reasonable consequence of the Pandemic Act that you should lay off your temporary employees if you cannot specifically justify that these people are operating critical? The very clear division that has become with this rule is, of course, for a normal economic situation and not for a crisis. The Institute of Economics has specifically pointed out to the government that this is not a good and appropriate order. Is there any other argument than that it is important to free up resources in the form of unemployed to those companies that are doing well in the crisis? The rhetoric in general says that it is extremely important that people remain connected to their workplace. Should it not apply to temporary, probationary or temporary workers, but should go into unemployment in order to be available to companies in need of labour? That argument is totally unreasonably weak, and I think Åsa Westlund understands that.
i-0cf68d602531886b-251	Madam President, I would like Now again, it sounded as if there was a requirement to be a permanent employee in order to be on short-term leave. So this is not the case, but an overall assessment is made of this. I think that the government has nevertheless done a great deal to sustain employment during the crisis and that everyone has benefited. Compared to what it looked like when Jakob Forssmed's party was in charge during the financial crisis, there is still a huge difference in how we have managed to keep unemployment down and keep up employment and also secure the welfare of our country. Having said that, I think we should continue to look at this issue and bump and wet and see if we can design a more accurate support that also means that the weakest in the labour market have an opportunity to keep their job or come back as quickly as possible.
i-0cf68d602531886b-254	Madam President, I would like Now it is almost a year since the spread of infection took off properly in Sweden, and what year it has been. This year, over 11,500 people have died in covid-19. They're missing from someone. It's someone's mother, someone's father, someone's child, someone's relative, someone's friend. 11,500 people, Madam President. It's nothing but a failure. This year the health care, care and school staff have struggled hard to maintain their activities and to help their children in school, even though they are available at a distance. In health care, they have worked under severe pressure. This has been a year like nothing else. This has been a year when high school students who in some way might have the best time in their lives have not been allowed to meet their classmates. Many have lost hope of the future, though they are only 17 years old. This is a year when a lot of people have been out of work. Despite great efforts, many have lost their job, and many are concerned: When can I get back to work? When can I get my own paycheck to live on? Maybe they came to Sweden just a few years ago and had just got into the restaurant business and got an extra job. Or you have worked for a lot of years, maybe 20 to 30 years, in a business but still had to leave the job. This is also a year, Madam President, which has been incredibly tough for many companies in Sweden. While some companies have gone brilliantly throughout the crisis, many have had a hugely tough time. And all the companies that had a tough time in the spring due to a sharp drop in demand – partly due to restrictions – have gotten even tougher in recent months when the spread of infection has taken off again. For these companies and their employees, there is still much to be done to continue to save jobs. Madam President, I would like During the spring, and I also said it many times, I thought that we here, the parliament and government together, worked quickly to get crisis support in place. We did a good job. The opposition was pressing. We Moderates made concrete proposals. It was an interaction that I thought worked well, and it was fast. Then something happened. It was as if the government and support parties somehow started to go idle, slowed down and did not do what was needed. An extra gear was not put in. On the contrary, the gear was turned down. I've been thinking a lot about what it might be, and I see two reasons. One is what Jakob Forssmed mentioned in his speech, namely that a second wave was simply not seen coming. The Prime Minister said not so long ago that there was no one this summer who could see a second wave coming, even though we were many who actually talked about it. If you didn't see a second wave coming I can understand that you didn't prepare enough, that you didn't use summer to improve the support and make them more accurate and that in the beginning of autumn you didn't develop a new pandemic team that could be used so fast, if, a second wave would hit Sweden. None of us wanted the development that we have seen in recent months, but as a government we have to prepare for the worst. Another reason I can imagine is that you are still quite satisfied. When I hear the Minister for Finance or Åsa Westlund mention these 374 billions today, I also get the feeling that there is a satisfaction. Let me just say: this is a historic crisis. That is why we are making historic efforts. Of the EUR 374 billion, if I may just add one parenthesis, it is also important to remember that EUR 105 billion was therefore budget spending for this year. Some of that money went to the Institute for Human Rights and other things. It's not all about corona support. But it's big bets, and it's supposed to be in this kind of crisis to save jobs. The problem is that so many of the decisions we have made here do not reach the companies that most need it. Madam President, I would like The Moderates saw a second wave coming. I can stay with it. We wrote about it in our budget, and we are certainly not satisfied. That is why, every day since this crisis began, we have worked hard, day and night, to do everything we can to ensure that as many jobs as possible are saved. That is why, before the summer, we gathered the whole Parliament on the basis of support for individual traders. We saw that they had fallen between the chairs. It is about Sweden's most common company form where many women are present. They did not receive the support that could be expected. We gathered the Riksdag in June, but it took until November before the decision from the government came. The budget that we are going to decide on today means an extension and a strengthening of turnover aid and conversion aid. That's very good. But I would have wished--I don't want to be whiny--that this could have happened faster. I see a problem for these entrepreneurs with whom I think we are all in contact. They have anxiety, they cry and they feel very bad. They hear a press conference or read at TT that money is coming soon. And the Minister of Finance says, "Hold on!" Then it will be months before the decision comes, and then it will be even more months before the money is paid out. It can make a difference for these entrepreneurs. In fact, I think the government is betraying them in this process. Madam President, I would like Today we are going to decide on two additional amending budgets. We support the proposals in both FIU40 and FIU42. These are two important budgets where we strengthen vaccination and detection, and we reinforce different types of aid. I would like to highlight three points in particular. Firstly, it is a question of once again, as Ulla Andersson mentioned, together we can now reduce interest costs. It was completely incomprehensible to me when the government proposal landed here in Parliament and it was shown that nothing had been learned from the spring. We agreed to lower the interest rate for the most affected. Those who were affected then are the ones who have it even tougher now. Then the state should not charge them too much interest. I am pleased that we brought the whole committee with us on this. Secondly, we are talking about the extension of aid for conversion and the increase in the level of aid. It's incredibly important. We called the Committee on Finance during the Christmas holidays to correct problems and to increase these subsidies. I'm glad it's coming in. Thirdly, there is finally a proposal for money and support for those partnerships and limited companies that are stuck in the middle. Now someone may wonder if you just want to fatten money on companies. No, this is about having accurate support for those entrepreneurs who have been most affected by the crisis. I do not share the view of the chairman of the Committee on Finance. In such a case, the state must, when a virus comes, act a little like an insurance company and as a support. This crisis is not, in essence, due to the fact that someone has made a mistake. It is not financial market imbalances and it is not general structural reform needs that are causing this, but a pandemic. Then the state must do its thing. These are entrepreneurs who for decades have paid taxes and now expect them to receive support and the social contract to work. Madam President, I would like I want to give you what one of the entrepreneurs I've been in contact with has written. It's about Tea that I have both had email contact with and talked to on the phone. I don't know her, but I think what she writes well describes how many have it. It's straight up and down. She writes: My parents started with a restaurant in Vadstena. After more than 30 years of fighting, we now have two hotels in Stockholm that my sister and I run. This year has meant that the whole family is working around the clock to save everything my parents have fought for. After all, when even private assets lie as security, there is no other way out than blood, sweat and tears. We can't take it anymore, but we don't have a choice. This is how many people put it. Some people take a lot harder. But a lot of people have actually mortgaged houses and homes so that they can keep their employees and keep their businesses so that these jobs will remain when it finally turns around. Madam President, I would like Finally, we are doing this to save jobs and to save life's work. We do this because we know that if there is something that we will live with for many years to come, it is far too high unemployment. Sweden entered this crisis with high unemployment, higher than it is in the vast majority of EU countries. The problem is that during this crisis Swedish unemployment has also developed worse than the unemployment rate in most other EU countries. We need to keep saving jobs. We will work day and night until this is over to ensure that as many companies and as many employees as possible get the help they need faster and more accurate, so that the jobs remain even after the crisis.
i-0cf68d602531886b-280	Madam President, I would like Many entrepreneurs are having a tough time in this crisis. That is also why we are investing so many billions in trying to support them through the crisis, because we know that Sweden must have many viable companies that draw money into welfare but also employ many people and provide them with livelihoods. The fact that companies affected by covid-19 will receive the support and help they need is obvious to me and to Elisabeth Svantesson. But for me it is also obvious that a person who suffers from unemployment due to covid-19 should receive support and help for a new job but also receive support and help during the time it takes to get a new job. It's not like that for the Moderates. With your budget, those affected by unemployment would have been much tougher at the moment. In what way, Elisabeth Svantesson, are the jobs increased by those affected by unemployment also suffering directly from poverty? Why does your solidarity not extend to employees too?
i-0cf68d602531886b-283	Madam President, I would like As I myself have been involved in this, I would just like to draw the attention of Madam President to the fact that this issue is outside the scope of the matter. But I'd be happy to answer the question. This case is not about unemployment funds for individuals, it is about entrepreneurs. And that's where we're really doing it. We will therefore vote in favour of the committee's proposals in these two reports. I understand that it will be difficult for Åsa Westlund in this situation when so many companies go on their knees and when so many employees are worried about their jobs. It is no secret that Åsa Westlund and I have different views on exactly where the a-cassage levels should be. But here and now I'm working hard to make fewer people unemployed. That's where my focus lies, and that's where the Moderates focus. I can only say that when we put forward proposals for this to go faster – the processing times should be shorter – so that we can save more jobs, the Social Democrats say no to that in committee. I will do everything I can to save more jobs so that fewer people will be unemployed and that the unemployment fund will of course be reasonable. However, these two budget cases involving SEK 50 billion are not about unemployment funds for individuals.
i-0cf68d602531886b-286	Madam President, I would like We are talking here about jobs and entrepreneurship, and Elisabeth Svantesson also talked a lot about unemployment. Then it is reasonable that the Moderates can respond to how their entire policy leads to more at work. So it was really a question on today's subject that I asked. My question, of course, remains: how do jobs become more moderate when you lower the unemployment fund for wage earners? Why does solidarity not also extend to wage earners and not just to entrepreneurs? The Moderates would like us to pay out the money as soon as possible. So do I. But I want to do it with control. I think it is responsibility when it comes to taxpayers' money. With the way that the Moderates propose, that we first pay out money and then review whether they have come to the right place, we are really opening up the locks to criminals. I'm not prepared to do that. In fact, I hope that Elisabeth Svantesson is not prepared to do so either. But you are also welcome to answer that question, Elisabeth Svantesson.
i-0cf68d602531886b-289	Madam President, I would like I am very happy to answer all the questions that Åsa Westlund has. As I said, as far as the unemployment fund is concerned, it is no secret that we have different views on the levels in it. We also know that levels play a role. I'm going to do everything I can to keep fewer people out of work. And, Åsa Westlund, I will do everything I can to ensure that those who now become unemployed do not passivate. It is during the time of the Social Democrats, in a boom, that the long-term unemployed grew more. It is during the time of the Social Democrats in the government that new jobs are becoming fewer and efforts are not being made for those who are unemployed. Here is our focus, and it will continue to be so. Then I fully share Åsa Westlund's view that we should frame everyone who deceives and deceives the system. We're supposed to be rock hard. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the government did not from the outset, like the Danish Government, both move forward with rapid support and tighten the penalties for those who deceive this system. So you can do both things at the same time. In relation to many other countries, therefore, Sweden does not spend more but less money on saving jobs. It's a fact, and I think there's another way to go.
i-0cf68d602531886b-293	Madam President, I would like We are still, a year later, in a pandemic. It is a pandemic that sometimes feels difficult to see the end of, not least financially. But it also feels difficult because so many people have somehow been affected. You've been sick. One has lost someone who is either close to or a little more in the periphery. However, we are beginning, in fact, to see a hope. The vaccinations have begun, and this will have an end. It takes time, but it will be able to be handled. The Center Party is taking on the financial responsibility of this pandemic. In the amending budgets we are now seeing, there are resources allocated not only to health care but also to testing and vaccination. It is incredibly important that we now ensure that municipalities and regions can continue to feel confident that there will be financial support for what is needed. They should be able to feel confident that there is money – that it is not the lack. Everyone who works and toils in health care should know that it is not the resources that will be the limit. This will be guaranteed by the Center Party. The Center Party also takes a major responsibility for the restrictions imposed by the government. We are not involved in the restrictions, but we are involved in the financial cleaning up of the consequences of the restrictions. When the government should use the Pandemic Act but instead use the Alcohol Act, it means using a blunt tool that is used to manage alcohol use rather than spread. We will then see to it that business support is strengthened. We maximise them on the basis of the existing EU rules and ensure that we get things in place. We allocate money to the Swedish Agency for Growth so that they can hire more people, borrow staff and make major changes. We are also ensuring that more people are covered by the aid. In the amending budgets which are now on the table, for example, trading companies are also covered by the conversion aid that has existed in the past. That is good; all companies should be able to benefit from the subsidies. It is also important to point out that the longer we go in this crisis, the more important it is that we get good, heavy, important and strong support for companies. Many people have eaten an incredible amount of their margins. I met an entrepreneur on Friday who had to sell his summer house in order to pay another month's salary. That's why it's incredibly important that the money now comes out. In the Center Party, we have done everything we can on the economic side to ensure that it becomes a fact, and now the government must assume its responsibilities. You have to lead your authority and make sure that this goes faster. It must not be the case that government bureaucracy lowers Swedish companies. The Minister for Industry and Finance has a great responsibility to actually lead these resources on the right track. We in the Center Party take our responsibility and ensure that the resources are in place, and now the government must assume its responsibilities and ensure that they are paid out. This is a tough time. It is a tough time for many companies, but you also see the opportunities. If the government can change, use the Pandemic Act – and shut down operations, if it needs to do so – but above all focus on the spread of infection, we will have increased justice. We will then have greater opportunities and greater security for companies to know what is actually going on. To do as the government has done, that is to say, with only a few hours in advance, to say that the restrictions are being extended, creating uncertainty and insecurity for companies. This means that they cannot know how to plan the schedule, what staff to take in and, for example, how many bookings a restaurant can take. This is an untenable situation. I feel that there is an incomprehension on the part of the government about the situation of companies. I think it would be good if the Minister for Economic Affairs made more visits out in hotels and in the restaurant business, to find out what it really is and what businesses need. What they need right now is to have the aid paid out that they have been guaranteed. People are out there with millions that they've had to take from the margins they had. They have had to take them from their own savings and, in fact, sometimes by borrowing or selling their own properties. That's completely unreasonable. We need to do everything we can to save companies and ensure that they survive – so that they remain. We need that if we are to go to a restaurant, visit a hotel, have a hospitality and everything else. Now the government needs to act. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal concerning the supplementary amending budgets and the rejection of the motions.
i-0cf68d602531886b-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Rickard Nordin! I also thank you for the efforts to take Sweden through the crisis that the government is making together with the Centre Party and the Liberals. However, there is much else to be desired, not least in terms of speed. It is important to be early on that when the problems arise and make sure to fix them so that this twitchiness and unpredictability – the extractor – does not increase. We see that it creates a desperation among companies and employees. Companies are in worse condition, and they need these subsidies in place. I think that there are reasons for the January parties to really be self-critical about how they have handled the subsidies from summer onwards. I also note that in the amending budgets we are about to decide on, there is an advance in the reduction of the social security contribution for young people. In connection with the presentation of this proposal last autumn, I asked Rickard Nordin in Parliament why it is not doing the reduction that one feels is urgent and effective – although I have a different view on the matter. Why is it not done immediately and with retroactiveness, as it is possible to do with employers' contributions? Then Rickard Nordin explained to me that it is possible to think so in opposition but that anyone who is serious cannot do so until 1 April. However, it is now being introduced from 1 January. The question is therefore: What has happened to the seriosity between autumn and now, Rickard Nordin?
i-0cf68d602531886b-308	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Jakob Forssmed! I think we share a great deal of opinion. I think we share the view that we need to deal with insecurity, unpredictability and twitchiness, and we both have criticism of how the government has handled its restrictions – not least when it comes to the alcohol freeze. It is incredibly important that the support is now also in place. We fully agree on this, and I have also criticised the Government for its prudence on a number of points. When it comes to the forwarding of the employers' contribution for young people, it is welcome. I have noted in this House that some people have serious problems with this; not least the Swedish Democrats have been strongly questioning why this should be done. I find this strange given that it is a way of getting money out to companies that are in crisis, not least in the hotel and restaurant business where many young people work. The reason why it is now possible to do this is that there are new news from the Ministry of Finance. Jakob Forssmed should therefore rather ask the Social Democrats and Magdalena Andersson why this can be done all of a sudden. I trust that the officials at the Ministry of Finance will provide wise, reasonable and serious information. It is also the information I have received in the past that has now changed, not least because we are now in a different position. Then you have been able to speed up the processes. I welcome this. I think it is a good thing that we can do this and that we can get more than 1 billion to these companies, which are now in crisis. This means that they can keep employees a little longer, that they get a little more margins and that they hopefully make it a little longer – and maybe also survive until this crisis has ebbed out. It would be welcome, and I welcome the fact that we can get these resources out faster. That's good.
i-0cf68d602531886b-313	Madam President, I would like It's good that Rickard Nordin criticizes the government for being slow. The difference between me and Rickard Nordin is that it is Rickard Nordin who keeps the government under his arms; I do not. Another difference between me and Rickard Nordin is that it is Rickard Nordin who is negotiating with the government and with the Social Democrats, who apparently came up with information about young people's employer contributions that Rickard Nordin allowed himself to be satisfied with but who did not agree. My picture, which I also outlined last autumn, is that employers' contributions can be reduced retroactively. It was done as late as last spring by Rickard Nordin's Party Center Party together with the government; then it was decided to reduce the employer's contribution with retroactiveness. Now this is coming back into place. It's a good thing it's in place. It would have been even better – from Rickard Nordin's perspective, I suppose – if this reform had been in place even earlier in this crisis. I think we should invest in other subsidies. I think that support should be given to anyone who hires a person who has been unemployed. This would be combined with a reduction in employers' contributions for the vulnerable sectors in this crisis – those in close proximity to customers, such as restaurants, hotels, shops and gyms, regardless of age. I agree with Rickard Nordin that this proposal is better than nothing. It is better because a lot of the people who work in these industries are also young. In this way, this has some of the effects that Rickard Nordin describes. However, I am a little concerned that last autumn it was impossible but now it is possible. In this way, the reform has lost months where it could have made a difference to the margin. It is, as I said, Rickard Nordin who is negotiating, and he will of course have to think about how to deal with this in the future.
i-0cf68d602531886b-320	Madam President, I would like The best thing would have been if Jakob Forssmed himself had not stopped the proposal to reduce the employer's contribution for people who are going to get a job and who are far from the labour market that was already on Parliament's table this spring. This was in principle the proposal that Jakob Forssmed himself has now put forward. It would have been good to have this in place in the midst of a burning crisis. However, it was delayed, and also abolished, because Jakob Forssmed voted it down in the Riksdag. If it had been in place, we would have gone into the crisis in a completely different way. Then we would not have had to stand here and discuss the reduction of employers' contributions for young people, because then we would have had a better system in place. But Jakob Forssmed himself voted down. When it comes to meekness and delays, I think it is the Christian Democrats who are to blame for the fact that we have not had things in place before in this case.
i-0cf68d602531886b-323	Madam President, I would like First of all, it can be noted that the money that would have gone to lower social security contributions last year went to care for the elderly and health care – it was certainly very good at the stage of the crisis. But that is not what I was going to mention, but I was going to take up the support that exists. I share Rickard Nordin's view that it is self-evident that entrepreneurs who have a very tough financial situation, and who may have borrowed their home, should have support. That is also why we have worked in various ways to get such support in place. What I'm wondering is how Rickard Nordin views the ohemula dividends that Sandvik and Volvo have decided on. These are multinational companies seeking contributions from taxpayers – from the assistant nurse, the poor pensioner and the taxi driver – and then sending the money to the shareholders. Volvo received 1 billion in lay-off support, or grants, and then distributed 30 billion. Sandvik received 300 million in grants and distributed 8 billion. It is said – and this is what the regulatory framework looks like – that companies should have serious financial difficulties. If these companies have not had serious financial difficulties, which at present is quite difficult to believe they had, should they not have to pay back the money? And if they've made a misjudgement, shouldn't they themselves come to that conclusion? Is Rickard Nordin going to ensure that the systematic follow-up and evaluations needed by these support measures are in place? And will Rickard Nordin make sure that those who have received these subsidies but would not have received them actually become repayable and possibly also punished for this?
i-YcDDAJ3uznzMSUptKMa4DS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for the question. We can see that, last spring, we had a united Committee on Finance where we agreed to limit the possibility of making a profit if we had taken part in the aid and to do so for a certain period of time. These companies have behaved according to the regulations, and then it will be difficult, as Ulla Andersson wants, to somehow retroactively change the legislation and punish them for this. It seems very difficult to understand, and it would also be legally insecure. There is every reason to review how these crisis regulations and support have worked once we are through this. There is a lot that we need to think about, not least how slow and tough it can be to change IT systems in order to get payments to those companies that are actually crisising and who have incredibly big problems. I'm a little worried that Ulla Andersson chooses to focus on the companies that are actually doing well. It is the companies that are having a tough time that we really should focus on. They are the ones who are having a hard time and we should help as much as we can. It is not Volvo, Sandvik and other industrial companies that are our main concerns. Our main concern is to ensure that we get as many companies as possible to survive, and then it's really great that things are going well for some companies. It was certainly the case that there were companies which did not need these subsidies afterwards but which needed them this spring. We did not know then where the economy would go. Had that been the case, I also think that Ulla Andersson had had completely different entrances to things already this spring. However, we had a united Committee on Finance where we agreed that we should have tightened up rules precisely with regard to dividends and other things. That legislation was then put in place. To change it afterwards would be highly legal insecure and harmful to the economy.
i-0cf68d602531886b-332	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin says that you do everything you can to save companies, but you raised the interest on tax deferrals sharply – I think it rhymes a little bit. It was therefore a good thing that, among others, the Moderates and the Left Party took the initiative to change the level of interest rates in tax deferrals. In fact, it was the Left Party that took the initiative to stop the dividends. It wasn't the Center Party, the government or the Liberals, it was the Left Party. We got the committee with us, and that was good in itself. We have not proposed any retroactive legislation. What we are discussing now is that you want to establish that these companies will be able to make dividends after six months. The Left Party proposes a longer period of time – one year. One should build the economy of the company so that one can cope with a possible crisis, and one should also do so because it is morally right. You do not ask a nurse, a poor pensioner, a taxi driver or a caretaker to go in and save you with tax money and then send the money to the shareholders. It's as morally reprehensible as it can only be, I think. If Volvo and Sandvik have such large sums of money in their treasury, they did not need this support. After all, it is stated in the regulations that one should have great financial difficulties. If they misjudged when they searched, they could pay the money back on their own. I also believe that the government must use resources to ensure that this has been done properly. We cannot deal with taxpayers' money like this. People have struggled hard to earn their wages – their income – and then paid taxes. The tax is to go to medical care and to save jobs, not to dividends. My question remains, and I do not think I got an answer to it: does Rickard Nordin intend to ensure that there will be resources to follow up that these subsidies actually go to what they were intended for and not to dividends?
i-0cf68d602531886b-338	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for your constructive work in the Committee on Finance! As far as tax deferrals are concerned, we are in fact in agreement in committee, as can be seen in today's Minutes. It is good that we can find things that have gone wrong and that we can adjust. I think that's wise. It is wise policy to do things in common where we all have an interest, just as we did in the spring in terms of dividends. When it comes to whether dividends are wrong or not and have not been made in accordance with the applicable regulations, it is not something that we in Parliament act as a court over, but it is handled by our authorities that make assessments of all companies, both the local hairdresser and Sandvik and Volvo. They are the ones who maintain the rules. If they see that something is strange or wrong and has been wrongly paid out, it is also they who ensure that it is handled by the respective authorities, such as the police and ultimately also the courts. This is not something that we in the Swedish Parliament should do. However, I fully agree with Ulla Andersson that we should evaluate the systems. Once we get through this, there is probably quite a lot that we should review and evaluate, both what has gone well and what has gone less well, so that we stand strengthened in the face of the next crisis. I have no problem with standing in the Swedish parliament and saying that.
i-0cf68d602531886b-341	Madam President, I would like I don't doubt the Center Party in any way. I know that the Center Party is a party that fights for companies and wants to save jobs. There I completely share Rickard Nordin's picture. A long time of the speech was devoted to criticising the government and its meekness. I think that sounds a little strange for a number of reasons, because the Center Party is the party which, together with the Liberals, holds the government under its arms. But it's not just that. The Center Party is also the party that has a deep budget cooperation with the government and also a 73-point programme that covers large parts of Swedish politics and politics. That's why I'm thinking a little bit about this with the tempo and faster payouts. When I hear Centre Party critics criticise the government so strongly, I naturally wonder why you are not doing anything about it. After all, you sit at the tables and discuss with the government the pace of payments. You have discussions and negotiations on the support that will come into place, and I am often surprised that it takes so long. Just a few weeks ago, the Moderates put forward a committee initiative in the Committee on Finance, which included what I was talking about earlier, Madam President, that it should be quicker to get the money paid out, while the penalties should really be tightened up for those who deliberately cheat and deceive taxpayers. This has been done in other countries. Then the money will come more quickly to businesses, because most entrepreneurs are honest. And the money must come out quickly if the jobs are to be saved. My question to Rickard Nordin is: why does the Center Party not support the committee initiative that the Moderates have put on the table of the Finance Committee?
i-0cf68d602531886b-346	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that we share the ambitions and also share the criticism of the government that subsidies do not come out. This makes us stronger together, and hopefully we can push Ibrahim Baylan and Magdalena Andersson in front of us. It is correct that the Center Party supports the government in the form of budget cooperation and in the form of a 73-point programme. This does not mean that we are behind everything that the government does, because there are issues that lie outside our cooperation, such as management and governance in our authorities. That is the big problem at the moment. We have done everything in our economic power. We are adding 450 million to this amending budget to the Swedish Agency for Growth so that they can hire more staff, speed things up and make their systems work faster. It's obviously not enough. This is not a money problem that the Center Party can solve. This is a management issue that ultimately needs to be dealt with by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Director General of the Swedish Agency for Growth. They need to understand what the situation is. That is also why I criticise them in this House. They have received their resources, they can borrow staff and take a number of different measures. From what I have heard, the Swedish Agency for Growth says that the economic problem no longer exists, but that it is a management issue. We intend to continue to criticise the government for this until the money is paid out. I think there were several interesting points in the committee initiative. However, it does not help just to say that things should happen more quickly in order for it to actually do so. There is an investigation from Stefan Strömberg, who says that it is a problem if you pay out in the way Elisabeth Svantesson proposes. I am also afraid that we would then have another debate. For my part, this is about the money to be decided on today coming out, not the way it is done. When it comes to tightening the penalties, it is above all a question of having a criminal offence that plays with them. I think that is wise, but it is a matter for the Committee on Justice rather than for the Committee on Finance.
i-0cf68d602531886b-354	Madam President, I would like I can only inform Rickard Nordin that in May June it was the government that tightened up the requirements, which means that it is now taking longer to get the money paid out. I think that the Centre Party can take this along with the discussions at the round table that you might be sitting around discussing. So it can be influenced. I totally agree that we should fight against cheating. But now we see that not only does it take time for payments after decisions, but it also takes time before the government and you talk about what support is to come. It'll be six months, sometimes more, before you get the money. In the worst case, you have already ended up with the bailiff, and then you can not receive any support. This is upsetting to me, and I believe that something can be done about it. I see very clearly that you can both speed up and tighten penalties and do it together. It's actually a philosophy that you can have to save jobs. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to raise an issue that we have not actually discussed at all, although it is included in the budget proposal, and that is support if the government shuts down completely. There is money set aside for it now – very good. For us Moderates, it goes without saying that if the government has to completely shut down businesses, companies must be reimbursed for all their costs in full, including wage costs. Such a proposal is not available now. I just want to hear Rickard Nordin's position on the question and when we can expect to see such a proposal, if we can see such a proposal. It is, of course, a security for those who may be affected if the spread of the disease is not curbed and is taking off again. But let us hope that we do not have to use pandemic legislation in this way.
i-0cf68d602531886b-358	Madam President, I would like I share Elisabeth Svantesson's outrage that it takes too long to pay out the money. I also think that was very clear in my speech. However, when I leave the negotiating table and can communicate that we have agreed on things, I hand over the responsibility to the Ministry of Finance and the officials there and also to the Swedish Parliament to deal with the proposals as quickly as we have the opportunity to do so. Then I also leave my responsibility for the process, for responsibility then lands at the Ministry of Finance. Elisabeth Svantesson's question should rather be addressed to the Social Democrats and Magdalena Andersson about why it has taken so long and why the process does not go faster. As far as the Pandemic Act is concerned, we have agreed that we should have full coverage of the fixed costs, precisely in accordance with the possibilities provided for in the EU acquis. It is also possible to use short-term lay-off and other aid that may be in place for those who are not covered by everything else. I'm always willing to look at how we can do more and how we can do differently. The Center Party does not rule out any action in the future. When there are such negotiated ones, they will also be communicated.
i-0cf68d602531886b-362	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I think there are many who feel tired of the Corona crisis and Corona. Many people long to be seen as normal, to be able to go to the association they are in and to be able to be a part of a social context. There are many who during this time have isolated themselves and are waiting for it to be as usual, that the normal should come back. There are also many who feel grief after losing a loved one and who feel that life is not as it was before. Many people work in health care that struggle every day for the care to work and who make heroic efforts to make people feel safe and receive the care that they are entitled to. Many in the world of school are doing their utmost to ensure that children and young people learn what they are supposed to learn despite distance learning. There are many who struggle at the core of welfare every day to ensure that society works. Madam President, I would like Unemployment is a poison. And this crisis is not like any economic crisis. It is not a crisis that, like other crises, has begun with the fact that the real estate market has been overvalued or that some financiers on a stock exchange somewhere in the world have speculated too much. This is not a crisis where Swedish industry is no longer competitive with South Korean or other Asian competitors. This is a health crisis that became an economic crisis. The arrival of the Corona virus this spring could be likened to the arrival of aliens on Earth. All operations were literally shut down. Trade from China closed down. All industry and other activities in Italy closed down. Large parts of Europe were completely shut down. I live in Skåne myself, just a train trip from Copenhagen, and for several months Denmark was more or less closed down. Of course, this has economic consequences. Unemployment is a poison. The fact that people lose their jobs and lose their footing or stay outside for a long time and do not get in and get stuck in long-term dependency on benefits is a poison for a society. Madam President, I would like I think that this crisis has clearly demonstrated the link between companies that employ people in their businesses and strengthen welfare. As unemployment is now rising and approaching too high levels, it is not because health care, school, preschool or police leave employees, quite the contrary. This is because companies are no longer able to keep their employees. This hits welfare directly because tax revenues are falling. The relationship between entrepreneurs, jobs and welfare has never been clearer than during this crisis. Let me take this opportunity to say that I am incredibly impressed by the many Swedish entrepreneurs, large and small, who have shown an impressive ability to change in this crisis. In a situation where all customers disappear and you cannot do business as usual, they have changed to keep the company and their employees. I'm deeply impressed by that. Madam President, I would like The restrictions are 2021 many times tougher than they were in March – April 2020. For restaurants, they are definitely tougher, and even for many other businesses the restrictions are tougher, which means that many drivers have it brutally tough. They therefore expect and demand the support and assistance of society and politics. In the political debate there are those who paint a contradiction between entrepreneurs and taxpayers. Nothing could be more wrong. Entrepreneurs are also taxpayers. Both small and large entrepreneurs pay a lot of tax in order to also benefit from state support in the event of a crisis. The Swedish model is based, among other things, on the fact that we collect taxes from those who work and entrepreneurs who hire in order for us all to be able to take part in society's support in different ways. Those who paint this contradiction create a gap and want to signal that there is a difference between taxpayers and entrepreneurs. That's wrong. Entrepreneurs are also taxpayers. If we are to afford our welfare, companies must survive and be able to afford and employ. Madam President, I would like Many of the measures that the Riksdag has decided and will decide on today are important for Sweden to be able to cope with the crisis, keep society together and avoid mass unemployment. Not all companies and jobs can be saved, but we will do everything we can to avoid hundreds of thousands of bankruptcies and mass unemployment in Sweden. Then the measures now on the table and faster efforts by the authorities are needed for the money to be paid out. We in the Riksdag will cooperate and do our best to enable Sweden to lift itself out of this crisis. And once we are through the crisis, I am sure we will look back and see that we kept the good and good in our society where we clearly see that entrepreneurs who employ also build our common welfare.
i-PBihNaBgxpmEtxedkkRTmP	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with exercise requests from general exercise time. This is an area where there's plenty of work to do. Alarm reports continue to stream in. It is about assistance compensation that is withdrawn, excessive repayments, municipal backlogs and more. It is an emergency that we must deal with. Today, disabled people do not have self-determination over their lives. A clear change of attitude is required where disabled people are seen as individuals and where conditions are created instead of limitations. One person's disability does not change because he chooses to move from one municipality to another. Today, many do not dare to take that step out of fear of losing their assistance. It's nothing but a form of municipal arrest. This is a clear example of the fact that the place of residence plays far too much of a role. But where you live in the country should not determine what help you get. It is clear to me and to the rest of society that the cuts in assistance have escalated following the government's regulation letter to Försäkringskassan 2016. The signals sent by this letter of regulation have had devastating consequences, and people with disabilities have, despite clear needs, been forced to live without assistance. This has led to isolation and thus not only municipal arrest but also house arrest. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a dozen reservations. Among other things, it is about increased accessibility. It is also a question of all basic needs being assistance-based in their entirety. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority on this issue. Another important issue for us is the need for a review of the system of assistance reimbursement during hospitalisation. Often it is an unreasonable workload to put on an already under pressure hospital staff, who do not have the time to provide the necessary support. Once again, the actual need is not met. Of course we are in favour of all our reservations, but I call for the approval of reservation 10, which is precisely a review of this system. In reservation 10, we also make it clear that under no circumstances will we support the two-year trials coming into force again before a new system has been introduced. That is our clear promise. Madam President, I would like Freedom and self-determination are something many of us take for granted. In our free time, we can do what we have in mind, and few of us would accept a lot of limitations. However, for people with disabilities there are a number of restrictions. This applies, for example, to access facilities for leisure activities and sports activities and travel restrictions in the form of not being able to travel from work to leisure or sports activities, but only from work to home. In addition, there is a limited number of trips. Large, bulky sports aids are not always allowed to be included in the traveling service either. This system does not create freedom, but rather restricts sports and leisure activities. At the same time, we know that movement and activity are important for all of us, not least for people with disabilities. These issues need to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like We believe that a coordinating coordinator would increase security and greatly facilitate parents' extensive administration around children with disabilities. This is today an issue that both the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats are pushing, which makes me happy because I myself have been exercising about it since 2012. Madam President, I would like This is a typical issue in which we would certainly be able to achieve something through cooperation and actually obtain approval. I'll give you a pretty clear example of what I mean. Unfortunately, it is also a clear example of how frustrating politics can actually be. Already in 2011, the Swedish National Audit Office proposed to the then government to start a pilot project with coordinators. Who thought it was good? Yes, it was Lena Hallengren from the Social Democrats, Ann-Christin Ahlberg from the Social Democrats, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall from the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Environmental Party. What has become of it all? I made a small impact on the documents from 2016. At that time, the Swedish democrats raised the same motion again. Anders W Jonsson from the Center Party also exercised on similar proposals, and Barbro Westerholm from the Liberals supported it. We therefore have six out of eight parties that between 2011 and 2016 thought it was a good proposal. How are things today? Today we can add the Christian Democrats to that crowd. The problem is that now only the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats are pushing the issue. Everyone else seems to be satisfied with today's situation or has given up the issue. At least we stand firm that there is a need for some kind of coordinating coordinator. The other parties are welcome to explain in their speeches whether they are satisfied with the current situation or why they have dropped the issue. But this is not my point, but the point is that it looks like that in a lot of questions. If we had just sat down, discussed and seen on which issues we think alike, tried to find a lowest common denominator and really make a difference for those who need it and put all other prestige aside, we would have got through many more proposals. Madam President, I would like One thing is certain, and that is that there has recently been a clear deterioration. There is some work going on, but it is terribly provocative, frustrating and completely inhumane to see how these people get caught. It is people with lifelong disabilities who have had assistance needs throughout their lives who are now suddenly denied because the Social Insurance Agency is looking for loopholes and excuses that do not exist. There is only one explanation for this action, and it is a political signal and a bad policy. Who bears the ultimate responsibility is clear, at least to me. Madam President, I would like I thought, even though I had gone over time, to finish a little quickly with a quote that has really had an impact on assistance. This is, not surprisingly, a quote from the Minister for Finance: This is the reasoning of the government and the Swedish Minister for Finance, Madam President, and it is nothing more than a disgrace to the well-being of Swedish society.
i-0cf68d602531886b-394	Madam President, I would like Friday night I was watching TV with the children of our best friends. We were watching Talent. I don't know how many of you usually look at Talent, but for those of you who don't look, I can give a brief summary. It's an entertainment program where you sign up to perform in front of a jury to showcase your talent. Children, adults, singing, dancing and stand-up mixed hello wildly. I'd say it's a typical entertainment program for the whole family. In Friday's program, it was a performance that touched me deeply. What was it about, and what does it have to do with today's debate? Well, Madam President, the reason I was touched was a dance number presented by a number of wheelchair users. The performance itself was incredibly fine, and the interaction and contact between those who danced was amazing. But it wasn't just this, it was like the whole thing that touched. They told them what the dance meant to them, how the movement of the arms had increased thanks to the dance, how social life had been positively affected and how the dance had changed their lives and that a dream had now come true by having been performed in Talang. Magnus, who was allowed to speak for the group, concluded by saying: With this issue we wanted to show that nothing is impossible and that everything goes. Madam President, I would like I thought it was fantastic to see this issue on Friday and that this dance group took place and entered Talang with such radiance and self-evidentness. It really felt like a step in the right direction for the entire disability movement. I think that performances like that in Talang, at prime time, are incredibly important to raise awareness and lighten that it's okay to be different. That is what our society looks like, so I would like to take this opportunity to thank both Talang and you in the dance group for participating and for inspiring more people to take that obvious place in our society. In my opinion, that's how participation should feel and be-- it should be self-evident. Everyone, regardless of disability, should be able to participate in society on as equal terms as possible. That is what we must strive for, and that is what we must adapt and work out our support for. Today's debate is about precisely this: support for people with disabilities. Being able to participate in society is a cornerstone of individual freedom. Two important parameters for participation are accessibility and that the support given is adapted and realistic in the life we live today, 2021. I believe that if we are to be able to see more performances like that in Talang or get more people with disabilities to be a self-evident part of society, in working life and in our workplaces, we need to do more to increase both accessibility, knowledge and various forms of support that actually work in everyday life for those who need it. It does not work with participation in a society if we do not at the same time ensure that society is accessible and that we provide the right support and conditions. Here we can see that we still have a lot of work to do to achieve our goal of everyone's right to participation. MFD, The Authority for Participation, submitted an interim report last year. In this, the Authority points, among other things, to the fact that the disability perspective has not yet had a significant impact. On the question of participation and accessibility, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Center Party, the state, the region and the municipality should take the lead. We believe that the state should review how it can strengthen the conditions for public actors, municipalities and regions to take greater and faster steps forward in these matters. Madam President, I would like The basis for physical activity and health is often laid at a young age through participation in leisure activities and associations. Physical activity, as virtually everyone knows, is one of the most important factors in good health, and health itself is an important factor in being able to participate in society. Unfortunately, we see that physical activity, leisure activities and community life are areas where disabled people participate to a lesser extent. The Center Party therefore considers that activities financed from public funds have a particular responsibility to ensure that they are accessible to persons with disabilities as well. Facilities for play, activity and spontaneous sport must, in my opinion, be accessible to people with disabilities as well. In order to promote movement and activity or participation in associations, actions such as personal assistance and aids must therefore also be granted to such an extent as to enable an active life. The government should therefore, in our opinion, take the initiative to clarify the regulatory framework for disability policy interventions so that people can get the support they need in order to have an active life. Madam President, I would like Despite gloomy figures in terms of physical activity and movement, we are pleased to note that people with intellectual disabilities are living longer and longer. But this also means that there are new demands on social services, on personal assistants and on others who meet older people with intellectual disabilities. This development must be met in the best way possible. I therefore believe that the government should review, on the one hand, how municipalities' efforts for older people with disabilities can be strengthened, and, on the other hand, whether there is a need for a government inquiry on disability and ageing. Madam President, I would like I really wish that in the future we will be able to see more performances like that in Talang. More people with disabilities should be able to fulfill their dreams, whether the dream is about performing on TV or getting that job that you have long strived for. Here our support and our design of society are incredibly important. But getting there does not only require physical availability, proper support or the right skills of the staff. It is at least as much about society's attitude, society's attitudes and our everyday culture. Because no matter how accessible a society is physically, our attitudes, our approach and our culture can be at least as high a wall to cross. Here we can all make a difference together. Of course, I support all the proposals and reservations of the Center Party, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number 3.
i-0cf68d602531886b-408	Madam President, I would like The fact that we have a debate that only affects people with disabilities is actually a rather strange phenomenon. Of course, it is good and important that we highlight just the needs and challenges that we can face if we have a norm-breaking functionality. Unfortunately, we have every reason to do so. But in the best of worlds it wouldn't have been necessary. If everything had been in order, the issues affecting people with standard-breaking functionality would have been a natural part of all policy areas. Then we wouldn't have talked about us and them. Then we'd have talked about ourselves. People with standard-breaking functionality are not a homogeneous group with one and the same needs. They are individuals with their own needs and rights. What unites people with standard-breaking functionality, however, is that they live in a society with strong structures of power and inequality, a society that discriminates. Of those who live with standard-breaking functionality, one fifth are at risk of poverty. The risk is particularly high for women. Unemployment is significantly higher than in the rest of the population. Those who leave school without full grades are more than those who pass their schooling. Health and the possibility of equal health care are worse. Our functionality will determine the possibility of participation and self-determination and will limit our availability. Today, your functionality will even be crucial for how long you have the right to go to the toilet or if you are going to be able to wear makeup. It is so bad that your functionality may decide whether you will be able to live or just exist at all. In the UN International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the starting point is that disability is a social construction and that it is obstacles in society, not the individual's disability, that lead to exclusion. Persons with disabilities are considered to be full holders of rights and part of human diversity. On this basis, it should be absolutely obvious that the concept of functional rights should be integrated into all policy areas and that we should all have the same rights and the same obligations. Madam President, I would like For us in the Left Party, it is absolutely clear that we should all live in a society that is characterised by equality and justice and is free from discrimination and oppression and that we should all have the right to a fine life with the same rights and the same obligations. We have therefore presented a number of political proposals this year based, among other things, on Functionality Sweden's report Respect for Rights? , a report that makes visible the inequalities that exist in rights and what is needed to change it. I will highlight eight of those proposals here. We want to investigate how the UN Convention for Persons with Disabilities can become Swedish law. We need to know what gaps there are in Swedish legislation to achieve the objectives of the Convention, and we need to incorporate the Convention into Swedish law. We want hate crimes against people with disabilities to become Swedish law. The protection of persons with disabilities must be strengthened. Therefore, hate crimes against the group should be included in rules on incitement against ethnic groups. We want to set up a power investigation to increase the participation of people with disabilities at all levels of society. We want to ensure that the Non-Discrimination Act meets its purpose. The new law was a major step forward, but it needs to be analysed to ensure that inaccessibility is indeed a basis for discrimination in practice. We want a national action plan to be set up to identify and address health inequalities and shortcomings in healthcare. We want more authorities to accept job seekers with disabilities in order for more people to get employment. We want to strengthen the social security system and legislate on habilitation payments. We want the government to review access to facilities so that everyone can participate in culture and sports on equal terms. Madam President, I would like I have now presented eight of our proposals. I shall highlight two other proposals. If we are to be able to talk with any credibility at all about everyone having the same right to live a good life, we must save personal assistance. Personal assistance, as we have pointed out, is, like a thousand times, a cornerstone for us to be able to call ourselves a full democracy. We are therefore extremely proud that, together with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, we have made sure that we are going to move to a state head of assistance. Now the Riksdag has clearly declared that we want fair and equal assessments across the country with a high level of legal certainty and that we fully agree that a municipality's economic activities should never be able to govern everyone's right to an independent life. Now we expect the directives that the government and the cooperation parties will soon present to the Parliament's demands. The question is not whether we should have a nationalisation, but what introduction should be like. For us, this is a huge victory, not only because we have passed one of our main demands but also because we got the Moderates with us. We have one absolutely crucial question left. If we are to save personal assistance, the law must be adjusted so that it is based on our needs. We can never accept that case law breaks down a law on rights and that the government only looks at the fact that they use the law as an excuse to dismantle personal assistance. It is now very urgent that we get legislation based on people's needs. The fact that we have been fighting for a decade to restore the law is because the Social Democrats and the Moderates stopped. They didn't want to save LSS. But the question is whether we are now faced with a shift and the Moderates have begun to get the impression that they are now the party that can be the decisive party for a workable LSS legislation. My question to the Social Democrats is therefore: are you really willing to give the Moderates a completely open goal? Are you prepared to go into history as the party that tried to lower personal assistance and let the Moderates be among us who saved it? My appeal to you is that you leave the answer to be no and that 2021 will be the year when you are seriously involved in securing personal assistance. Madam President, I would like Our struggle to ensure that all people have the right to live a good life with self-determination and participation is one of the parts that makes me so incredibly proud to be a left-wing party. We are facing enormous challenges in order to achieve our goals, as if nothing else this pandemic has brutally demonstrated. But every victory we get is proof that we can move forward, a fuel for us to move forward. Today, I have highlighted some of the demands we have put forward this year, but because they concern different areas, they will also be dealt with in different committees. We are in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 8.
i-0cf68d602531886b-427	Madam President, I would like Sweden's national goal for disability policy is to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation of people with disabilities in a society based on diversity. The objective shall contribute to increased gender equality and to taking into account the perspective of children's rights. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is the starting point of the objective. But we must not settle down just because we have a finely formulated goal. No, the reality is changing, and then it is our responsibility here in Parliament to ensure that disability policy is up to date and lives up to the goal. In a motion from the Christian Democrats, which is dealt with in today's report, there are 35 proposals which would improve the daily lives of people with disabilities in various ways. I regret that today we will not have the support of Parliament for any of these proposals. However, I am really concerned that we do not even get support for proposals that could help to resolve the acute crisis in personal assistance. Madam President, I would like On 30 January 2018, almost exactly three years ago, there was a public hearing here in Parliament. The theme was personal assistance and the impact of legal developments. The background was that the case law had become much stricter after the S-MP government's letter of regulation to Försäkringskassan 2016 with the directive to break the development of the number of assistance hours. A number of old judgments had been dusted off and applied more stringently than before. There was an accelerated reduction in the number of persons covered by the assistance allowance. It had become increasingly difficult to get into the system. When there was a new judgment in 2017 regarding waiting time and preparedness, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency alerted that thousands more people risked losing the right to assistance if that judgment were to be applied. The government was forced to pull the emergency brake. Retrial stop was on the way. But the situation remained acute, and hence the hearing. Madam President, I would like When I listened to the hearing again the other day, it felt like time had stood still. At the time, representatives of the functional rights organisations described, as at present, that people do not receive sufficient support from the assistance compensation for the so-called basic needs. We talk, for example, about eating, getting undressed and caring for one's personal hygiene. The authorities' reports then confirmed just as now that picture. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions, or county councils as it was then called, then described just as now that the municipalities had to take greater responsibility but that there were also major differences across the country in assessing the right to municipal assistance. The Government representative stated that it was important to take note of the state of knowledge and the authorities' reports but wanted to wait for the LSS investigation and its proposals to be presented in autumn 2018. Now we all know how criticised that investigation was and that it did not have any solutions to the urgent problems that remain to this day. But if time has stood still in the political world, I can guarantee, Madam President, that time has not stood still for people with extensive disabilities and for their families. These are people whose lives are being torn apart waiting for us politicians to act. Since the 2018 hearing, there have been a further 1,000 fewer people with assistance payments today. In the Government's latest budget proposal, it is estimated that an additional 1,000 people will receive assistance compensation in 2023. It is clear that the measures that have been taken since 2018 have not been sufficient, and the crux of the matter remains. The basic needs used in the legislation are divided into small parts according to what is considered to be of a private nature or not. This leads to the absurdity that, for example, only the time it takes to dry the butt counts as the basic need for personal hygiene, not the rest of the time it takes to perform the need in the toilet. It's obvious people get hurt. It is clear to us Christian Democrats that today's case law on personal assistance makes us, as a country, not live up to either the UN Convention or our national objective of disability policy. Madam President, I would like An accident on the ski slope, a dive from a jetty, a stroke or a traffic accident can in an instant change the life of each of us – forever. Then, just as when a child is born with a disability, LSS and the assistance allowance must be there as a safe insurance policy. It is a guarantee that society will provide the support that is needed for each of us to be able to live a good life even with a disability. Today's case law means that LSS does not live up to that protection. I do not think any of us here in Parliament want to go back 30 years when people with disabilities were referring to institutional housing or a lifelong dependant. But the risk is that we're on our way back there. And for many people, the betrayal of society is already a reality. Today's case law and the unwillingness of politics to correct the law on the assessment of basic needs mean that too many people live in isolation and are completely without self-determination in their own lives. Madam President, I would like When the Committee on Social Affairs calls for a public hearing on the occasion of a crisis situation, I believe that it is our duty to manage and act on the basis of the knowledge then given. It has now been three years since the hearing on assistance, but the crisis is continuing with full force. We Christian Democrats have repeatedly made proposals here in Parliament that all basic needs should be assistance-based in their entirety. Now we are doing it again, and I would therefore like to support our reservation 9 in the report in question. Basically, it is about human rights and what society we want. It is high time that more parties acted now. Those parties who are not prepared to remedy the shortcomings of the law should perhaps instead act to lower the ambition of disability policy's national objectives. That would be unfortunate and something that we Christian Democrats would obviously fight against. But at least it would be logical and more honest.
i-XmH2duwcpzSmsPpWQ16xdU	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support reservation 29 in paragraph 20. Madam President, I would like During the coronapandemine, many – both people with functional variations and everyone else – have been forced to involuntary isolation with increased anxiety and impaired health as a result. We know that social association and physical activity are some of the most important factors for good health. These are the very things that are now on pause. People with disabilities in general and those with visual impairment, as well as persons with hearing impairment or deaf blindness in particular, may be among the most vulnerable in these situations. These people have far less opportunity to use all the different digital channels that so many of us have had to take in as part of our everyday lives to keep in touch with the outside world. This applies regardless of parliamentary meetings or social meetings. Many opportunities for sports and physical activity, work in daily activities, meeting places and habilitation activities etc. lie down. People, Madam President, with all sorts of functional variations and perhaps particularly blind and severely visually impaired people, often depend on close relatives being able to come to visit and help with practical things or by a municipal or other guide in order to go shopping, visit health care, exercise and get to leisure activities and more. In many cases, the pandemic has completely deprived the individual of that support. For those who meet close or municipal staff, this has meant obvious health risks and, in many cases, serious illness. We know from the past that the right to escort, contact person, personal representative, visual support and mental and physical accessibility needs to be clarified through strengthened legislation. It hasn't happened. At the moment, the Corona crisis has not only confirmed but has also greatly reinforced the need for action in these areas. This is where the government owes the answer. Madam President, I would like The LSS with all its efforts and not least personal assistance are absolutely fundamental issues of freedom for thousands of people in our society. These are also fundamental issues of freedom in the Liberal Party DNA. For us, it has always been important to increase freedom most for those who have it least. In January 2019 came the so-called LSS investigation Review of efforts under LSS and assistance compensation n, as it is so beautifully called. It is an investigation which, even before its completion, met with massive criticism, not least from us liberals. After over a year in the drawer, the government chose to give it out for a referral against our serious advice after all. Now the consultation period is over, and the answers show that we Liberals were right from the start. What we said was true. The investigation does not hold and should have been relegated to the archive by 2019. Madam President, I would like Words such as legal uncertainty, lack of children's perspective and a swelling state bureaucracy can be a description of the situation within LSS right now. But it also emerges when you read the referral document on the LSS investigation's proposal if they were to become a reality, according to many heavy referral bodies. The harsh criticisms of the functional rights movement and the industry were expected and fully justified. Criticism from the government's own authorities is more unexpected but equally harsh and equally stingy. A review of several heavy-duty authorities' referrals leads us to the conclusion that the LSS investigation would never have gone out for referrals. The massive criticism in key areas that is directed against the investigation obviously undermines trust, and the conclusion can only be that it should be relegated to the archive. It cannot be used in the further work of restoring LSS and personal assistance, as we Liberals have demanded from the outset. It is time to say it again: No, do it again and do it right! Madam President, I would like The debate on fraud in the area of assistance is topical, and crime must of course be curbed and removed. But in this area, too, the investigation's proposals are being seen. The Swedish Financial Crime Agency notes quite clearly that the proposals in the investigation are not sufficient to achieve the long-term sustainable development of the personal assistance operation. We Liberals demand that the government take the LSS-legitimate seriously and put the need first. The Social Insurance Agency must be reformed, the role of IVO must be strengthened and a strong independent LSS inspection must be set up quickly. Finally, Madam President, the fact that we received promises in the January agreement to restore the right to personal assistance was a crucial condition for the Liberals to be able to agree to this agreement. Some small but important steps have already been taken, and work is ongoing with a few more. But it takes time to build up what has been torn down for a long time, and we Liberals are not satisfied. We are calling for more than we agreed in the January agreement. The government and all parties – all parties – are responsible for the answer, which becomes clear when you read today's report. It is time to move from words to deeds.
i-0cf68d602531886b-453	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson and I have often stood in this Chamber and really fought to get personal assistance in order. It is my firm conviction that this really is also Bengt Eliasson's ambition. On the other hand, little has been shown in practice. Now the Riksdag has said its thing: We want a government headship. We have also been promised that we will have directives. My question to Bengt Eliasson is: Will the directives that you are now going to present deal with how we implement a nationalisation, or are you still on the question of whether it should be a nationalisation at all?
i-2qLJ1T2umoM4MKamNQi1Ei	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Maj Karlsson. We fully agree on the issue of re-establishing personal assistance. As I said, Maj Karlsson and the undersigned have often been shoulder to shoulder on the barricades in this matter. Work is now under way in the Government Office to produce directives. The pace of it controls the department completely. I'm afraid we don't. In the negotiations where we discuss the content, it is, just as Maj Karlsson describes it, how the issues of implementation are dealt with: What is it that needs to be done in order for there to be a long-term sustainable reform of the head office of personal assistance? The fact that the focus on my part and on the part of the Riksdag is that it should be state-owned is absolutely self-evident. There is a very broad majority for that. That is also the focus of the work in the negotiations that I am involved in. I am pushing for this to come as quickly as possible. I would have thought, as I explained in this House earlier, that the timetable would be somewhat more timely than it is now. Unfortunately, that is not the case. For reasons I don't know, it's taken longer. However, I am absolutely convinced that this will come as soon as possible.
i-0cf68d602531886b-459	Madam President, I would like I am very concerned, Bengt Eliasson, that there will be directives which do not indicate that we are getting a nationalisation. That is what Parliament has demanded. That is what we have come forward with. This is also what Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals have promised for many years. This is a key issue! One thing Bengt Eliasson has criticised us who put forward this committee initiative for is precisely the time aspect. It would not be so neat if the government and you cooperation parties were to drag on in such a way that this would not be possible to implement. Parliament has said its thing. Now it's up to you to deliver. I hope that Bengt Eliasson now stands by his word and that we are therefore talking about a nationalisation, not about whether it should be a municipal or a state headship.
i-0cf68d602531886b-462	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your support, Maj Karlsson! It is precisely this support, having virtually the whole Parliament in its back, that gives us the opportunity to push these issues forward clearly. Now we're not in the government. It is the government, the ministry and the minister who own the main issue in terms of the final, what is presented. But we do not give up in the negotiations; so does Maj Karlsson. Just as Maj Karlsson describes it, since the mid-1990s my party has decided that the headship should be united and that it should be a government headship that manages the financing of the entire personal assistance. It means a solid effort to get to the test of needs, to get to all the parts where judgments since 2009 – if I do not remember completely insane – have interfered with and gradually, slowly but surely, ground down and messed up the judgments and the right to personal assistance. In this work we continue to stand side by side. I can assure Mr Karlsson that we will not give up in the negotiations until we arrive at a draft directive for the investigation that everyone can feel satisfied with.
i-0cf68d602531886b-466	Madam President, I would like It was a bourgeois government that introduced the LSS under the leadership of the then People's Party Minister for Social Affairs Bengt Westerberg. I share my predecessor's view in the speaker's chair, Maj Karlsson, that there is no doubt whatsoever that Mr Eliasson has an extremely strong commitment to these issues. We also heard in the speaker's chair that this is the DNA of Liberal politics, and I am very pleased about that. At the same time, Madam President, I am concerned. In recent years, despite the fine words in the speaker's chair – even today – the Liberals are voting against proposals that could make a real difference in everyday life for people with disabilities. In this case, Madam President, I am referring to the fact that all basic needs should be assistance-based in their entirety. This is, of course, the assessment – as the honourable Member knows – which is critical and which is causing so many people to fall out of the system today. I wonder, and I think there are many who are watching the debate who are also doing so: why, Madam President, are the Liberals again voting against sharp proposals here in Parliament that could lead to all the basic needs being fully eligible for assistance?
i-0cf68d602531886b-469	Madam President, I would like I thank Pia Steensland for the question. It is absolutely true that it was our party leader Bengt Westerberg who, in the 90's – actually started work in the late 80's – pushed through the reform. It is also our party that has perhaps most consistently defended and wanted to develop the LSS over the years, and we intend to continue to do so. Persons with extensive disabilities have the same right to independence and participation as everyone else. It becomes clear, and I tried to describe it briefly in my main speech earlier, that the way in which Parliament works for people outside this Chamber may seem strange when it comes to how parties take a stand and vote on various issues. Today's motion for a resolution contains a wide range of proposals, and some are good and others are perhaps less good, in my view. But if you look at the reservation list you can see that almost all the reservations are in favour of your own exercise, and there are very few co-writing. KD and SD have signed up for some of the reservations, but otherwise it is not. It gets crazy when you point this out and say: You say no to this. That is exactly what happens in the parliamentary work. It is a completely different approach with joint committee work that wants to be done. In that case, we need to develop the discussion much more in committee work in order to come up with common positions. So does Pia Steensland.
i-7du5kysTkCfy7wF1mQ8iXK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for your answer! We have a very good social committee with a good atmosphere. We have come to a united decision on many important issues over the past year. Bengt Eliasson usually says that the work is ongoing within the January agreement to establish the right to assistance and also based on the needs assessment. But the problem, Madam President, is that this very critical point is not included in the January agreement. I am concerned that this agreement with the government is putting a stop to the possibility of talking with all parties in order to find a majority and move forward with proposals that can make a real difference to people. That's what worries me. Since this particular issue of basic needs is not included in the January agreement, I believe that the Liberals have an opportunity to actually support that reservation as well. I would like to reconnect a little on the issue of the government's head office for assistance. Just as Maj Karlsson from the Left Party has described, it is incredibly important now that the directives will land in that it is the state that should be the main responsibility and that it should be good and take place in a legally certain way. The directive to the government is that those who have municipal assistance should be secured, admitted and subject to the review ban. The honourable Member has pointed out in some contexts that this would not be the case and that the directives are weak here. In a written answer to a question from me, the Minister for Social Affairs has indicated that he cannot yet give an answer as to whether it will be the State that will be in charge.
i-SaUppqHL22kkznC2ku1u2L	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland! I am trying to interpret what Pia Steensland intended to ask at the end of her speech, and that question should probably be put to the government parties instead. It was clear in the debate about the announcement that it was precisely where the differences of opinion, or cracks, went. I therefore believe that it is better for that question to be put to my colleague, Mikael Dahlqvist, the representative of the government. If we back up the link to what is included and is not included in the January agreement, it is correct that the needs tests, the question of basic needs and integrity-related requirements are not words that are relevant. The investigation led by Fredrik Malmberg, who is currently working, touches on these issues. I am absolutely convinced that this needs to be dealt with. It is my entry into those parts of the talks that I am in on the directives for the investigation that should look at nationalisation. It's been my message the whole time. These are fundamental and important issues for us to be able to make one of the largest sub-reforms within the LSS since it came into being. That's what it's all about in this mastership shift that's coming. It is therefore incredibly important that this is not an exception rule but that it is determined directly what needs assessments are to be based on, so that assistance is more and not fewer.
i-0cf68d602531886b-482	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson speaks for himself and gives clear support to people with visual and hearing impairments. It is of course worthwhile and good, but the fact is that Bengt Eliasson has chosen to support the government's budget. When I listen to Eliasson I almost get the feeling that he is happily unaware of the current situation for deaf, deaf-blind people and for that matter also people with impaired hearing. The Government's budget for 2020 states that the state grant that will increase opportunities for interpreting services in working life ends. Thus, Eliasson has supported a decision that makes it more difficult for the group of people that he highlights as particularly important in his speech. It's gonna be a little weird. Does Bengt Eliasson not think that state grants to increase the possibility of interpreting in working life are good, or why is this difference between the speech and the actual action?
i-2XwLUsiHfUCbgoecjALiyk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt, for the question. It is quite right that the targeted state contribution has been removed. To my knowledge, without having the columns in front of me, it is embedded in the general state grant rather than because the aid that came was permanent. I have not been told that it would be removed and deleted completely from the budget, but the support is embedded in other subsidies. On the other hand, what I mentioned in my speech, Madam President, was not just interpretation aid in the workplace – it is perhaps included as a detail in it – but the massive reduction of assistance with escorts, contact persons, personal representatives and housing support that has actually taken place for people with functional variations in general and for those who are visually weak, blind or deaf-blind in particular. Some municipalities have almost completely removed it from the grant scale or made it so difficult with very long application periods in advance that it has become completely impossible to get the support anyway. This makes it clear, not least now in Corona times, that these people are under house arrest. It is a harsh word to use in this debate, but that is actually what is happening. It is about people whose freedom and everyday life have been curtailed something quite incredible – perhaps even more than for all of us who, so to speak, are only, excuse the expression, affected by the coronap ademin in general. This is a broader argument than simply referring to the aid for interpreting.
i-93GVaw73M9oRdPa2X5BWzB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for your answer! I am 98 % sure that the budget states that this initiative will end. That is why we Swedish democrats have chosen to budget for continued support. If it really is that Bengt Eliasson is serious about this, perhaps it is something he should review for future budgets. I think that this is an important support that is actually needed. I want to pick up something else. Bengt Eliasson spoke to Pia Steensland about the work of the Riksdag and that there are many reservations where everyone is doing his work. That is exactly what I raised in my speech. If we just talk together and look at common opinions and where we have the lowest common denominator, we could get through many more proposals. It's gonna be a little weird. I will come back to the difference between what you say in a speech and how you act. Does Bengt Eliasson and his party choose to refrain from agreeing with a lot of suggestions, which they see as good, just because they have not themselves put them forward? I don't really understand the reasoning. If there are good proposals, which would really make a difference to those in need of support, there must also be the opportunity to let go of prestige and to vote on those proposals that are good, such as the proposal that all basic needs should be eligible for assistance in their entirety. Does Eliasson not think it would be a good proposal to support?
i-6yfGQZxv8AW8SAkEb1FA5b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt! I will start with the question of the budget and interpreting support. I'm not going to go into standing up and without the papers in front of me interpreting the state budget. That would be bluffing, and I definitely don't want to. We'll have to go through those parts. I can only say that interpreting support may not be the Swedish democrats' parade in other areas, i.e. broad interpretation support and not just a visual interpreter and so on. Having said that, there was also a question of cooperation in Parliament and of joint proposals, Madam President. The working methods in the Riksdag are basically based on a majority and opposition work from the past, when there were two distinct blocks. But, as Pia Steensland also described, we often make broad agreements in committee where all parties are involved and where the proposal has come from an individual party. I also note that proposals made by the Liberals over the years can be read in many other parties' proposals a few years later. It is clear that we are joined together in different parts. However, it is a long way from being able to settle the reservation list in today's debate. Just look at it. Then you can see that all parties behave the same.
i-0cf68d602531886b-496	Madam President, I would like Although the legislation is clear that the activities of our LSS homes should be based on respect for the individual's self-determination and integrity, last autumn we had a terrible review in SVT that showed serious maladministration in LSS homes. People were locked up and subjected to offensive treatment. The report has left deep traces in me and surely everyone else who took part in the news. Unfortunately, the image of researchers in the field is validated. The government and the committee acted quickly. The authorities and organisations concerned were called in. Since then, the government has given a number of government missions in this area. Among other things, the National Board of Health and Welfare will review the competence of staff working at the housing community. If shortcomings are seen, proposals for improvements should be made. Together with the Inspection for Health Care and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, it is also necessary to propose measures. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also produce a comprehensive knowledge material on personal assistance. And IVO will clearly explain how they act if they find deficiencies in LSS housing. Of course, municipalities and actors who run the business have ultimate responsibility. Despite strong legislation and other governing documents, this is happening. This must mean that we need to focus more on staff and on the role of the employer. Good care and good treatment are very much about basic knowledge and values. That is where efforts should be made. At the same time, the work environment and the management role will be strengthened. All people should be able to feel safe and secure. No one should be subjected to offensive treatment. Madam President, I would like Special support and special services are a unique law of rights to promote equality in living conditions and full participation in society. We Social Democrats have as a general objective that personal assistance and assistance compensation should be characterised by high quality and legal certainty. However, too many are not granted LSS because over a decade there have been several legal interpretations that have led to narrow applications. We often get criticism from the opposition because the government does too little and too late. Some criticism is justified, but there have also been opportunities for previous governments to act. Madam President, I would like I believe that the government has taken many measures, and more legislative proposals are under way. Already during the last parliamentary term, we made several decisions for the LSS. A thorough LSS investigation was conducted. The referrals that have been received are now being analysed and compiled in the Government Office. We also stopped two years of testing, because the whole reform was rocking. Madam President, I would like Disability policy has been given considerable scope in the January agreement. A number of sharp proposals will be implemented. The part related to breathing and probe feeding is ready. Fredrik Malmberg is investigating how to strengthen the right to assistance for people in need of self-care and supervision. The assignment also includes reviewing the so-called parental responsibility, so that more children will receive assistance. We promised to review the head of personal assistance. Investigation directives are in the process of being developed. We have significantly increased the amount of the hourly salary by 3.5% for this year. And we are looking at implementing the EU accessibility directive. We are also conducting an investigation to review additional costs in LSS homes. The purpose is to review the costs incurred by the individual to live in a dwelling with special service according to LSS. This is a very topical issue when a person with a disability who has a disability benefit has to pay a significantly higher rent for his or her home than a person with no disability. The interpreting service has also been lined with challenges, and based on the investigation, an analysis will be made and an action plan will be developed. It is equally important to work with status enhancements and quality improvements for personal assistants. In 2020, a report was submitted by a study showing what measures need to be taken to improve their working conditions. In addition, historical efforts in welfare have been made and are being made, so that care and care are strengthened. This is particularly important during the current pandemic. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, assistance payments are often mentioned in connection with welfare crime. We have to remember that there is a small part involved in crime. But for the legitimacy of the system, it must be curbed. It is important for the assistance allowance to benefit people with disabilities. The government has commissioned several authorities to work systematically on the issue. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that it is important that these issues should be given greater scope in the political dialogue and that they should be given priority. For many people with disabilities, there are still differences in economic conditions, opportunities for education, work and health. It is clear that, with all the major financial contributions that are being made, we should have a more equal distribution. Equality is always the overall goal of the Social Democrats.
i-0cf68d602531886b-512	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I cannot say the same thing to Mikael Dahlqvist as I said to Bengt Eliasson. Over the years, you and I have not been very much in agreement on these issues. But things can change. I want nothing more than for you and me and our parties to move forward on these issues. That would be honorable. You yourself mentioned that you know the will of the Riksdag; we want a nationalisation of personal assistance. My first question concerns future directives. Can we be sure that they will be about how we implement nationalisation and not whether we will? The Parliament has been clear with its will. I'd like to know when they're coming too. It's about time. It would be nice to have an answer to this. I would like to ask you one more question. We have just heard in a speech from one of your partners, the Liberals, that the LSS investigation has been out for a referral again in a renewed form. There were not very good reactions to it. Does the government intend to make proposals from the investigation? I really recommend you not to. The investigation did not provide what we need to secure personal assistance.
i-8rfaAPnc6teaK6CAUw2bZo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maj Karlsson, for your questions! The first question concerned the nationalisation of personal assistance within the LSS. There's my message clearly. There is a negotiation and discussion between the government and the cooperation parties on how the directives should look. We have, of course, taken note of Parliament's will and, of course, we will respect it. How it is then designed is as Maj Karlsson understands, Madam President, the mandate of the Government. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that a principal does not solve all the problems. I have said this before here in the speaker's chair to Maj Karlsson and others. We must also look at the consequences. But, as I said, we have an agreement with the January agreement, and we have taken note of what Parliament thinks. Madam President, I would like The second question that Maj Karlsson asked me was how we look at the LSS investigation that has been sent for a referral and about which we have received answers. Unfortunately, it is largely not good. However, our ambition has been to be able to use parts of the investigation to get ahead with the errors that exist today in the LSS reform regarding the interpretation of needs and so on.
i-0cf68d602531886b-519	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist, for the answers! I am cautiously in favour of what I hear. I very much hope that you will respect Parliament's wishes, will and decisions. You mentioned before that previous governments have not done what they should do either. You have now had a very long time to do what you are going to do. You can't say for long that it was someone else's fault. You're responsible. There are two things that are super important – actually basic – for us to really secure LSS. The most important thing is to adjust the law to all the judgments that have come since 2009. We are all well aware of this. The problem with the LSS investigation was that this was never the ambition of it. You now have the opportunity, before the end of your term of office, to do what is necessary in order for us to make real progress on this issue. I guess you can pick things here and there. That's good, even if it's slow. But that is not what it takes for us to be able to make the really big change, which, of course, is absolutely crucial to saving personal assistance. This is a sacred law of rights. We can't lose it. You're in charge. Will you take the chance now? That's what I'm asking. Do you take it? Do you?
i-XvuDoHnqVEeNPVnBJYoujR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maj Karlsson, for your questions or your wishes! I personally hoped very much for the LSS investigation and that it would contain ready-made legislative proposals that would have improved the legal interpretation of I think that there are still embryos in the investigation that can make it a better outcome for those who need help so that we can better interpret our basic needs, Madam President and Mrs Karlsson. But you know, like me, May Karlsson, if we're going to start a new investigation, it's going to take two or three years before we get to a decision. Unfortunately, that is what has delayed the process. Yes, the government and we are responsible for what it looks like. There is nothing to hymn about, Madam President. Earlier in my speech, I just wanted to point out that it has been going on for a historically long period which has been paved with certain difficulties. It has also been difficult to get a consensus in Parliament on the issues.
i-0cf68d602531886b-526	Before moving on to the next change of line, I would like to remind you of the parliamentary custom that we have in Parliament. It is that the speaker formally addresses his speech to the President and thus indirectly to the Members of this House. Simply put, it means that the members of Parliament talk about each other, not to each other. Members speak to the President and tell him what they think on various issues. A Member who speaks of a speaker in a debate by, for example, responding to an argument should use the speaker's first and last name. This means that there should be no direct appeal between the speakers, for example, to say
i-0cf68d602531886b-528	Madam President, I would like Member Mikael Dahlqvist knows just as I do how important the assistance reform is for people in everyday life. It is a reform that increases the quality of life tremendously. I know we share this knowledge. I would therefore like to know, Madam President, how the honourable Member feels about developments in society in terms of assistance. In my speech, I referred to the hearing that we had three years ago here in Parliament. Then we had the acute crisis of the case law that had been further circumscribed. I believe that the statistics indicating the number of persons covered by assistance payments, Madam President, clearly show that the regulatory letter that came in 2016 had a devastating effect. More than 2,000 people today receive assistance compensation compared to 2016. Before that, it had always increased. There was no reduction at all. Madam President, I would like It is incredibly much more difficult today to come in for the first time with their assistance application. Before 2016, approximately one in three applications for assistance was granted for the first time. Today it is about 17%. It is therefore incredibly difficult even if you have a wide-ranging disability. This is due to the stricter assessment of basic needs. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the honourable Member is satisfied. Have the Social Democrats done enough since the 2018 hearing?
i-0cf68d602531886b-532	Madam President, I would like I thank Pia Steensland for the questions. Madam President, I would like It is clear that we are not satisfied with today's development of the situation, and it is clear that I personally would have liked to have seen us come a long way. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that we have done a great deal to eliminate the worst development. We've done that in the sense that we've stopped the two-year trial. Furthermore, we have stopped the decision to remove the right to on-call and alert, as Pia Steensland knows well. We have also made sure that breathing and probe feeding count as basic needs. We will also, Madam President, review parental responsibility and the right to basic needs. It is clear that, as Pia Steensland suggests in her rhetoric, we need a major change in what is included in fundamental needs. I very much hoped for the LSS investigation that was carried out last parliamentary term, and perhaps we could use parts of it and thus move forward. I would just like to emphasise that we are very much in agreement on the fact that too many people are not entering the system today. I'm very sorry about that.
i-0cf68d602531886b-535	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Dahlqvist for his answer. That's right, isn't it? I would be dishonest if I persevered that nothing has happened in those three years. It has. As far as breathing and probe feeding were concerned, a decision was made from autumn 2018 with the joint budget reservation of the Christian Democrats and Moderates. Then it took far too long for the government to bring the matter to a conclusion. The functional rights organisations and, among other things, we Christian Democrats here in Parliament pushed for the fact that the government put forward proposals that would actually make it even worse for people with disabilities who had other basic needs than just breathing and feeding. Madam President, I would like I am often told by the Social Democrats that this is such a difficult and complex issue. I mean, we can't be afraid to deal with a matter because it's complicated. It is people's lives that are at stake while waiting. The honourable Member states that he had hoped more for the LSS investigation that is still on the table. But we already knew in January 2019, two years ago, that the proposals that were there would not be enough to review and correct the case law for the very basic needs. Last year, Försäkringskassan changed its guidance for personal hygiene so that it became even much stricter what can be included. Time's running out. In fact, in the two years that have passed since January 2019, we could have had new legislation in place now.
i-0cf68d602531886b-541	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Mr Steensland that the government acted forcefully in terms of breathing and gavage. We put forward a proposal where there were doubts as to whether it would be legally valid. It went faster than we intended. As a result, we had to come back with a modified proposal in that part. Nevertheless, this shows how complex and difficult the legislation is. Then we can always have different opinions on how quickly and effectively we act. There is no black and white truth, but there is more of a greyish tone in that process. Nevertheless, it was the government that put forward the bill on breathing and probe feeding, just as we will be presenting proposals in the future to secure also other difficult areas, such as parental responsibility. We'll see how far we get in the process. But clearly we are not satisfied, but we need to make further improvements.
i-0cf68d602531886b-544	Madam President, I would like Last week I served with eleven colleagues from the Swedish Parliament in the January session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where I am a member of the Committee on Gender Equality and Non-Discrimination. When I see in this Assembly of 47 Member States what we have achieved in our country on these issues, I feel proud. This does not mean that although we are successful in issues of equality, we cannot be better. Madam President, I would like I am deeply touched by all the stories and conversations with people who need personal assistance and who struggle and toil every day. They want nothing more than to live as independent a life as possible. And their relatives want nothing more than their daughters and sons, mothers and fathers to live their lives in safety and dignity. Disability policy is part of the work of a more equal society, where people's different backgrounds or circumstances should not determine the possibility of participation in society. Personal assistance is a reform of freedom that we are proud to have introduced. It is a reform for greater freedom in its very best sense. But there are also shortcomings in this reform in structure and form. There is a need to review elements of the reform in order to develop higher quality, clarity and sharing of responsibilities and competences. Order and order in welfare are crucial. It is basically a question of what approach you have and from what point of view personal assistance issues are considered. We Moderates protect the right of all people to a more mobile life. Freedom of choice and diversity provide a solid basis for high quality. Evaluation and follow-up, together with authorisation, supervision and sanctioning, are key elements to ensure the continued legitimacy of personal assistance. The challenges that we Moderates see in this area relate to how we can create the best conditions for high-quality personal assistance throughout the country. Here we are proud that we Moderates, together with other parties, have been given an investigation into a government headship. Madam President, I would like Over the years, in my hometown of Falun, I have followed three girls, all of whom were born with different disabilities. Over the years, they have needed assistance in various forms to cope with their daily lives both at home and at school. They are wheelchair users and have experienced the problems of not entering, for example, the school gate that has three steps outside and thus being allowed to change school because it was not possible to put an elevator or ramp in order to get into the building. At the age of 16, one of the girls received a letter informing her that she would become an early retirement pensioner. Another received a similar message a few years later. But they wanted to go to high school and educate themselves further! Why wouldn't they? The girls grew up wanting to have children, but how would you manage it when you can't take care of yourself? Society has many fears and still prejudices about how a disabled mother can take care of a child. Madam President, I would like It is now, right now, that society must come in and set up so that these young people can live as normal a life as possible despite their disabilities. In my moderate world, Sweden will be a country where everyone is seen and feels needed. It should not be the case that a disability means that one is suddenly seen as a collective with exactly the same need for support and service. Everyone with a disability should be able to participate in society on as equal terms as possible, and the support should be jointly and severally financed according to needs and be accessible to everyone regardless of the ability to pay the individual or where in the country he or she lives. We are committed to freedom of choice and freedom of establishment. It is crucial that more people get into work and that more companies start and grow strong to provide long-term and sustainable conditions for secure and well-functioning personal assistance and all other welfare in Sweden. More people in work and more strong companies strengthen the possibilities for LSS and personal assistance to be ensured in the long term. Minimum work capacity shall result in all forces aiming to strengthen the work line. It benefits the individual, who is given the opportunity to feel the working community and the joy of developing. Take care of the healthy and not the sick! All three girls today have full employment. Two of them are mothers and have started their own businesses. Madam President, I would like It is important that we in the Swedish Parliament take the necessary decisions to get the right conditions for these children, young people and adults so that they can live as dignified a life as the rest of us. This is a fragile group that we shouldn't let down. We should ensure quality but also prevent cheating and abuse. The starting point is that the efforts for disabled people should be accurate, flexible and cost-effective. They should also be simple and clear and interact well with other efforts. Cheating, fraud and abuse of benefits undermine the system, mainly affecting those most in need of assistance. To this end, increased and more systematic supervision and follow-up of the application and impact of the overall assistance legislation are required. All cheating on subsidies and taxes is deeply problematic. Both in LSS and in other welfare systems, there is a need for sharper monitoring and supervision. All undiscovered cheating is lost tax crowns and resources that could instead have been used to develop the welfare of all with the need for assistance, care and care. It is directly offensive that people who are less accurate should wear their shoes on the legitimate needs of others for support and help. The resources should go to those who are entitled to community support. Those with personal assistance should receive the help they need and are entitled to. Nothing else is good enough. At the same time, support should be long-term and sustainable. Economically balanced responsibility is necessary. Madam President, I would like Issues and decisions related to LSS and personal assistance require common solutions, a holistic approach and balanced balances aimed at long-term, transparency and sustainability for the individual. This is how we reach the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Agenda 2030 objective of full and productive employment with decent working conditions for all women and men, including young people and people with disabilities.
i-0cf68d602531886b-562	Madam President, I would like The Green Party's ideology is based on three solidaritys – with animals and nature and the ecological system, with all the people of the world and with future generations. We and many others support a view of sustainability that says that social sustainability is the goal, a sustainable economy is the tool and the planet sets the limits. We also need to live up to Agenda 2030's determination that no one should be left out. Today, perhaps, we should pay particular attention to Objective 10, which is about reducing inequality and eliminating discrimination. Inequality exists both between countries and within countries, as is clear in this area. Today we are debating motions for support for people with disabilities. We in the Green Party then start from our values of solidarity with all people and from the view that the goal of the transition is social sustainability. It covers everyone. This means that people with disabilities should be included in the social sustainability with everything it means of security, inclusive working life, support for healthy life and care when you fall ill. You should get the assistance you need, and the assistance should be able to change over the course of your life. You should get the support you need to be able to participate actively in cultural life and sports based on what you choose, like and want to do and to be a good and participating parent – or, as all of us parents say, at least good enough. Many of these issues are also involved in the motions that the report deals with. The objective of social sustainability includes all of us together, and here I would like to emphasise in particular all together. When you talk about disabled people, it can sometimes lead you to think that it is most of interest to those who have a disability, but as mentioned earlier, this is something that is of interest to all of us. This is a safety net that applies to all of us if we need it at some point in our lives, whenever it happens. Of course, LSS and the assistance reform have a strong focus. It has improved the quality of life and increased self-determination for many. But this is progress that needs to be constantly monitored. We see from the application of law that it requires an active policy to ensure that quality of life increases, does not stop and does not decrease. Preparations are now under way for an extremely important investigation into a single head of assistance. We need to make use of the knowledge gained in previous investigations. It is incredibly important that the investigation broadly examines the conditions for a single headship and makes concrete suggestions on how to do it. Many people are completely dependent on assistance in their everyday lives, and you should be able to feel confident about how it works and that the changes planned involve improvements. This is an important part of the January agreement that we four parties will fulfil. Another ongoing matter, which I hope will soon come to Parliament, is that of an independent human rights institute that will, among other things, monitor the respect and realisation of human rights in Sweden but also promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. With the above, I call for the proposal in the Social Affairs Committee's report to be approved.
i-0cf68d602531886b-572	Madam President, I would like We have very difficult times right now with the pandemic. We all suffer from it. I think many of us here today are happy to be at work instead of sitting at home in front of a screen. The pandemic has affected communities all over the world – there is almost nothing that has affected so many in such a short time. It was really overnight that we all started sitting at home in front of the screens instead of being physically in an office. It is amazing that we have such a robust digital infrastructure that we have managed to do this, and it has also pinpointed what digitalisation can actually do and how it affects society. Digitalisation is a global and borderless phenomenon that affects us people as well as companies and states on a large scale. It is important that we have a great deal of knowledge about how it affects, what phenomena are behind and the driving forces of different actors in the development of digitalisation. It requires that we who are leading the country, not least the government, have good knowledge in order for us to be able to exploit the potential of digitalisation but also defend ourselves against threats that it can bring. For example, the Digital Administration Agency estimates that the potential of the full introduction of AI technology in Swedish public administration amounts to approximately 140 billion. We care about our welfare systems in Sweden and want to be a welfare state but also see that this is financially challenging in the future given our age structure. Therefore, 140 billion in possible efficiency measures, which do not affect quality or even raise quality if you introduce different digital solutions, is very attractive. But it is important that we do this properly. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have long pointed out that it is important that we have a coherent and well-developed digitisation policy. However, the lack of leadership and vision has been evident in this government. We want Sweden to show clear leadership and invest in education, continue to expand the digital infrastructure, strengthen our digital security, increase the supply of public, open data and enable the potential for AI. The 2017 Transport Board scandal and the scandal on the Swedish power grid in 2018 exposed a complete inability of the Red Green Government to deal with these issues. Unfortunately, these two incidents have also added something of a wet blanket over digital development in the public sector. A new digital leadership is needed in Sweden and a new policy that goes from words to action and takes competition and security issues seriously. Madam President, I would like Several studies, reports and experts point to digital leadership as the primary cause of digitalization in Sweden. We live on old merits and lack knowledge and drive to reach the vision that we have jointly set up. The Digitisation Council, like many others, states that we need to move from words to action. The Moderates share the image of the Digitalization Council, OECD and other experts: The digital development in Sweden is too poor, especially within the Government Office. We therefore recommend that the Government take on board the recommendations of the Digitalisation Council. New objectives are needed in the area of digitisation policy. The strategy includes a vision of a sustainable, digitised Sweden, and the overall goal is that we should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. We Moderates think this is far too low a target. We are all in a position not to be content with just being the best at using. Instead, we should aim to be a country that is leading the development of digital technologies. We will be an innovation hub for new digital solutions. Digitalisation of society is not the goal but the means for Sweden to be a well-functioning and competitive welfare state in an increasingly globalised world in the long term. In order for us to take full advantage of digital opportunities, it is important that we have an expanded and modern digital infrastructure. In the Restart Commission's chapter on digitisation, the author Amy Loutfi sums up the basic prerequisites for digitalisation well: and without infrastructure it becomes difficult for people and services to be connected, without connection it becomes difficult to share data, and without data it becomes difficult to create AI. ..................................................... Sweden has an ambitious objective of expanding broadband, which we all support. That is a good thing, and it should be implemented in order for the whole of Sweden to live. But more action is needed. The government has not chosen to give priority to this issue. We Moderates have three concrete proposals to facilitate deployment. It is about the principle of location, that is to say that you can expand municipal networks across municipal boundaries, if that is what is most economically viable. In addition, a number of state-owned operators have fibre networks that span Sweden and are currently not fully used. It would be possible to make these fibre networks available to speed up broadband deployment. However, it is of course important that we take into account key national security interests in that process. When you talk to operators involved in the expansion – commercial actors and also municipalities – it emerges that there are often detailed problems and regulations that make the expansion more difficult and take longer than would be necessary. We Moderates therefore think it would be good if there were a direct line in to someone at the Government Office who is responsible for tackling these obstacles, so that we do not have bureaucratic or regulatory obstacles that can be removed, but we can quickly tackle them. When it comes to 5G, it is a prerequisite for us to be able to start using not least self-driving cars and many applications with artificial intelligence. We have fallen behind there, and we cannot afford that. It creates less competitiveness and has inhibited innovation that could benefit society. It feels like we have just begun to tackle the 5G issue, while we know that 6G is around the corner. Many countries are investing in developing sixth generation mobile networks. We Moderates believe it is important that we are already reviewing the possibility of setting up a development centre for 6G in Europe. This should be done in close cooperation with Finland and the rest of the EU. Now I'm going to land a little more in people's everyday lives; it's not least about postal services and digital mailboxes. At the top of northern Sweden lives a man who normally picks up his mail in a mail bag a few miles from home. He doesn't have a daily mail delivery. However, he has obtained a digital mailbox. He himself says that it has meant that he is called to doctor's appointments before the doctor's appointment has been, which is a prerequisite for being able to appear. He gets the chance to pay bills on time because they actually reach him on time because he gets his post momentant, just like everyone else. We think it is reasonable to make demands that all people who have a digital mailbox should have the right to receive all their mail from public actors in that mailbox. This would mean a service to the citizens, and the postal distribution, especially in rural areas, would be much more equal as everyone can receive the mail at the same time – except for all the environmental benefits we would make in terms of both transport and all the paper that is spent. I would also like to end by mentioning that we would need to open up for test beds in Sweden when it comes to new applications. We will never be able to create test environments that include everyone everywhere. There need to be laws and rules, so that you can create test beds where you can test things that might go a little beyond existing regulations and other things. We must not stifle development by means of square regulations. Test beds give you the opportunity to test new applications. This we think would be important if we were to take the lead again with high ambitions in terms of digitalisation. Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 19.
i-0cf68d602531886b-593	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 21, but we Swedish democrats are, of course, in favour of all our reservations. Schools have been closed down, workplaces are changing shape from offices to homes, events and events have been cancelled, and one could say that society is going on a sparse flame to overwinter the pandemic that has gone down like a wet blanket around the world. I believe that access to digital technology has never been as important as it is now. You need it to be able to go to school or work, and for a lot of people it is necessary to have a social contact. Part of the population has been socially cut off, as people have more or less been under house arrest for a long time. It creates great anxiety not to be able to meet one's loved ones, whom one may have met regularly in the past. We humans are social, and if we are deprived of contact with friends and relatives, there is a great risk that we become depressed and that the joy of life disappears. Therefore, it is extremely important to at least be able to have digital contact and be able to talk and see your friends and relatives. Madam President, I would like No one in this House can claim that the internet and the services we use for our daily work have worked blamelessly. There have been digital meetings where you find it difficult to connect, the sound doesn't work, you can't see images that appear in slideshows – and how do you even log into all the different meeting platforms that are offered? It is a jungle and certainly not problem-free. Try to have a digital meeting on a train! It's a complete impossibility. In our opinion, it is important for passengers to be able to use their mobile phones and computers to work on trains, which requires a well-functioning mobile network with good coverage. Many trains have access to the Internet, but it is rarely satisfactory because mobile coverage along the railway is often poor. I often need to travel in the ministry, and for my part it is sad not to be able to work during the trip. That would certainly have made it easier, since I have three hours of train travel in each direction to and from work. Sure, I get to plan the time and avoid travelling when I have planned digital meetings, but it steals a lot of time. For entrepreneurs today, stable internet is often required only to be able to charge customers, as cash management more and more disappears. It becomes more difficult for us consumers to shop when more and more people do not accept cash, which means that fewer have cash in their wallets. Without good internet, it will be difficult, if not impossible, for some to operate. Nutrition is also becoming increasingly dependent on a fast and stable internet connection, not least as many elements and services are automated. Furthermore, it is taken into account that a wide range of industrial machinery and work vehicles are already working connected to manufacturers and clients, for example, or that the next generation of passenger cars will communicate wirelessly in real time with various databases, it is clear that the coverage rate needs to be improved in order to enable life on equal terms across the country. Living and working in a large city where the fibre network is relatively expanded is rather painless, but the difference between city and country is great. In Stockholm, the coverage rate is 97 per cent, while in smaller urban areas it can be 40 to 50 per cent and in clean rural areas even lower. Fast broadband is a basic infrastructure that we need in society. It is a question of democracy. The pandemic makes it visible that we need good, stable connectivity throughout Sweden. We must be able to do work, business and school wherever we live. Madam President, I would like The Government has the vision of a fully connected Sweden because it creates the conditions for living and operating throughout the country and drives growth and innovative production. There's absolutely nothing wrong with the vision – it's really good – but when it comes to the government's goals and how to achieve them, it's not as good. In the short term, the target was for 95% of all households and businesses to have access to broadband by at least 100 megabits per second by 2020. By 2020, the target has passed and has not been achieved. In the longer term, the government has assessed the need for targets in two areas: access to high-speed broadband throughout Sweden and stable, high-quality mobile services. There's the key word a lot of use without any perceived limitation. That's great. The targets mean that 98% should have access to broadband of at least 1 gigabit per second at home and at work. The remaining 1,9 % shall have access to at least 100 megabits per second, and 0,1 % shall have access to at least 30 megabits per second by 2025. The objectives also mean that by 2023 everyone should have access to stable, high-quality mobile services where they are normally located. Quite recently, it was possible to read in an evening newspaper about digitalisation and the government's goals. The article reads that according to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, government investment of SEK 20 to 22 billion is required to reach the final target of 2025 and that in parts of the country only 10 percent of households have access to a speed of at least 100 megabits per second. PTS has calculated that the total cost is approximately 53 billion, and the market is willing to invest 31 of these billions. It is worth noting that the Government's budget for 2021 allocates SEK 1.8 billion to further broadband expansion, which requires huge additional resources in the remaining years up to 2025 to reach the targets. We can only hope that this will be the case. Madam President, I would like We would like to draw attention to the difficulties often encountered by law enforcement authorities and the very high costs they have to pay to mobile operators when they need to use secret coercive measures in criminal investigations. This may, for example, involve carrying out telephone tapping or accessing different types of traffic data. As a result, law enforcement authorities may refrain from obtaining this information even if it may be decisive for the investigation work. We therefore believe that it is reasonable for operators' broadcasting and frequency permits to introduce a requirement for cooperation with law enforcement authorities in criminal investigations and to regulate the levels of compensation for access to certain data held by mobile operators. In our view, compensation levels should be reasonable in relation to the effort required to obtain relevant information from operators.
i-0cf68d602531886b-609	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the postal and digitisation report. These are questions that are close to people's hearts. And this is something you often need every day. Digitalisation brings people closer together, and the digital infrastructure is necessary to make it possible to live, operate and live throughout the country. The process of digitalisation has only just begun, and access to modern technology and infrastructure is crucial for Sweden's rural areas. According to the Center Party's view, the covid-19 pandemic has clearly demonstrated the need for continued investment in broadband roll-out and improved mobile coverage in order to continue working, teaching and holding meetings remotely. Similarly, it is important to emphasise the importance of well-functioning broadband and good mobile coverage in terms of our ability to shop online or access digital services in health and medical care at this time. Broadband deployment must therefore continue while taking greater account of sparsely populated areas in the context of broadband efforts. In order for people in Sweden to be able to be fully connected and have the opportunity to take advantage of the potential of digitalisation, it is important, in the opinion of the Center Party, that a digital right of alleman be introduced that guarantees a stable and fast connection throughout the country. Similarly, it is important that more frequency space is released for increased mobile coverage and better telephony and surfing throughout the country. In the framework of the January Agreement and the cooperation that the Center Party has together with the Liberals, Social Democrats and the Environmental Party, SEK 1.6 billion will be invested in further broadband expansion in 2021. This is an important initiative for us to reach the broadband targets and continue digitalisation. This effort is urgent, but it is also important to look at the need: What are we going to transport in the network, and what are we going to use it for? One of the most important ways of creating conditions for jobs, growth and access to welfare services throughout the country is to better exploit digital development. The Center Party wants all households and workplaces, where demand exists, to be connected by 2025. In order for the digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to take further speed, the expansion of fibre and other modern communication technologies is required throughout the country. In order to achieve this, creative solutions such as pooling of broadband infrastructure with other infrastructures and more rapid availability of frequencies for mobile broadband are needed. The fact that people have access to electronic communication and can assimilate social information is important in everyday life, crisis and war. Then there must be access to adequate mobile coverage throughout the country. Not least, the covid-19 pandemic shows the importance of working from home with a good digital infrastructure throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Sweden and Swedish industry have a strong potential in the new digitalised economy, which must be nurtured and developed. At the same time, there is an imminent risk that bureaucracy and rules can slow down the opportunities for digitalisation in terms of new services, new ideas and new jobs. In addition, digitalisation has progressed at different stages in, for example, the public sector, which affects opportunities for better service for citizens – they have different opportunities. The Center Party would therefore like to emphasise that the power of digitalisation should be used to the full. The digital world is based on data exchange via structured communication. However, in many areas the structure of both public data and government IT infrastructure is lacking. This makes communication between systems difficult, among other things. This increases the risk of misreporting and leads to unnecessary costs. The State should therefore establish a common virtual infrastructure where data can be stored securely and decentralised with the possibility of access for authorities as needed. Swedish legislation on public access and confidentiality is a guarantee of the privacy of the individual, but it is also necessary to increase what data can and should be used for. Access must be limited, not only as regards who accesses data but also what they are to be used for. At the same time, public data on Swedish citizens are widely placed on servers available to the governments of other countries. Sweden must therefore ensure that other countries do not have access to sensitive information about its citizens. Therefore, access to cloud services must be ensured for public authorities and other public activities. In addition to the vulnerability itself, the internet in Sweden is partly obsolete. One main reason for this is that it is a centralised mix of networks and infrastructure that is very sensitive to interference. Basically, the Internet needs to be rebuilt in order for it to become a more decentralised robustness. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, it is the fifth mode of transport, which, alongside road, rail, shipping and air transport, makes life, work and living possible throughout the country. Over time, therefore, IT solutions must be made an optional alternative for the choice of measures studies, ÅVS, which the Finnish Transport Agency does, in order to increase accessibility for people across the country. The Center Party believes that a logical consequence of this should be to consider making IT, the fifth mode of transport, one of the Trafikverket's responsibilities. In this way, a more natural way can be found into it as a possible part of the measures included in the choice of measures studies carried out under the four-step principle. It would improve the opportunities for investment in and maintenance of IT in connection with road and rail construction and maintenance, and become an integral part of the Finnish Transport Administration's funding and budget. Madam President, I would like Of course, I would also like to talk a little bit about mail. The 2015 Postal Law Investigation Interim Report As a letter to the post office, the postal industry's perspective on the co-distribution of mail, packages and newspapers is reproduced. It is clear that market-oriented operators, such as distributors, see a need to increase their occupancy in other ways as both newspapers and mails decrease in volume. At the same time, a reverse trend can be seen in the parcel market, as a result of the growing e-commerce. Co-distributing mail, packages and newspapers would, according to the Center Party's assessment, increase both time efficiency and cost efficiency and have a positive environmental impact as fewer transports would be needed. Such co-distribution should be made possible. It is true that newspapers and letters today have different dates for delivery to customers. However, according to the proposal of the Center Party, the joint distribution would take place according to the timetable of the current newspaper distributors. We believe that this proposal would also contribute to maintaining better accessibility and service levels in rural, urban and urban areas. Madam President, I would like During the autumn of 2020, Postnord has conducted an attempt with a bi-day delivery of mail in Lund and Kävlinge. The Center Party has followed and is following this issue very closely. We understand that something needs to be done when the volume of letters drops, but we cannot move on to the bi-day distribution without a more thorough impact assessment. It should be clearly arranged so that newspapers can be distributed every day if necessary, and rural businesses should not be squeezed. Now a new postal law investigation is in place, and we will follow it closely. We are also, of course, following the question of letters, packages and newspapers. This is an urgent issue for everyone and for the whole country. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 7.
i-0cf68d602531886b-624	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 16. Of course, we are always behind all our sports requests. 2020 became a very strange and in many ways nasty year. We live in a pandemic and, as a society, have been forced to change in different ways, quickly and often mercilessly. The crisis has shown the strengths of our society but has also exposed the weaknesses we as a society have and how privatization and market thinking in our joint, tax-funded activities, poor conditions of employment, a sadly weakened welfare, a view of people who have different very valuable and apparent inequalities have made us much more vulnerable than we would have needed to be. Ours and others' vulnerability has been put in lightning. In the pandemic, we have also become even more aware of society's fundamental dependence on functioning infrastructure for both transport and communication. In order to reduce the spread of infection, those who can work or study from home must, which places great demands on broadband roll-out – requirements that are not met. Many do not have access to, or advice to, use the Internet to the extent society requires. In addition, during the pandemic, libraries, for example, have been closed, which means that many who relied on libraries for access to digital services and the internet no longer have that possibility. When schools teach at a distance, inequality and pupils' different conditions become even more obvious when not everyone has access to the internet that is needed to follow their studies. Thus, for those who are expected to work and study from home to reduce the spread of infection, the conditions are very different. We in the Left Party want to see society take greater responsibility for our common infrastructure and that this responsibility includes the infrastructure being expanded throughout Sweden. We believe that communications infrastructure such as broadband, 5G networks and mail, as well as storage of sensitive data, belong to the basic infrastructure in Sweden, just like roads and railways. Communication in different ways must simply work for society and people's everyday lives to work. Then you cannot have the market as an end in itself when the infrastructure is to be expanded. One fifth of all households in Sweden do not have access to broadband, and the worst is access in sparsely populated areas and rural areas. At a time when those who can be expected to work from home and when communication not least with our authorities but also with each other is expected to take place primarily digitally, this obviously poses problems. One thing that would facilitate the expansion would be the Left Party's proposal to take measures to exclude municipal urban networks from the localisation principle, which would allow municipalities to cooperate better on broadband roll-out. The 5G network is to be built and owned by private stakeholders. The Left Party does not support that decision, not least for safety reasons. The extension of 5G is not only a continuation and development of 4G technology but also a system that allows the development of completely new services. The extension of the 5G network could, inter alia, lay the foundations for innovative and climate-smart transport and reduce the gap between town and country. These common advantages require that deployment at all stages ensures our national security interests. The Left Party believes that climate, strategic and security motives strengthen the reasons why the state should own the 5G network and be responsible for the expansion. With the state as the owner, the conditions can be strengthened to prioritise necessary and sustainable future investments over private operators' profit interests, and national security interests can be ensured. Telecommunications networks are socially important infrastructure. Having the state as the owner of the network is a better way of protecting citizens' privacy and security interests than allowing private operators, or foreign state actors, to build the network. We recognise that the decision has already been taken and that the auctions have been carried out, but we still believe that the development of the 5G network should take place under state control and that the network, as part of our basic infrastructure, should be owned by the state. Madam President, I would like Digital storage of data over the internet in clouds is becoming increasingly common and widely applied in the public sector as well. However, there are major security challenges with this. For example, in the summer of 2017 the scandal surrounding the Swedish Transport Agency was revealed, where non-security-rated persons abroad had access to protected personal data. The Authority had outsourced the storage of data to servers of private companies in other countries. There are proposals for the safe management of data through a government cloud service in the form of state-owned storage server halls for the public sector where private could also rent in. The government should follow up on this and make proposals for state cloud services where data and programs can be safely stored. Madam President, I would like For hundreds of years Sweden's postmen have faithfully delivered mail and packages to everyone, whether the address has been in a mountain village outside Gällivare, an apartment building in Sundsvall or a cottage in Gullspång. Now people in the countryside may have to take their own car and drive long distances to pick up their mail. Nor has it gone beyond the fact that Postnord's mail management part will be in crisis unless action is taken. Postnord has a community mission and a statutory obligation to distribute mail to all households throughout the country every day – but without receiving state support for it. Private companies establish themselves in larger cities where the profits are, profits that could have partly financed Postnord's community mission. Nor may Postnord transfer winnings from the package part to the mail section. It's the letters that belong to the community mission. At the same time, we are beginning to get reports from different parts of the country about mergers of post offices, which means more inefficiency and probably higher costs, but they are done with the excuse to save money. Further to the mailbox, fewer pick-up points and every other day distributions are also now being carried out. The level of service we citizens expect and demand is not consistent with organisation and funding. It risks hitting hard those who depend on postal services and not least on rural needs. We therefore welcome the establishment by the government of an investigation into the funding of the post office. Our way of communicating is rapidly changing. Much is being done over the internet, and letters will not be needed in the future to the same extent as now. But we are not there yet, and it is likely to take some time. Not everyone has access, or for other reasons, to digital services. It is time for all of us to start discussing attitudes to the post office and its function in our society. Should we have a postal system that works throughout the country every weekday all year round, or do we want a postal system mainly for the big cities? Is the post a basic common infrastructure, or should it be a private market for profit-making companies consisting of parallel urban distribution systems and private monopolies whose profits are financed from tax revenues in the rest of the country? For us in the Left Party, the answer is self-evident. We are serious about the postal service and other communications operating across the country, and we really mean the whole country – with high quality for all residents and businesses even in rural and sparsely populated areas. That is also where we want to go with our proposals for postal services. Society must regain control of the postal and other communications infrastructure. If necessary, the state needs to go in with resources in order for a functioning postal service and high quality communications to be available to all users throughout Sweden.
i-0cf68d602531886b-644	Madam President, I would like In view of what is happening in the world around us in the form of repression of those who are holding debates to the east, it has to be said that it is a privilege for us to stand here. It is with pleasure to see that we have this freedom of expression. Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with motions that affect digitalisation and postal issues. Already in 2016, we adopted the following targets: By 2020, 95% of all households and businesses should have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits, by 2023, all of Sweden should have access to stable, high-quality mobile services and by 2025, all of Sweden should have access to high-speed broadband. In 2017, the Government adopted a strategy with five objectives: In Sweden, everyone should be able to develop and use their digital skills. In Sweden, the best conditions should be for everyone to be able to take part in, take responsibility for and have confidence in the digital society in a safe way. D-innovation: In Sweden, the best conditions for digitally driven innovations to be developed, disseminated and used should be provided. D-management: In Sweden, relevant, purposeful and legally secure efficiency and quality development will be achieved through digitalisation. D-infrastructure: All of Sweden should have access to infrastructure that allows fast broadband and stable mobile services and supports digitalisation. The targets have been presented, and there is now a vision that Sweden as a whole should have access to fast broadband by 2025. 98% of all households and businesses should have access to 1 gigabit per second, 1.9% of all households and businesses should have access to 100 megabits per second and 0.1% of all households and businesses should have access to 30 megabits per second. Madam President, I would like There are no problems with visions and targets in the broadband area. Despite this, the Government noted that the pace of broadband deployment is too low for the 2020 target to be achieved, which also affects the decisions taken by the Riksdag that we should have world-class broadband. This is deeply regrettable as both citizens and businesses need a well-developed IT system throughout the country if they are to participate in society and develop their own businesses in the best way. I would like to say here that the Covid-19 situation has really shown how extremely important it is for us to succeed in this. Those who have a working broadband have also been able to participate in community discussions, have been able to participate in the further development and have been able to work from home. However, those who have not had these conditions have unfortunately ended up in a situation where there is a risk of exclusion. With this, I am not accusing anyone, because my firm opinion is that we are very much in agreement that we need to work on this. PTS's individual survey of July 2020 shows that nearly two thirds of respondents report that they have fibre or fibre-LAN as their main internet connection, which means that fibre is the most common option. The proportion that answers that they have mobile broadband as their main form of connection was 12 per cent, compared with 18 per cent in 2013. It's moving in the right direction. In urban areas, a larger proportion – 64% – has fibre as its main internet connection at home than outside urban areas, where it is 47%. Outside urban areas, mobile broadband is more common than in urban areas. Every third household outside urban areas connects to the Internet via mobile broadband. The corresponding figure in urban areas is 9 per cent. Madam President, I would like This report shows that we still have great inequalities between city and country, which we need to overcome. It is a matter of business, of democracy and of participation. We need to find a way to give the whole country the same conditions. Madam President, I would like Statistics Sweden's survey of the population's IT use in 2019 showed that around 88 per cent of both women and men aged 16 to 85 use the Internet virtually every day. Among foreign born children, 87 per cent of men and 83 per cent of women used the Internet almost daily. According to the same survey, about 4 percent of women and 3 percent of men never use the Internet. Of the latter, all are 65 years of age or older. So we have a division here between young and old, which we also have to take with us in the conversation if we are to get well-functioning participation. We could talk about integration in this context. This study shows how important it is to have good and functioning communications. More than four-fifths of the population use the Internet daily. Therefore, we must ensure that the system is robust and works throughout the country and also at times when the weather or other external influences challenge the system. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be at the forefront in the development of digital solutions. With new digital solutions, services to citizens can be improved. Digital mail benefits a vibrant countryside and reaches the recipients efficiently and quickly. It is cheaper than physical mail and ultimately better for the environment. Several authorities have now started using digital mailboxes for their communication, which is good. However, as digital mail increases, there is reason to demand that municipalities, regions and government authorities are involved in paying for the digital services being used. Since the start of My Messages, private letterbox operators are estimated to have provided government mail worth almost 1⁄2 billion SEK. The study Reboot – the reboot of the digital administration proposed a replacement model for the digital letterbox operators. The investigation's proposals met with a great deal of support from the relevant consultation bodies. However, we note that the government has not returned with a proposal on the matter. It is important that a remuneration model that provides coverage for both fixed and variable costs is put in place. Today's situation, where companies deliver a service for which the public does not pay, is not reasonable. It undermines trust in the public sector while making it difficult for companies to develop the services that more and more people are using to manage their daily lives. Madam President, I would like In line with society's increased digitalisation, many of the applications and cases previously made by filling out physical forms or personal visits have now been transferred to online platforms. These may include applications for assistance, banking, various educational measures and contact with healthcare and social services. For the vast majority, increased digitalisation makes everyday life easier, and it is important that development is promoted. At the same time, people with disabilities may find it difficult to use these media for various reasons. For these people, it may be necessary to continue to have the possibility of, for example, personal meetings with different authorities and other relevant actors. We believe that this should be taken into account in the development of society's digitalisation. For us, it goes without saying that municipalities, regions and authorities consult organisations representing people with different forms of disability in the development of digital services. Madam President, I would like Access to high-speed broadband is a prerequisite for people to be able to run businesses, work and study remotely. If Sweden is to be the best in the world to use digital opportunities, it requires the continued expansion of robust broadband with high transmission capacity throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Today's report is not just about digitalisation, but it also deals with all the movements involving mail. For KD, it is obvious that we will have a functioning postal service throughout the country. We are therefore concerned about the quality problems Postnord has been struggling with in recent years. There is a risk that the company will not fulfil its social mission. The biggest losers in uncertain letter handling are rural residents and businesses. We therefore believe that Postnord must make the structural changes needed to make operations more efficient and ensure that the letters arrive on time. It is also of the utmost importance that the postal service is distributed throughout the country and that good postal management can be guaranteed even if, for example, the electricity network does not work. The postal and parcel industry is undergoing a structural change in which the number of letters sent is steadily decreasing while e-commerce with subsequent parcel items is growing strongly. Customers demand individual solutions, great availability and good service. We believe that, on this basis, there is reason to promote market conditions by abolishing the universal service for the parcel market. By reducing the scope of the universal service and limiting it to the letter market, conditions of competition in the parcel market should be improved. Today's legislation benefits Postnord at the same time as it penalises other actors. Madam President, I would like I apologise for exceeding my speaking time and conclude my speech by saying that we support all our reservations. But for time winning, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-0cf68d602531886b-670	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating digitisation and postal issues. The situation over the past year, with the spread of Corona, has demonstrated very clearly the need for the whole of Sweden to have access to the digital network. Daily information about the pandemic situation as well as the possibility of working remotely and seeing and talking with relatives and friends during a forced or voluntary quarantine has meant a lot because the Swedish people have been able to keep a distance for a year. However, this must not depend on where you live in the country of opportunity. The pandemic has forced a digital transition in a short time, and business, government and private individuals have learned to handle digital meetings instead of meeting physically. It has been a quick course in digitalisation, and after a year we can see that in most cases we interact and contact each other without major problems. It has been an enormous development. In addition, teleworking is predicted to take place to a much greater extent after the coronapandemine, which affects not least the area on which the Committee on Transport is working. At the same time, we all yearn for those personal meetings and the energy they create. However, this development highlights Sweden's differences in access to broadband and the opportunity to exploit everything offered in digital form – contacts between people, welfare and culture as well as the opportunity to live and work throughout the country. It is therefore important that the objectives of broadband roll-out are realised and that we look at various technical solutions to bring broadband to rural and sparsely populated areas. The regulatory framework should also be reviewed in order to facilitate fibre-drawing across municipal boundaries and along roads. During the roll-out of the broadband network, it is also important that copper networks remain in place until they have been replaced, so that people in the country do not become without a digital connection. Madam President, I would like Sweden will be the best in the world on digitalisation. At the same time, the Swedish Financial Control Agency points out that digitalisation of the public sector is too slow and that the Government's digitalisation strategy does not provide the necessary governance. The OECD also points out that Swedish companies are falling behind in the use of large amounts of data. The government should therefore develop a digitisation strategy that is concrete, measurable and timed. If we are to achieve our high goals, we must push and continuously follow up. What is not followed up will not be realized in time. It is therefore important that authorities continuously collect data on the development of digitalisation. We also propose that an authority be given responsibility for storing basic data for the public sector – the data used by many authorities. At the same time, the EU is taking clear steps towards a common and open data market, which is gratifying. The goal is for us to have an internal data market by 2030. That is a very challenging goal. One looks at common interfaces for access to data, and one is spesaing ownership of data and how we can jointly store data. This is being investigated, and the idea is to make it easier for organisations that want to build services that cover more than one EU country. Here the Liberals have raised the question of who in the chain is responsible for the quality of the data offered. New services are no better than the quality of the data itself, and this is an important factor that needs to be taken into account. In addition to looking at service development based on data, where the focus is on today, it is important to develop the conditions for those who will produce and provide data. The handling of data is costly, which among other things Lantmäteriet has counted on. Here we need to identify new structures to bring about a drastic increase in the number of data sets on the market. What is required, and how can the availability of these data sets be facilitated? The exploitation of artificial intelligence has great efficiency potential and can create many new businesses and many new jobs. It is an important success factor for our competitive companies; it may be a matter of winning or disappearing. Large availability of data is a prerequisite, and Sweden is at the bottom of a series of surveys of the number of data sets available. It is really worrying about the future. The work to make data available in a secure way, to develop a digital infrastructure – such as secure cloud services – and to deepen digital skills must be speeded up in order to make the benefits of digitalisation more effective use by different organisations. In particular, the rules for the use of international cloud services need to be clarified in order not to become an obstacle to development. The EU is also looking at this more closely. Madam President, I would like However, in the midst of all work on digitalisation, which is a necessity for Sweden's competitiveness, the risks of digitalisation must be addressed. It must be combined with analysis of data security, impact on privacy and cyber security. The Data Protection Act must be continuously developed to keep up with technological developments. Sweden could become a pioneer in the work on ethical rules for AI technology. A modern and clear regulatory framework needs to be established to enable an ethical and legally safe use of different AI applications in all sectors of society. This is a very important area. In addition, it is necessary to add a defence aspect to what we do and analyze vulnerability when we collect a lot of data with easy data access and when 5G networks, as well as the upcoming 6G networks, connect society and can be more easily knocked out as the alternatives to the digital are dismantled. Liberals welcome the increased interest in our country's security on these issues. Madam President, I would like The postal service in Sweden is important, and the consequences of digitalisation have drastically reduced the number of letters sent. It has changed the commercial conditions for postal services. It is important that the postal service works throughout the country and that it can be operated on a commercial basis. Everyone realises that the number of letters will continue to decrease, and therefore it is important to find long-term solutions that will truly secure postal services throughout our country in the future. Postage, packages and broadband are important parts for the whole of Sweden to work. Every day must work for everyone who lives in Sweden. Finally, Madam President, we Liberals really believe in Sweden's capacity for data-driven innovation, the potential of digitalisation for old and new companies and for reducing costs within continued good welfare. It is an important platform for Sweden to be a country of opportunity. I support all our reservations, but in this context I only support reservation number 5, the digitisation of society.
i-0cf68d602531886b-687	President. - Thank you very much. I have listened to the six speakers before me, and I note that we are very much in agreement on the importance of digitalisation and broadband for our society. This is particularly true in the situation in which the country is in – and not just our country, but the whole world. Digitisation and postal issues are incredibly important. They are important not only for our world to function but also for us to save the world. Right now, people, scientists and those who are to organise vaccination are meeting digitally. Without broadband and digitalisation – without the internet – this would not have worked. This shows that we in Sweden have always been right about how incredibly important it is to expand broadband and secure access to it for as many people as possible in Sweden. We are among the best countries in the world not only on broadband expansion but also on digital knowledge. We also have a high percentage of IT specialists compared to other EU countries, but there is still a shortage of these people. We need to think about how to solve it. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has shown us that certain tasks and certain jobs can be performed from home while others must be performed physically. An economist, like my wife, can work a lot from home using today's technology. However, my brother, who works in industry, cannot do so; he must be in place. However, he can shop, do banking, book appointments, etc. digitally. In the budget we have sevenfold doubled the allocation for broadband roll-out, and now we are well on the way to achieving the objectives set. But I am also aware that the last 4% will be challenging. We must do that if we are to let Sweden continue to be the leader in innovation and technology. To achieve full coverage that is not only good for lazy surfing, as today's young people say, but enables you to really work from home, study, do banking, etcetera is possible through 5G technology. Now the frequencies have been auctioned, and I hope that everything will soon be expanded. This technology will help us reach the final percentage. Madam President, I would like 5G technology is not only about achieving the goals of connectivity, it is also intended to help us achieve the goal of a more digitised Sweden. This is what will create innovation and future services. I can see how 5G helps us to drive safer and find destinations faster, but 5G will also help in health care. Surgeons will be able to operate using 5G and robots in real time. It will no longer be necessary to go anywhere to be examined or for that matter operated on, but you will be able to do so at your local hospital. I am aware that this will take a few years. However, it is a reality that we are facing, and it will be quick. Therefore, authorities must also be prepared and know how to respond to the challenges of the future. There, competence is incredibly important. I hope that our schools and universities will take that ball and attract more young people to these programmes. It is important that research at our universities leads the way. AI, which in the future will help us make wise and quick decisions, is something we really need to research, but we also need to look at the ethical rules and aspects. I believe that Sweden and the EU have an important role to play there. Sweden stands well in different comparisons. We are in position 1 in the EU in the European Innovation Scoreboard, and in the Global Innovation Index we are in second place. However, we must continue with this fine work. This is why we want to further strengthen Sweden by commissioning Vinnova to prepare the establishment of European digital innovation hubs. This is an important step in further strengthening Sweden's position as an innovation country. Madam President, I would like Already 85 per cent of Swedes use bank ID, and about 80 per cent use Swish. What we need to do more, however, is digital mailboxes – only about 50 per cent of Swedes use them. However, this is an increase of 20% compared to the previous period, and I hope that this development will continue strongly in the coming years. Madam President, I would like I understand what my words mean, namely that the increase in digital mail reduces the amount of ordinary, physical mail. It is a development that has been going on for many years and will continue. We are not the only country in the world that sees this problem, but many countries that start with digital solutions see how the amount of ordinary letters decreases. In the 2000s, the decline has been around 50 per cent, and it continues as more organisations, companies and authorities join digital solutions. However, I can note that PTS's needs studies show that we need to ensure that companies, the elderly, socially vulnerable and those who need physical mail also receive it. These studies also show that people want to see more coordination between the distribution of letters and the distribution of packages, so that it makes life easier. As the amount of mail decreases, the amount of packages increases rapidly, not least in the extraordinary situation we find ourselves in. We must not forget that Sweden is an elongated country where the needs vary depending on where you live – a person in Örebro has much more access to different distribution channels than those living in Klimpfjäll. Therefore, the investigation decided by the Government in October 2020 is welcome. It will look at financing models for future items and will be completed by 31 January 2023. As mentioned earlier, in autumn 2020 Postnord has tested a new dividend model in Lund and Kävlinge. There the majority of letters have been distributed every other day. PTS has investigated this, and in the test areas Postnord complies with the reliability requirements. However, we note that complaints in the test areas have increased. Now Postnord goes on to test the whole of Malmö. I very much hope that both we in the Transport Committee, the Government and PTS are following these developments in order to ensure that the reliability requirements are met. Madam President, I would like The digital future comes to us Swedes at a furious pace. That's why we sometimes have to stop and see if everything goes right. The security threats that are taking place today in various ways are incredibly important to take seriously. We cannot allow other countries or companies to interfere in the decisions we face. Opening up data can give us future jobs, better living standards and greater knowledge of our lives, there is no doubt. At the same time, we must be aware that this can also give others, who want us badly, opportunities for the same thing. That is why these complex issues are something that we must all take seriously. On 10 December, the government decided to set up a national cybersecurity centre. This is an important step in the right direction to make Sweden safer against the new threats. This work must also be done at European level. In its report, the Swedish Security Service states that about 15 states have different forms of security-threatening activities against Sweden. They spend a lot of money and have a lot of resources to do this. It's a more systematic attack than we've seen before. The fact that we have a law in place that gives us greater opportunities to exclude companies that may pose threats to Sweden's security is important. However, it is not just about companies, but also people who work in these areas must be approved in the future. Klas Friberg at the Swedish Security Service says that China is one of the biggest threats to Sweden and that the Chinese state conducts cyber espionage to promote its own economic development and develop its military capabilities. This is done through extensive intelligence collection and theft of technology, research and development. Klas Friberg says that we must relate to this when the 5G network of the future is to be built and that we cannot compromise with Sweden's security. Madam President, I would like We cannot compromise with Sweden's security, and we cannot compromise when people are appointed for hate and threats online. We cannot compromise when our elected representatives, officials and journalists are exposed to threats, hatred and the influence of states, companies or other people in the exercise of their jobs. Finally, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which rejects all the requests. In addition, I can note that I requested ten minutes of speaking time but got eight – I blame the Skype chat! ( FIRST E VICE TALMANN: I think we have a maximum of eight minutes as standard. )
i-0cf68d602531886b-711	Madam President, I would like The EU has identified public data as important for increasing competitiveness and creating opportunities for innovation. There has also been a ranking among EU countries to see how good we are at this with public data. There Sweden ended up in place 23 out of 27. The OECD also has a ranking, called Open, Useful and Re-usable Data Index. There we ended up in Sweden on location 32 out of 33. The Digitalisation Council has stated that it is time to move from words to actions in general when it comes to digitalisation. Here it really feels like we cannot be satisfied with where we have ended up if we are now to be a country at the forefront when it comes to digitalisation. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Denis whether he is satisfied with the ranking and how he views the work of the government and concrete proposals regarding access to open data and the possibility of strengthening innovation and development in Sweden.
i-MbBPz8Acpy8f2skgJRG5JE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. I am aware of Sweden's different rankings and how they look. We work all the time with these questions to open data. But as I mentioned in my speech, it is incredibly important how the security of open data should be and where we should be able to show them. I said in my speech that I am incredibly pleased with the work that Sweden is doing on these issues, but I am aware that we can never compromise with security. We cannot allow other countries to use data for their own profit, either economically or otherwise, but we must find safe methods for sharing this data. Therefore, there is a mission that the authority Diggs has been given. Even Lantmäteriet has been tasked with reviewing how we could share this data in a secure way, so that they cannot be used by others to harm us, but instead used to achieve the goals of more companies, more jobs, new innovations, etc. Of course I'm not happy, but I hope we get there.
i-0cf68d602531886b-718	Madam President, I would like I find it hard to believe that the 22 countries ahead of us in the EU ranking or the 31 ahead of us in the OECD ranking ignore personal integrity and security. I find it difficult to see that this would be an argument that we, as a country with such high tail movements in terms of digitalisation, could not be better off than these two locations. In fact, I think we should be ashamed and not proud of what we have achieved. Open data and competitiveness are a good issue and important for Sweden. But what would this data be used for, and what would it mean in concrete terms? I believe, Madam President, that Denis Begic and I have a common interest in protecting our Swedish welfare state. We want to ensure that we can maintain high quality in the welfare sector in the future, and we all see the challenges of funding it. It is said that we could save 140 billion by using AI in the public sector. Open data is the basis for the AI solutions, so the poor placements make it more difficult for us to retrieve the efficiency options. In the end, this means that we will not be able to maintain the quality of welfare. I would like to put the question to Mr Denis, Madam President: how does the government intend to ensure that we can bring back the 140 billion? How else do you plan to find that money to support Swedish welfare?
i-0cf68d602531886b-722	Madam President, I would like I think we agree that this is important. I listened to all the speakers before me, and if I remember correctly, Maria Stockhaus mentioned in her speech that we had some problems with, for example, cloud services, where data on the Finnish Transport Administration has disappeared to other countries that could use them. This means that we need to be more careful about how we open data. Then perhaps Authority Sweden does not work with the same goals, images and infrastructure as we would have liked. We would have liked to see a permit applied for from the Public Employment Service today being directly linked to the Social Services, the municipality, the region or anything else, just as today we are discussing what the common health infrastructure could look like. I think we have the same goal. But I am aware that we need to be careful about how we achieve the goals, because I am committed to privacy and personal security.
i-0cf68d602531886b-726	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Mr Denis for the very last thing he said. We see how both Russia and Belarus oppress their people. We see how Eritrea, Iran and China are engaged in advocacy campaigns. I really want to thank you for the last thing you said, because it is extremely important when we talk about digitalisation that we constantly also highlight the democracy process and what we in Sweden stand for. Having said that, in my speech I highlighted the fact that we now have more digital mailboxes. We also have municipalities, regions and authorities that use them. But we do not have in place a system that finances the use. As a party and several of the companies that deliver these services, we find it very strange if we have a public Sweden that uses a service but does not pay for the service. At the same time, it is the public Sweden that saves on the mailings that you do not have to do. So there is a digital profit, and the profit is that we do not fell trees, print paper and send it out. It is, of course, a saving, both an environmental saving and an economic saving. But you choose to keep it to yourself and do not share with those who contribute to this saving. This threatens the legitimacy of the system. For example, these companies could one day say: No, we will end here. This is where the party stops. We can't deliver a free service. This would cause major problems for the Swedish Government and public Sweden. That is why, of course, I wonder what the Social Democrats and the government parties intend to do to actually get to grips with this. We need to have a system where you pay for the service you use, so that we can make this continue to develop, because that is a positive development.
i-0cf68d602531886b-731	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus, for the question! I find it difficult to see that we in Parliament or the government are the ones to assess how much the authorities should pay to different companies by post, by letter or otherwise. Even today, Postnord, Bring and everyone else who delivers physical letters negotiate how much each letter should cost to deliver. It is a trade secret how much the Tax Agency, Swedbank and other companies pay, because everyone wants a piece of that cake. It is difficult for me today to say that I would like to see a bill that says how much Government Sweden is going to pay. Should Company Sweden pay another amount or should they pay the same amount, and if so, how much? I'm having a hard time seeing it. However, for me it is self-evident that companies should charge for their services. But that is something that needs to be negotiated between the various companies and digital service providers, as I can see today.
i-0cf68d602531886b-736	Madam President, I would like In the best of all worlds, I would say amen right now – perhaps you can say that as a Christian Democrat – because that would be an amazing solution. However, the information that I have received and which the investigation also points to, if I remember correctly, is that under the current laws and regulations the authorities are not allowed to pay for the service. And it's hard to negotiate with a party that can't say yes. I fully share the view that it should be a negotiation between the various authorities and those who deliver the service, but then we actually need to change the rules so that it is possible for the authorities to pay. They are today allowed to buy a paper service, but they are not allowed to buy in the sense of paying for the digital service, which I have received that talk for me. In such cases, it is a problem that we need to deal with. I would therefore hope that Mr Denis will take this along, look at it a little bit and listen to the various companies, because I think we agree on the principle in principle, namely that if you use a service you should pay for it. And, in my opinion, we also agree in principle on the principle that you emphasise, namely that it should be a business relationship, that one should have a negotiation and so on. I fully agree with that, but it must be possible to make such a deal.
i-0cf68d602531886b-740	Madam President, I would like I will be honest with you that I have not heard before that the authorities must not pay, but perhaps Mr Jacobsson is quite right. I know, however, that Government Sweden once started My government post, which they were commissioned to use. Since then, other companies have also started and contributed. What the honourable Member is talking about can be a residual product of when one once started My government post and many Swedes started using it. However, I know that it was first with the Swedish Tax Agency's digital solutions, for example, that you could declare digitally, that it gained a boost. So perhaps authorities, regions and public Sweden need to do more to further boost. Like Mr Jacobsson, I believe that this will save us time, money, the environment and more. Above all, the post will be delivered on time to people who today do not receive their mail on time. However, I am not sure what is the right way to go. We'll have to think about that.
i-0cf68d602531886b-746	Madam President, I would like It is great that we have high ambitions for the digital infrastructure. I listened carefully to Mr Denis's speech, and he mentioned, for example, bank IDs and Swish, two digital services that are sovereign. Never has it been as easy to pay for yourself as with Swish, and never has it been so easy to identify with authorities with others as with bank ID. We will continue to do this in order to simplify everyday life. Denis Begic also talked about digital mailboxes. Today, the digital mailbox Kivra is used by authorities. I am interested to hear if the government has any thoughts on a government digital mailbox for private individuals, where one can also answer authorities to get a simple communication. I do not use Kivra myself, but if I have understood it correctly, you can only accept authority and not answer the authorities, which makes it difficult.
i-0cf68d602531886b-749	Madam President, I would like I thank Jimmy Ståhl for the question. There is today a government mailbox called My Government Post. I probably use it, Kivra and even someone else, but I'll soon have to decide which of them I should use so that there won't be too much pling in my phone and computer. I have heard this discussion, and I have been to some seminars where it was discussed how to respond quickly and easily to the authorities in digital mailboxes. Today there are some services where you can pay directly in your mailbox. You pay your bill there by connecting your account there. It will probably be the same in the future, and additional services will be provided. At one of these seminars, one of the banks talked about being able to respond quickly – something that customers also wanted. A discussion is therefore ongoing and thoughts about how it should work with regard to security and integrity. You need a receipt that the letter has been delivered to a person, bank or authority. I think something is going on and that Mr Ståhl has got the signals right.
i-0cf68d602531886b-754	Madam President, I would like I'm glad to hear that. You can see that you do not keep up with the digital development, and then it is positive if it goes in the right direction. So to the broadband rollout. Companies that close down fibre also have the task of preparing the land for themselves. Now I have received e-mails about a case in Örebro, funny enough, where it looks like a sork after a broadband expansion, which makes it huge for the landowners. The problem is that an inspector has approved it, even though the land is not prepared. I've seen pictures, and it was awfully sad to see. From what I understand from the person who has contacted me, it is not easy to get things right. An appeal is to be brought, and it is a matter of civil proceedings. Far from all inspectors are dishonest and vile, and this is a special case. But is the government able to give the affected landowners a simpler path so that they do not have to act in civil matters?
i-0cf68d602531886b-758	Madam President, I would like I have heard about this, not from Örebro but from other parts of Sweden. We have also been courted by Trafikverket when recovery has not been done correctly. It has also been part of the problem. Do we have the opportunity to do something different? No. However, it is important that we point out that this is totally unacceptable. We cannot have a system of dishonest inspectors – or, for that matter, companies that do not restore the land, because it is included in the payment given to companies. I am upset that this is the way it is done, and I will take the question with me to both the Committee on Transport and the Government to see what can be done. We have to assess whether there will be a penalty for those companies that do not restore the land. But white is not the important thing, but that they restore the land. I thank you for the input and I'll take it with me. And Jimmy Ståhl is happy to tell the people in Örebro that they can contact me so that we can look at it further.
i-2heXUTDGBUgdTiCEcmewFc	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. In 2020, digitalisation of society took a huge leap as more and more people had to work at home and manage everyday life with digital meetings on different platforms. It's exciting to see how people of all ages embrace a technique that allows us to meet in an infectious way– for meeting, talking and communicating, we want to. Digitisation reduces the need for travel and transport, which is an important part of changing the transport sector and reducing climate emissions. But when society has changed and become more digital, a number of vulnerabilities and challenges are also exposed. First of all, it concerns access to broadband. For many people who have jobs that can be done remotely, it has been a matter of course to take their laptop home, look it up on the kitchen table and work on as if nothing had happened. But for those living in rural areas, unstable connectivity has been the reason why people have had to continue to transport themselves to a workplace in the city and thus expose themselves to the risk of becoming infected. Madam President, I would like I myself have had to make a short, but very illustrative, break from the stable connections when in December I moved to a house in the countryside without access to broadband and with very poor mobile coverage. Thank God the fiber is now installed. We were lucky to have timed well with the broadband expansion – my neighbours have waited a lot longer for the connection. I am now once again part of the digital community. But in a society where everything from banking matters and contacts with municipalities and authorities to reading news, studying, working and running businesses depends on having a good and stable connection, the exclusion of those who do not have access to the digital community is great. This is why the Green Party wants to support digitalisation throughout the country, a well-developed and functioning digital infrastructure and well-functioning telephony and the internet throughout the country. It was with this perspective that Sweden's broadband strategy was developed and presented by the then digitization minister Peter Eriksson from the Environmental Party. Broadband infrastructure is a prerequisite for improving digital accessibility across the country and thus reducing the gaps between urban and rural areas. The objectives of the broadband strategy were that by 2020 95 per cent of all households and businesses should have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second, that by 2023 the whole of Sweden should have access to stable, high-quality mobile services where it is normally located and that by 2025 the whole of Sweden should have access to fast broadband. Unfortunately, the achievement of the targets is too slow, although Sweden is far ahead in international comparisons. In DESI 2020, Sweden is ranked number two in the area of connectivity, compared to the fourth place we received the previous year. 97% have access to broadband of at least 30 megabits per second, and 84% have access to at least 100 megabits per second. Access to broadband via fibre alone totalled over 80 per cent of households in 2019, an increase of 3 percentage points compared to 2018. The increase from the previous year is mainly visible in areas outside urban areas and small towns, where access has increased by 7.5 percentage points to around 48 per cent. Supply in urban or small towns increased by just under 3 percentage points to nearly 84 per cent. It is positive that the digital divide between city and country is narrowing. The assessment right now is that we will be close but not quite at the goal that the whole of Sweden will have access to fast broadband by 2025. So just roll up your sleeves. The Government has the ambition that we will reach the targets, both 2023 and 2025, but that we will also reach the target for 2020 as soon as possible. It is a state responsibility to ensure that everyone has access to the necessary connectivity, although the roll-out of broadband is in fact a market-based expansion complemented by public intervention. According to PTS, market participants' investments in fixed and mobile networks amounted to approximately SEK 12.8 billion in 2019. In particular, I would like to point out that the budget proposal for 2020 invested a total of SEK 650 million for 2020 – 2022 on a new support system for broadband roll-out. In the budget proposal for 2021, additional funds were added to the national support system, as much as SEK 1.4 billion for 2021, and an additional SEK 500 million and SEK 100 million for 2022 and 2023 respectively. This means that by 2021 PTS has been tasked with allocating nearly SEK 1.6 billion in broadband support before the end of the year. Having a good connection where you are is important. But a place where there are still major challenges when it comes to having good connections is on trains. It is therefore positive that in March and June 2020 the government invited representatives from the industry and authorities to talks in order to improve the possibility of mobile coverage on long-distance trains. Subsequently, the Government has decided to commission PTS to report efforts to improve mobile connections on long-distance trains. In the assignment, PTS shall prioritise efforts on high-traffic railway routes with a large proportion of passenger traffic in all parts of the country. The assignment will be reported to the Government Office by 19 February this year, which is quite soon. In the budget proposal for 2021 there is also SEK 50 million set aside over the next two years to promote an increased mobile connection on long-distance trains. This is very welcome. However, there are additional challenges for everyone to be able to participate in the digital community. There are still large differences in internet use, where it is mainly the oldest, as well as people with only primary education, rural housing, low income households and people born outside Sweden who are rarely users, according to the survey Swedes and the Internet 2019. The Government has therefore commissioned PTS to contribute to the availability and use of IT and electronic communications services for the elderly due to the pandemic. PTS also has the Government's mission to strengthen the development of communication solutions for people with disabilities and special needs. This is very important. In this context, the Government in 2018 commissioned the Swedish Internet Foundation to allocate a state aid of SEK 10.4 million to 15 municipalities around Sweden to establish so-called digidel centres where residents can turn to get help with digital services and technology. Digidelcenter is run by local authorities. At the moment, 23 digidel centres are in place, and more are planned. Another vulnerability exposed is security. It is very important to ensure that our digital communications and services can be carried out safely while safeguarding the privacy of users. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something about the post. While we are becoming increasingly digital, there is also a need to be able to send and receive letters and packages. For several years, the postal market has undergone a major change that is only continuing. Fewer and fewer send letters, while the number of packages increases. As there are two different regulated activities, Postnord must not allow the revenues from parcel delivery to finance the delivery of mail – the universal postal service. The Government has therefore appointed a special investigator to investigate possible financing models for the universal postal service. The aim is to clarify how the universal postal service is to be financed when it can no longer be fully self-financed. It is a large and complex task to be reported by 31 January 2023. Madam President, I would like Digitalisation should not take place for the sake of digitalisation, but because it makes life better and more sustainable for us humans. We in the Green Party want to build away the digital exclusion so that everyone who wants to have the opportunity to be part of the digital community.
i-0cf68d602531886b-780	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. Madam President, I would like The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office's review is that Arbetsförmedlingen has in several parts designed the service Support and matching, S even, so that participants are given good opportunities to get a job or start studies as quickly as possible. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that there is scope for the Swedish Public Employment Service to improve important parts of Stom, and the Swedish National Audit Office makes several important observations in its review. The Swedish Democrats think it is a good thing that the government welcomes increased cooperation with the Swedish Tax Agency to strengthen the reliability of the rating, but this is only one of several measures that need to be taken. In its analysis, the Swedish National Audit Office notes, among other things, that the Swedish Public Employment Service does carry out periodic reviews where agreements are terminated if the supplier shows insufficient results, but agreements are not terminated in delivery areas with few suppliers, even if they show poor results or have too few participants. Furthermore, the Swedish National Audit Office concludes that monitoring and monitoring of suppliers is not carried out in a way that ensures a service of high quality. For example, there are objections to how Arbetsförmedlingen prevents and monitors shortcomings in smaller suppliers. Madam President, I would like Against this background, we do not agree with the committee that the Government's general commitments regarding the observations of the National Audit Office and the direction of the reform of the Public Employment Service are sufficient. In order to achieve the objective of the Service Support and matching, we believe that the Government urgently needs to ensure that jobseekers are given access to suppliers of good quality regardless of the delivery area, that contracts with suppliers that lack quality are terminated regardless of the number of suppliers in the supply area, and that control and follow-up of suppliers is carried out in an equivalent manner regardless of the size of the suppliers. Madam President, I would like The government's and the committee's opinions refer to the government's budget proposal and the continued work on the reform of the Employment Service. There may be some understanding that the pace will stop during the current pandemic. Unfortunately, however, Madam President, the answer is, in spite of this, thin and inconclusive and clearly shows a reluctance on the part of the government to fundamentally reform the Public Employment Service. Unfortunately, there is a great risk that the reform of the agency will be delayed in various investigations like the LAS investigation, despite the strong stance of the January parties on this issue.
i-0cf68d602531886b-787	Madam President, I would like The employment agency's service Support and matching, which we are debating now, has been in operation since 2014. During the spring of 2020, the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the service to see if the effort provides the conditions for participants to get to work or start studies as quickly as possible. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that the freedom of choice system is designed so that it provides good conditions for participants in the service to get a job or start studies as soon as possible, while the Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of areas of improvement. In particular, the Swedish National Audit Office asks the Swedish Public Employment Service to ensure that control and follow-up are improved and that the Agency reviews how people with limited knowledge of Swedish should be able to access information about the suppliers. The Arbetsförmedlingen agrees with this in its reply, where the agency points out that the Swedish National Audit Office's review is an important contribution to the Arbetsförmedlingen's continuous development work. Madam President, I would like Arbetsförmedlingen also writes in its reply that, at present, both the Support and Matching Service and the new Customer Selection Service have a number of ongoing development initiatives that are in line with the recommendations of the report, while at the same time considering that the review as a whole is an important contribution to the preparation of the reform of the agency. Regarding the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to the Government on the need to collect monthly income data at individual level from the Swedish Tax Agency, the Government intends to review the possibility within the framework of the reform of the agency. Madam President, I would like We welcome this review, as in previous national audit audits, and consider it an important contribution to the reform of the agency and the further development of procured matching services. Madam President, I would like In this report we also have a follow-up motion by the Swedish Democrats, in which the Swedish Democrats highlight proposals for measures that the Swedish National Audit Office is actually targeting the Swedish Public Employment Service and not the Government. In addition, Arbetsförmedlingen in writing to the Ministry has explained well how to work with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations regarding control and follow-up of suppliers. It is a wording that I assume the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Employment are watching. I can also inform the Swedish Democrats that the government in the regulation letter for 2020 commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to ensure quality and improve control and follow-up of independent actors and the activities carried out by them. Despite this, the Swedish Democrats want the government to go in and govern in detail what is within the framework of the authority's responsibilities. This clearly shows, Madam President, the views of the Swedish Democrats on the Swedish Public Employment Service. We know that the Swedish Democrats want to close the Employment Service, but the Swedish Democrats have no answer to where the responsibility for labour market policy should lie. In their budget for 2021, the Swedish Democrats want to go further than the Moderates and Christian Democrats and sharply cut the funds for active labour market policy by SEK 7 billion, even though we are in the midst of a pandemic. Madam President, I would like I believe that one particular challenge in the Swedish labour market today is to equip and match the large group of adults who are not established in the labour market and who lack relevant education. In this situation, the Swedish Democrats want to suspend study start-up support, extra services, matching services and virtually all other measures that create pathways into the labour market for those who find it difficult to get a job. With the Swedish Democrats' budget, fewer people will be able to get help through Arbetsförmedlingen. People with a vulnerable position in the labour market will end up even further away when the Swedish Democrats do not want to invest in brokering services, subsidised employment or training for the unemployed. This clearly shows, Madam President, that the Swedish Democrats do not have a plan for getting more people to be hired or equipped to get a job. The question then is how a one-off payment of SEK 10 000 helps, when Magnus Persson at the same time wants to remove all possibilities for unemployed people to move on to the next job. Madam President, I would like Unlike the Swedish Democrats, we Social Democrats see the need for a strong labour market policy to meet the consequences of the pandemic by pursuing a policy that creates the conditions for securing jobs throughout the country. We do this through short-term lay-offs, reduced employers' contributions, conversion aid and substantial contributions to the municipalities. At the same time, we believe that it is important to pursue a policy that leads to security and opportunities for those people who find it difficult to get a job or have lost their job. Temporary increases in the level of remuneration and changes in qualification requirements in unemployment insurance have contributed to maintaining the availability of livelihoods for many and to the purchasing power of the economy. Madam President, I would like The current pandemic has hit the Swedish labour market hard, and Sweden is in the most serious crisis in the labour market in modern times. Unemployment is expected to continue to increase in 2021. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen has the potential to receive an increased number of registered job seekers. Anyone who loses their job will get the support they need to change and get a new job. Madam President, I would like In the budget proposal for 2021, the government and the cooperation parties Liberals and the Center Party have set aside funds aimed both at ensuring the work of the Public Employment Service here and now and at steering the agency in line with the direction of the reform. In order to increase the number of participants in procured matching services and to strengthen job opportunities for the unemployed and relieve the Swedish Public Employment Service in a tight position, the government has raised SEK 1 billion for 2021. Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the Moderates now seem to share the government's assessment of Arbetsförmedlingen's needs, while the Christian Democrats want to see a slightly lower level of funding. This is a different line from that agreed by the parties in the 2019 budget, when both administrative appropriations and programme funds were cut, which forced the Public Employment Service to take drastic action. 3,000 employees had to leave the agency. Those employees would have been needed today to deal with the effects of the ongoing pandemic. Although resources for the agency have increased to deal with the crisis, it takes longer to hire new employees. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe that Arbetsförmedlingen has a strategic role in society, not least now during the crisis but also when we are going to work our way out of it. That is why we need to continue to have an authority to help people face the labour market of the future. On the other hand, it has long been clear that the Employment Service needs to be reformed. The Authority has not been able to meet the needs of the unemployed who are far from the labour market or to meet employers' needs for skills. There is a broad political majority in the Swedish parliament for reform to take place. For us social democrats, securing active labour market policies and having a state authority with muscles remains central. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, jobs always come first. We know that active labour market policies are needed both for people to get to work and for employers to find the skills they need. This is how we secure both Swedish growth and resources for well-being. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-0cf68d602531886b-806	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Mr Serkan in the debate, I do not know whether he has confused the reports a little. We are here to discuss a letter from the Swedish National Audit Office regarding support and matching and not a budget proposal. We can discuss entry-level jobs and labour market interventions in any way. These results have not made any happy or led to real jobs. I'll stick to the point, which Serkan Köse seems to be having a bit of a hard time with. How do Serkan Serkan and the Social Democrats see the continued work now on the reform of the Employment Service? Do you think the outcome is getting good, or do you think we should speed up the reform? I would like to hear Mr Serkan's opinion on this matter. Or maybe Serkan Köse doesn't want us to reform Arbetsförmedlingen at all?
i-WbWkrF4oyGeSqVPCmVRAak	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Persson, for the question! It is a little strange that Magnus Persson does not want us to talk about the parts that affect the Swedish Public Employment Service, its conditions and all the parts that the Swedish Democrats want to remove in their budget options. It has an impact on the Arbetsförmedlingen but also on all the people out there. It is very important to me that we should also talk about the labour market policy of the Swedish Democrats. Magnus Persson is very interested in explaining the parts I mentioned about more resources for the Employment Service and labour market policy initiatives. It is also very important that we know what is happening to all the people in the various programmes and what the Swedish Democrats think there. Today we know that we have 186 000 people in various labour market policy programmes. You are removing SEK 7 billion from labour market policy. It is important for me on the Committee on Employment to know: what is happening? Where is that money, and where are those people? In what system are they? As I mentioned earlier, we agree in this House that the Employment Service needs to be reformed. Reform work is under way. The goal is for it to be ready by 2022.
i-0cf68d602531886b-812	Madam President, I would like We can go in and discuss labour market policy in large parts while we are standing here. The results of the government's labour market policies are rather distressing. There are 15,000 enrolled in new jobs, and 7% went to regular work. The Swedish Democrats' labour market policy is about creating regular jobs. It is about studies, apprenticeships and seeing other possibilities than going on the same track year after year that does not result in anything. In the end, however, Serkan Köse, it must be about creating regular jobs. Your policy puts people in a dependency on benefits and creates opportunities that companies use to get cheap labour. I think this is the wrong way to go. We have tried it ever since Reinfeldt's time, and the outcome has been terrible. It's time to think new and different. It is only to be regretted that the government continues to follow in the same footsteps all the time and only shoots billions after billions, and the results are equally bad. I think this is the wrong way to go. But Serkan Köse may have another answer to that question.
i-0cf68d602531886b-817	Madam President, I would like Clearly, there are a great many people who need these subsidised jobs. Research shows that it is effective action for people who are very far removed from the labour market, who have weak conditions and a weak base on the labour market in order to get a job. These measures are needed to ensure that these people are employable. I don't really understand what Magnus Persson says. As far as labour market policy programmes and interventions are concerned, you want to remove 3.2 billion. You want to remove money for fresh start jobs. You're talking about fresh start jobs. You want to remove 2.4 billion from the fresh start jobs. Counting together, you are removing 7 billion from labour market policy this year. We have 186 000 people in the labour market policy programmes. One still has to ask: What happens to those people? Is it the case that you push those people away for support from the municipalities, or are they in other measures? Where do I find the 7 billion or 186,000 people in the stakes? I don't get an answer to that. I think the Swedish Democrats owe us an answer.
i-0cf68d602531886b-821	Madam President, I would like We are examining another national audit report on the Swedish Public Employment Service, its organisation and the great need for reform. We Moderates set out our proposals and reservations on the substance of the matter with regard to the Employment Service in both the draft budget and the report on labour market policy and unemployment insurance, which we discussed in this House just a few weeks ago. Madam President, I would like I cannot help but wonder and wonder what parallel universe Mr Serkan is living in. When we discuss Arbetsförmedlingen and its organisation, it is important that we still remember a number of fundamental facts. Despite an unprecedented crisis in the labour market, the Employment Service last year returned more than SEK 6.1 billion and, in fact, EUR 8.7 billion if individual benefits are included. It is money, Madam President, that could, should and should have gone to combat unemployment and prosperity. Just giving more money to the Employment Service, Madam President, is like pouring water into a bucket full of holes. Even before the coronapandemy, Sweden had unemployment among the EU's highest, despite Stefan Lövven's promise to the contrary. Long-term unemployment was record high and unemployment among immigrants was highest in the EU. Unemployment is currently the highest in a quarter of a century, youth unemployment is the highest in 100 years and long-term unemployment and unemployment among immigrants is also record high. The fact that the Arbetsförmedlingen does not spend its money has been a recurring fact and problem throughout the time of the Red-Green Government. But 2020 actually beats all the records. We have repeatedly proposed measures to this effect over the years, both as regards the Public Employment Service itself and as regards appropriations and the waste of tax money. This says a lot about a dysfunctional authority in an extremely great need for reform. But above all, Madam President, it says a lot about the inability of both the government and the January parties to govern one of Sweden's most important authorities. Last week I put the question to the representatives of the January parties about what all this says about government and January party governance of the Authority. It was then claimed that it was a one-off incident in a year that was extreme because of the pandemic. Let us look at the facts, Madam President. The truth is that every year since the Social Democratic Government took office in 2014, the Public Employment Service has returned its excessive funding. This was done in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Once again, Madam President, the basic problems here are two: firstly, the fact that the government and the January parties obviously do not have the power to govern their own authority, and secondly, that they are more or less deliberately wasting billions each year. It is money that would have gone to combat the long-standing high level of Swedish unemployment, so that in the first-May speeches, at the central meetings now and here in the Parliament's pulpit, it can wrongly claim that billions have been spent against unemployment, money which, moreover, is only invested in administering unemployment and not in combating it, Madam President. It is clear that it will be a little difficult to have a discussion here about individual activities in relation to the Public Employment Service without in any way touching the basic problem, i.e. the government's and the authority's inability to manage the funds and, above all, the government's and the January parties' inability to control their own authority. It is an inescapable fact.
i-0cf68d602531886b-832	Madam President, I would like I can begin by informing Mats Green that we entered this crisis with 100,000 new training places – it may be important to know – 350 000 more in jobs, of which 100 000 in welfare and the lowest public debt since 1977. Up to now, with the additional crisis measures that will come, we are approaching SEK 374 billion that will be invested, both to save businesses and to ensure that people have a secure income. Mats Green talked about several things. It was very much about unemployment and that it is very high. Looking out in Europe you can see that Sweden continues to have the highest employment rate across the EU. Sweden also has the highest participation rate in the EU. This means that it is good that people are looking for a job. Looking at long-term unemployment, we can see that there we have the lowest share in the EU and are also well below the OECD average. These facts can Mats Green check out. Then most scientists but also economists, Madam President, say that in this situation, when it looks like it does with the coronap and the spread of infection, perhaps we should be a little careful about comparing countries. It is difficult to compare countries given the diversity of support measures. As regards youth unemployment, which Mats Green talked about, the education systems look different – and so on. So it's a little hard to compare. I have 20 seconds left, Madam President. Mats Green talked about the Arbetsförmedlingen having sent back money since 2014 and onwards, i.e. money savings. I want to inform Mats Green that 2006 – 2014 it was the Moderates who ruled the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Every year from 2007 to 2014, Arbetsförmedlingen returned money.
i-0cf68d602531886b-836	Madam President, I would like No, Sweden did not enter the crisis well in terms of unemployment at all. We are the only country in the EU where unemployment has increased since 2014. Long-term unemployment was record high and unemployment among newcomers was also record high, despite a long and prolonged boom, Madam President. We were uniquely ill prepared to deal with the pandemic, and it looks even worse now. In some way, the Social Democrats always want to use March 2020 as some kind of base point when discussing unemployment. Then I can inform everyone that we will use March 2020 as the base point, Madam President, all the figures and curves, regardless of the issue of society, will look good. Serkan Köse is standing here talking about 374 billion. It is, of course, money that you are investing in managing unemployment, not in combating it in any way. We all remember Stefan Lövven's promise that Sweden 2020 would have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. We were then fighting almost the highest in Europe, and we had made that journey during the Social Democratic period. I would also like to say to Serkan Köse, speaking about what he said earlier to Magnus Persson about the new start jobs: It's great that Serkan Köse is talking hot for the new start jobs. But the number of new jobs has decreased during the Social Democratic Government for a number of years. I've never heard Serkan Köse worry about that. It is a major concern, but the Social Democrats have never been interested in it. They've been down for years in a row. Why haven't you done anything about it? Once again, we need to fight unemployment and spend money on it, not spend money on administering it, Madam President.
i-0cf68d602531886b-841	Madam President, I would like A little fast: 600 000 Swedes have been granted aid. As I have just said, we have invested SEK 374 billion in total, which is about increased short-term lay-off, i.e. to ensure that people continue to have the opportunity to have both the job and have good financial opportunities, continued support for rent costs, strengthened conversion support and more. In addition to the budget presented by the government for this year, we expect to have 75 000 more jobs and increased opportunities for training and conversion. I will come back to the discussion on the saving of appropriations. Here's Mats Green very much to answer. He said that the Swedish Public Employment Service has returned funding savings every year from 2014 to 2020. I have here data with figures and statistics on what it has looked like. The financial crisis year 2008 returned EUR 8.4 billion to Arbetsförmedlingen. In 2009, also a crisis year, it was 10 billion. In 2010, continued economic crisis, Arbetsförmedlingen returned 18 billion. That's what it's been like. There are a lot of variables and explanations that it has looked like it did. These may be programmes, actions and wage subsidies. Then you have to go back to the annual report and see why they haven't spent this money. I clearly agree: if there are funds allocated, they should be used for the purpose for which they are allocated. Then you have to go back to every year to try to study and understand which factors have affected so that Arbetsförmedlingen for example 2018 sent back 18 billion. Last but not least: New start jobs are a very good effort. What needs to be remembered, however, is that new start jobs are designed in a way that means that you as an employee must find an employer who is willing to receive you, and so it is the employer who is looking for the money.
i-0cf68d602531886b-846	Madam President, I would like As far as the appropriations for the Employment Service are concerned, it is quite correct that the Alliance Government also reduced the appropriations. We were much better at combating unemployment than you were at Serkan Serkan. Moreover, during the financial crisis, unemployment in the time of the alliance government happened to be lower than it was during a very strong and prolonged boom during a red-green government. That says quite a lot, Madam President, about efficiency. We have never had the ambition to win any kind of race to invest the most in Arbetsförmedlingen's administrative grants. Once again, we do not believe in managing unemployment. We believe in fighting it. Then I would like to remind Mr Serkan of the variety of supplementary budgets and crisis packages decided by the Swedish Parliament. Most of this has actually been forced by the Moderates and other parties, from the Swedish Democrats to the Left Party, sometimes almost screaming. A lot has been agreed on, and that's great. But I also note that there has been rather limited interest, particularly on the part of the Social Democrats, in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. I also note that now is the time to start preparing to get out of the crisis and start fighting unemployment. For example, we think it is reasonable to take measures to increase skills when working in the short term, but the Social Democrats have consistently refused to make a demand on this. They have allocated a symbolic sum to it, but they have refused to impose a requirement on it. Again, the Social Democrats and the January parties are spending money on managing unemployment in the form of the Employment Service's administrative appropriations. We need to invest money in combating unemployment.
i-0cf68d602531886b-851	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say a few words, although this is not exactly the subject of the debate, about the situation on the labour market. After all, we have an extremely rapid rise in unemployment again during the second wave, one of the most dramatic developments, and it has persisted. It's a fight. It's a grief. It was previously a competition here in the pulpit between government and opposition in complaining about how the Arbetsförmedlingen has functioned historically. There is no doubt that there has been a break. I have told you about a man from Kungälv who e-mailed me and Annika Qarlsson that he had become unemployed in February and was told that he would be called to Arbetsförmedlingen in December. I hope he did. I haven't had a chance to get any feedback on that. A lot has been broken, but it should also be mentioned in these times that everyone has struggled: the job seekers, of course, but also the staff at the Employment Service, about returning money. It has not been possible to meet people physically, there have been no jobs and you have not even been able to put people into education. What the situation is now and how they have fought their way through it is partly due to the fact that they have been able to increase the number of independent intermediaries who have tried new ways. Tens of thousands of people have actually been assisted by independent intermediaries since 2019 when everyone talked about privatisation and reform of the Employment Service and the number of independent intermediaries was record low. That brings us to today's topic. What exists today and which is important to review in connection with the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen, where we will do it better and get clearly results-driven and carefully controlled independent actors who can try other ways than we have historically had in Sweden, is to look at what has been tried, among other things Support and matching – Stom, as it is called among those who work with this – and see how it has worked. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out a very good review here. Some things we already knew about the reform, others we had clarified and others we had to learn. It is a very good review that we will use. Stom has major shortcomings and needs to be improved, and I have said from the outset that it is not enough and is too little. You can say that Stom works so that it delivers when, how, where and in what way the Arbetsförmedlingen itself wants. It's kind of not a system where they can find the job seekers themselves. But despite all the shortcomings with Stom, it still delivers jobs to the job seekers even under rather poor conditions. So it has not only been bad. The report also states that there have been relatively good results. But it will be better, and then one important thing to remember is that in a system like this many choose the private or idea-based independent intermediary that you have closest to you. It is therefore extremely important for the new independent intermediaries to exist throughout the country. The report also points out what we have long said, namely that as it was designed, there were a lot of white spots, because that is how Arbetsförmedlingen worked with these actors. They were simply not required to be everywhere, as we will be doing with the reform. In addition, there were very few independent intermediaries in many places. One has a picture that there are lots of independent intermediaries who are fortune seekers, and there were quite a few in total, but there were actually only a few who helped most unemployed. We must draw conclusions from this. It is also pointed out that special incentives are needed for this, and we will also invest in this. Another thing is that rating systems are not sufficiently accessible to people. I myself have tried to understand how job seekers could choose with the old system. It was not at all clear enough how to assess the various independent intermediaries and know who to choose. You can measure how well they have succeeded with the help of the Swedish Tax Agency's monthly income data – what is called the monthly data in the usual speech – for monitoring and monitoring. Then you can see: Those were able to get people to work, and these were unable to get people to work. This, too, is a lesson that we have learned but which is reinforced by this report. At the same time, it is interesting that job seekers actually choose the best performers and show the point of the reform in a very clear way, namely that giving them the opportunity will give job seekers the chance to choose those who perform well. They also receive more performance compensation. Those who get good results grow, and it becomes a positive spiral. Those who haven't performed well do it again and do it right or withdraw, which means that the unemployed only meet better and better service – that's 20–30% better service when it comes to getting into work quickly. That is exactly what we want to achieve with the reform: a positive spiral but also carefully thought out and, as the National Audit Office asks, carefully monitored with good follow-up and proper control systems. There will then be a lot of improvement compared to the trials that have been done in the past, although Support and matching were better than the previous efforts.
i-0cf68d602531886b-864	Madam President, I would like Perhaps the somewhat dry and cumbersome classification of this matter, i.e. the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Employment Service's service Support and matching, means that one does not understand the seriousness of the larger issue that should concern the Riksdag in this context, namely the politically induced chaos of the Employment Service and the particularly serious consequences of this during the current pandemic. I will come back to that in a moment, but first of all I would like to emphasise that we in the Left Party would have liked to have proposed more concrete action on the part of the government, directly linked to this national audit report, but because of questions of interpretation concerning the legislative framework of this House it was not possible. That is why, in addition to this speech, we are developing our view in a separate opinion in the report. Madam President, I would like Today we find ourselves in a situation of a sharp increase in the number of unemployed as a more or less direct consequence of the pandemic. At the same time, it makes the situation of those who had already become unemployed before the pandemic more difficult. The number of long-term unemployed, i.e. those who have been unemployed for more than a year, is considerably higher than at the same time last year. And we know that there is an increasing risk of getting caught up in unemployment for those who are unemployed for a long time. In such times, it is very important to have an active, high-quality labour market policy. It is not labour market policy that creates new jobs or sectors, but labour market policy is society's way of taking responsibility for more people to find the right job and for more people to be better equipped for a changing working life. Instead, at this historically sensitive stage, we have a situation in which the already fragmented and injured active labour market policy is rather being phased out. We have a Social Democratic-led government which, like many other labour-market issues, allows itself to be led by its neo-liberal co-operation parties, the Center and the Liberals, on this issue. It's both tragic and irresponsible. As the Swedish National Audit Office also states in the January agreement, the Swedish Public Employment Service is to be fundamentally reformed. It stipulated that the State Employment Service should in principle become a mere supervisory and paying authority, while private actors in a new system based on the fact that what is euphemistically called the Freedom of Choice Act, LOV, manages the rung. Now, after intervention by the Left Party and the other opposition, these plans had to be changed as far as the LOV requirement is concerned. They also had to be postponed for a while. That's good, of course. If it had not happened, we would have been in much more all-encompassing chaos today. But it is still the case that the government and the cooperation parties have launched a pilot project, which hardly anyone but the closest grieving parties have asked for, in 32 municipalities concerning what is called Kundval equip and match. In the municipalities concerned, this system replaces the current LOV-based system Support and Matching, Stom. This makes a review of the Stom system particularly relevant. Against this background, there are quite fundamental problems. We note that the audit does not examine the obvious, namely how the Stom system works at all. What should have been the focus of an audit, i.e. whether it is effective for Arbetsförmedlingen to employ complementary actors or whether it is more effective to operate under the authority itself, is not affected at all. Instead, the Swedish National Audit Office's review focuses on how the work is rigged when the overall aim is to have a LOV system, thus not to design as good a labour market policy as possible. The survey points to how the Swedish Public Employment Service will be better at managing the LOV system. This means that all learning that the Swedish National Audit Office wants to improve should be done in this respect and not in relation to labour market policy objectives. The skills development that might then take place in the business, Stom, ends up in different entities, and there is no way to systematically monitor it in order to strengthen a coherent state labour market policy. Moreover, the review shows little surprise that it is difficult to make this model work reasonably in those geographical areas where the number of entrants is low. The Left Party believes that this should be seen as another reason why Chrome should not be established at all or as a LOV system. It also forced the government to make a stand following the press from the Riksdag in autumn 2019. The problems of making a theoretical start-up model for private operators work in more sparsely populated areas largely follow developments in other types of welfare services. In practice, the result is that the government's service erodes for large groups of the population. It is often most obvious where the needs are greatest. This is something that has not only been stated by the Left Party, but by many. Today I noted a leader of Helle Klein in Dagens Arbete, the industrial workers' newspaper. She writes:- M itt in the worst pandemic and the unemployment crisis, so the January parties are involved in a large-scale labour market policy experiment. The idea is not to look at people's or society's needs, but to allocate funds to private operators. It's just to agree. I might think that there is a trait of naivety in the said leaders when she writes that the Center Party must come to its senses and realise that ideological dogmatism is not what Sweden needs right now. I think that's a so-called pine order to the Center Party, but we can discuss that another time. Madam President, I would like The fact that there is a need for a more fundamental and systematic investigation of the private actors in the field of Public Employment Service is not something that the Swedish National Audit Office alone should be burdened with. The responsibility lies with the government. That is also why we would like the Riksdag to take a position on the proposal to entrust the Government with the primary task of setting up a government inquiry for this or, in the alternative, to delegate to an appropriate authority for this purpose whether it is reasonable and cost-effective to have a LOV system for support and matching at all. I take this opportunity to reiterate the appeal made in a recent article by my colleague Ulla Andersson and myself to the representatives of the government parties regarding the handling of the Employment Service in this difficult situation: Do not let the Centre and Liberals run the whole active labour market policy in the ditch. . Act responsibly and interrupt the faulty and faulty dismantling. 中 Increase the employment agency's administrative appropriations so that intermediaries can do their job for the unemployed, and use, among other things, the money that now needs to be paid back instead. 中 Take action to extend both guidance to regular studies and qualified vocational training. 中 Raise the ceiling for wage subsidies so that subsidised employment for people with disabilities can be considered in more sectors than those with the lowest wage levels. 中 Invest where we know that there is a great need for both new recruits and for people to be able to continue working, not least in care for the elderly and in health care. Ensure that it is the parties' collective model of start-up jobs that comes into place instead of getting caught up in the cooperation parties' lack of understanding of such solutions. In short, get out of the fog of the January agreement, and take on the reality of the pandemic labour market.
i-0cf68d602531886b-887	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is the only party in the Swedish parliament that believes that everything at Arbetsförmedlingen has historically worked well. We now have a debate in which everyone else is pointing out problems, shortcomings and the need to improve. But here is a party that alone holds that it was best in the past and that if we were to go back to it everything would be fine. Then it gets a little messy. Madam President, I would like The report that we are currently debating does not look at properly and explicitly states that Support and matching have worked well – it has also been looked at by the National Audit Office in other reports – but that the very system that has been established has created white spots in the country and that it needs to be corrected. In this situation, it is said that precisely the reform of the Public Employment Service, where this is a key element, should not be carried out. You want to back up the band somehow, because it will be better if it becomes as it was before. That was the first ambiguity. The second ambiguity was that one is against the introduction of new Chrome. Chromium is therefore a development of what we are now discussing, Stom with independent actors. There are many of the changes proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report, not all but many of them. Yet it is bad on the basis of the report that is being presented. Of course, it is difficult to get a report from the Swedish National Audit Office to fit in with the one and only policy of the Left Party on this issue. But somewhere can one relate to what is in the document before us and not just to making up one's own content, about sticking to reality. With regard to the coronapndemin and the enormous difficulties in fighting it, we have provided funds. It is obviously not enough, but we have provided funds for it.
i-0cf68d602531886b-892	Madam President, I would like I understand that there may be something confused for Martin Ådahl if he thinks that the Left Party thinks everything about Arbetsförmedlingen was great before. That is the opposite of what we have been saying actively and energetically for almost 15 years. The process of redeploying Arbetsförmedlingen, which accelerated not least under the Reinfeldt government, from an agency that will help people to be better equipped for a changing labour market to an authority that will mostly procure and control things, was unfortunate. We have now seen the unfortunate results gradually growing. Now they want to turn the failed stained experiments into a kind of full-scale experiment. We think that's bad. This does not mean that we think it was great in the past but that the Center Party possibly has the potential to do things even worse. With regard to what Martin Ådahl says otherwise, it is a bit bleak to stand and say that you have done a lot of things when your party has contributed strongly to getting rid of a lot of employment offices around the country so that there has been a risk of bald spots in labour market policy. It has also contributed to a panic situation in many municipalities, which says that the state must assume its responsibilities. But the state cannot do so because it has cut the appropriations and has put the Public Employment Service in this chaos situation. That is what we are discussing right now. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office says how a LOV system can be improved. But what I said in the second speaker's chair and I can repeat in this speaker's chair is that we need to see whether it is reasonable at all to have that system, not how to screw it up, but how to have things in our own direction, for example.
i-0cf68d602531886b-895	Madam President, I would like Myth formation from the only party that does not want to change politics for the better and to result-oriented activities in Arbetsförmedlingen continues. Firstly, you take no account of the report at all; you make up your own conclusions. You can even hear that in Ali Ali's line. Secondly, there is a completely unfounded claim. If Ali Esbati has been following Parliament for a long time, Madam President, it should be noted that the Centre Party has been criticising the closure of small rural offices for years. And when this happened, it created such a powerful protest against us, including from the government, that the management of the Public Employment Service was finally replaced in order for developments to change. The following letter of regulation pointed out with all its hand that the presence in rural areas in Sweden had to be restored. We will continue to follow up on this. This is not enough, as we have pointed out, after so many years of dismantling the presence in rural areas, including your support for the Social Democrats. The mythology, we can lay it down. I would like to say something more about experiments and such. Every country in the world that spends a lot of money on this, including trade unions and employers' own security organisations, uses independent intermediaries who come up with new ideas but who only get paid for results in the form of sustainable work. It'll be mostly for the toughest cases. This is working. It works in other countries, and it works in Sweden. An exception is the United States where there is no money at all to provide help to the unemployed. This is not an experiment, but we do it carefully, carefully and carefully based on, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office's report.
i-0cf68d602531886b-900	Madam President, I would like I have noted in this House and also outside on several occasions that it is common for the Center Party to be very surprised by the outcome of its own policy. This also applies to the local presence. If you cut administrative appropriations to the Public Employment Service, remove data from the Public Employment Service and put the Public Employment Service in a situation where it is unclear what to do, it will of course also be noticed on the local presence, regardless of what intentions you claim to have. Even with the new orientation of caring more about local presence, which the government and the co-operative parties were forced to do by the Riksdag, the Public Employment Service itself, now that the process is complete, says that it will still not be present in a majority of the country's municipalities. This about this. How does it work in other countries? Well, it works very badly in many of the countries that the Center Party has wanted to be inspired by. What does not work well is employment opportunities themselves. It also works badly when making sure that people can retrain to new industries. However, it works quite well for some who want to profit from this activity, and that is, after all, at the heart of the Center Party's policy. This is not only the case in this area, but it wants state resources to be channelled to individual commercial operators. I certainly believe that this system can succeed, but it would probably not be very good for labour market policy as a whole.
i-0cf68d602531886b-905	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has left a deep mark on the labour market, and nearly half a million people are unemployed. Lifedreams have been crushed, and wage envelopes have been replaced by unemployment funds and grants. Measures to get people back to work quickly will be crucial in the future. Nor did the Swedish labour market function satisfactorily before the Corona crisis. At that time we had relatively good circumstances, but the government still did not manage to overcome a broad exclusion and a high level of unemployment. Despite the government's promise of the lowest unemployment in the EU, Sweden collapsed on the list and is now one of the worst countries in terms of unemployment. However, the previous strong economic climate meant good labour market developments for natives with a good educational background, while vulnerable groups in the labour market were experiencing difficulties. This is a group that is growing and, unfortunately, will continue to grow unless decisive action is taken. According to the forecasts of the Employment Service, the labour market vulnerable – those with a low educational background, the elderly, newly arrived and disabled – are expected to reach over 300,000 people this year. The economic crisis brought about by the Coronapdemin has been widespread and has meant that people with a normal and good employment status have also been laid off, given notice or short-term leave. In this crisis, we have a changing employment service. Today, during the debate, I have tried to listen to the representatives of the January parties to try to get a picture of what is actually going on with the reform work. I understand that a great deal remains to be done. But, as I said, action to get people back to work quickly will be crucial in the future. Today's debate relates more specifically to the Employment Service's matching service, Support and Matching, which means that the jobseekers who participate choose which company or organisation to help them on the way to work. We Christian Democrats believe that a job seeker can benefit from freedom of choice if it is under control. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which was presented already in June last year, also shows the importance of high and precise requirements to become a supplier and that a supplier who is under-presiding should be excluded from the service. Within the framework of Support and Matching, the Employment Service may, after review, exclude a certain part of the suppliers, but the system as such means that suppliers who fail to match the unemployed with work or relevant training have nevertheless been able to continue to operate in the service. The rating system, which shows which suppliers have succeeded best in supporting and matching their participants, is an important part of the support and matching system and will also be part of a reformed labour market authority so that the results of suppliers are carefully measured and participants can make informed choices. High demands must be placed on anyone who wants to become a supplier – rogue operators should be kept away. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that the Swedish Public Employment Service should have access to the Swedish Tax Agency's monthly income data when calculating rating and paying compensation to suppliers, which makes sense. There are many more recommendations in the review that the government in its letter chooses to touch upon as important contributions to Arbetsförmedlingen's further development of procured matching services. However, how the recommendations have been dealt with today is still a little unclear. The whole point of the reform is that other independent actors, not Arbetsförmedlingen, should match job seekers with jobs. Lessons should of course be drawn by Support and Matching, but the government has also launched the service with almost the same name, Rusta and Match. How that service will now be further developed is perhaps even more interesting at present. Madam President, I would like The reform of the Employment Service is of course very important for the group of people who have the most difficulty getting into work. This is where the power of ideas in allowing private and non-profit performers to help in the work to support and improve the chances of work comes in. Taking advantage of all those people who today want nothing more than a job to go to, comes with a great responsibility. Therefore, the control mechanisms, the rating system and the monitoring of the quality of the system need to be constantly evaluated and improved. In this work, the Swedish National Audit Office's report is important to take with it, and I hope that those responsible now do. For the hundreds of thousands of people who are currently outside a work community and without self-sufficiency and the inclusion that a job entails, labour market policy needs to take the next step so that more people get a job to go to.
i-E4YuRyV5bZKaAhYboBiDhF	Madam President, I would like At the turn of the year, 437 000 people were unemployed, of whom 175 000 were so-called long-term unemployed. The influence of Pandemin on the Swedish labour market has been extensive. Crisises often lead to structural change, which means that the jobs that existed before the crisis may no longer exist after the crisis, while new jobs are emerging. We are already seeing it: stewards saddle up to nurses, rowers, who normally build scenes, now clear snow and ice from rooftops, and that is an increased search pressure at universities and colleges. The fact that job seekers are equipped for the jobs that arise both during the crisis and when they turn back is the major challenge of labour market policies and, unfortunately, has not worked well for a very long time. This makes the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen even more important. The Swedish National Audit Office's review reveals important conclusions that need to guide the organisation of the Swedish Public Employment Service's work in the future. Let me mention the two main conclusions. The first is that monitoring and monitoring need to be improved. Complaints need to be followed up and addressed to a greater extent than today. More suppliers who do not carry out their duties must be terminated as suppliers. The second conclusion is that rating and evaluation need to be more clearly linked to the actual outcome. One proposal is therefore that the Swedish Tax Agency's monthly income data should be used to follow up the income development of those who have received a job after completing the Söd and matching effort, and that this should then be included as a parameter in the rating of the suppliers in the system. Madam President, I would like These are sensible proposals that we will take on board in the reform of the Employment Service. A well-functioning freedom of choice is based on the fact that the individual has good information about the various options available. It should include facts on the success of the service provided by a supplier. Just as a school's results on the national exams give a picture of how well the school succeeds in its knowledge assignment, the income that the person who has received a job after having received a contribution from an actor gives a picture of how well the actor managed to create the conditions for the individual to get a job and be able to support himself. But monitoring and evaluation are not only important for individuals to make informed choices. We spend several billions a year on labour market policy, and this money is to be spent effectively on efforts that will enable more people to contribute to our common welfare by working and paying taxes. In the review, the Swedish National Audit Office has looked at suppliers in Söd and Matching, Stom, but the recommendations that should be seen in a broader perspective for us to spend our tax funds on efforts that work and give people the freedom to earn their own money. We will take this into account in the further work on the ongoing reform of the Public Employment Service. I support the committee's proposal.
