i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-0	The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, party leader and honourable members around Sweden! It is not common for the President to speak just before it is time for a party leader's debate in the Swedish Parliament. Today, I still want to do it. As you know, Parliament is halfway into its democratic anniversary. Now the big anniversary year 2021 lies ahead of us, 100 years after the first parliamentary elections held with universal and equal voting rights. It is worth paying attention, although it may of course be done with adaptation to the current situation. Today, however, I would like to talk about another anniversary, which also affects Parliament to a great extent. On January 11, 1971, 50 years and two days ago, the new one - chamber Kingdom day met for the first time. This was done in the temporary premises of the Riksdag at Sergels torg in Stockholm. This anniversary will also be highlighted in various ways throughout the year. The introduction of the Enchamber Kingdom was an event preceded by many steps on a long road. Historical changes in society are also reflected in the political system. When the two-chamber parliament was introduced by the 1866 reform of representation, it took place in the transition between an older social order and the emerging demands of democracy. Parlamentarism broke through in 1917, and already at that time the two-chamber system was a controversial issue. This was also the case in the Författningsutgningen one in the 50s, and it was discussed further in the G roundlagbere dningen in the 60s. In order to make parliamentarism clearer with a single chamber to which the government is responsible and to ensure that the outcome of the elections would have a direct and unambiguous impact without the gradual renewal of the first chamber, the decision on a one-chamber parliamentary day was passed through 1969. Gone were concepts such as the first chamber and the second chamber, reconciliation and joint voting. One might say a little simplistically that the indirectly elected first chamber disappeared and that the second directly elected chamber was expanded to 350 Members. At the same time, there was a fundamental change in the committee system, and the kind of specialist committee we know today was introduced. I would like to talk more about this, but we have an important debate ahead of us. Well, there is a writing about this anniversary. It is available on the web for everyone, and it also has m not lats to your l eda meetinger. As the ninth President of the Parliament, I hope it will offer good reading! Later this year, the Riksbank's Jubilee Fund will publish a book on the anniversary, so anyone who wants to deepen themselves will be able to do so. In total, there are 150 reasons for celebrating their democratic commitment a little extra this year. The 100 years since the breakthrough of Swedish democracy underline the importance of the tireless work of democracy itself. The 50 years that have passed since the First Chamber was introduced remind us that it is not enough to win democracy, but we must also constantly develop its forms. The importance of winning, protecting and revitalising democracy is obvious in the light of the fact that we must never take it for granted, which is something that is demonstrated not least by the unacceptable events that recently took place in the US Congress. Ladies and gentlemen! The struggle to vote at the time led to the historic breakthrough of democracy in Sweden. The reforms of the past gave us the one-chamber holiday we are now gathered in. Today's democracy gives us the opportunity and responsibility to shape both the present and our future. The first party leader debate will now be held in 2021. Thank you!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-12	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has left behind a dark year. The vaccines did in themselves that the first days of 2021 went in a more hopeful tone, but we will need to equip our country considerably stronger. I'll come back to that. I would like to begin with what happened just a few days into the new year when horrifying images came out across the world of how the Capitol in Washington was stormed by people who refused to accept the root of a democracy, namely a legitimate election result. Sock hangers interrupted Congress' work. They forced elected representatives to seek refuge and attacked American democracy because President Trump continued to spread the lie of a stolen election. This is a dark moment for America. It is a dark moment for the country that symbolises freedom and democracy for so many people. The Congress managed to re-assess and confirm the results of the elections, which in itself shows the strength of the institutions. But the attack last week also showed that one of the world's strongest democracies can be damaged by polarization, populism and extremism. Europe and Sweden need to learn from this. Here, too, are those who want to close our open societies. Of course, Sweden is not the United States, but no democracy is forever solid. Nor are we immune to polarisation and undermining credibility – nor are the Swedish people with strong faith in everything from the Tax Agency to courts immune. We have great strengths and deep roots in peoples' movements, neighbourly collaboration, local newspapers and public service. But neither are we immune to division with that in our backs. Split between groups can be attached here too. A false news can spread as a truth here too. Science and opinions can also be mixed here. An actual election result could also be undermined here in our dear country. We know this. We know that there are forces that want to undermine democracy here. There are obviously movements that want to divide the trust people have in each other and in Sweden, and we know the importance of standing on the right side of history when it actually applies. Now we need to live by it. We need to see the seriousness of our present and see our role for the future of our country. The parties we represent are very fond of, but we have a common responsibility, and that is to ensure that people trust our country's institutions – in the courts, in election results and in the authorities. We elected representatives have a common responsibility to maintain that a truth is a truth and to avoid throwing lies at our opponents just to get applause from their own ranks. Our society needs to be so strong that attacks on Swedish democracy fail. Our cohesion should be so strong that all attempts at division fall. Protecting Swedish democracy is a task that is always, always greater than our differences or party symbols. We owe it to the Swedish people to guard that. Mr President, I would like to Every person in our country should be able to trust Sweden. You should be able to trust that our country is there when you need it: when you get old, when you call the police or when you get sick. But the brutal year 2020 has shown that Swedish welfare needs to be upgraded, and that is something that needs to be done. For a long time, under several governments and various municipal governments, society has withdrawn too much. It is about emergency stocks, it is about mailboxes, it is about health centres and it is about schools. They have been dismantled to an excessive extent. It can be seen in the countryside, but it can also be seen in the high-rises. This can be seen not least in care for the elderly and in health care. Swedish welfare is fundamentally strong. But it has become weaker, Mr President. That is why I propose today that all parties now agree to create a peace of mind for Swedish elderly care and health care during this crisis. Swedish welfare will once again be our country's strong pride. We are already working to ensure that those with home care are in constant care contact. We work to strengthen the rights of the elderly by investigating a new older law. We improve the conditions for employees in care for the elderly by offering full-time service and also training on paid working hours. We protect the professional title assistant to get more people to apply for the profession. But we Social Democrats see that more is needed at all levels, especially now that the crisis is going on. My suggestions for creating peace of mind are as follows: For us to succeed in this, it requires all party leaders to assume responsibility for having a close dialogue with their representatives and party friends in regions and municipalities. I look forward to hearing what the other parties think about this. Mr President, I would like to Our country still needs a collection, that together we are doing our very best to protect life and health. Our country needs cooperation to restore Swedish care for the elderly. We elected representatives also owe it to the Swedish people to protect our country's democracy. We need to do our best for Sweden in the crisis and in the future.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-29	Mr President, I would like to We are facing a new year, a new chance to restart in a difficult situation. If we now tackle our problems, we can also seize our opportunities. And Sweden's potential is enormous. We are the small country with the big companies, the ability to innovate and the hard work. But nothing gets better by itself. If Sweden is to have a successful 20's, three things are required: problem insight, a new clear course and the power to get things done. Almost all Swedes see that the situation is serious. In Sweden, one in a thousand died because of Corona, 9 667 people to be brutally exact. There are many of us who have lost a family member. Now the Swedish strategy must change. Contagion is not stopped by serious tone at press conferences. And it does not get better when those who preach to others do not themselves live as they teach. It is incredible that no one in the government knew that the head of the Swedish Emergency Response Authority left the country in the midst of the crisis. In other countries it would have had consequences for more people than the manager on the trip. Now the vaccine is the light that shines in the dark. But if we are to cope with the greatest mass vaccination in Swedish history, we need a collective national leadership. No effort shall be spared. No time must be wasted. The failure of spring with tests must not be repeated. In Germany, England and Denmark vaccination clinics are being built in field hospitals, ice halls and football stadiums. Much more can also be done in Sweden. At best, it is an unnecessary precaution. Employers could have a key role to play. Occupational health services could contribute and vaccinate employees. The country's dentists could help. The Armed Forces could play an important role. In fact, it is incomprehensible that Sweden's ÖB itself should have to ask to make a contribution. Only the government can give the Armed Forces the task. Do it! Sweden is now one of only four EU countries that do not use digital apps for infectious detection. How is that possible in one of the world's most digitised countries? Has the government even asked any of our successful tech companies for help? Various forms of vaccine certificates could be used to start opening up society. Think outside the box! Every week, the human and economic price is rising. The government must step forward or step aside. Corona is now not Sweden's only problem. Unemployment is moving towards record levels. Outsiders are getting deeper and deeper. Not even every other woman who has immigrated from Africa and the Middle East is working. We are shaken by violence and shootings. Constantly shot, killed or killed people. The serious crime is Sweden's second pandemic. In this sense, 2020 was the deadliest year in modern Swedish history. 47 people were shot to death. The youngest was only 12 years old. Eight children died of knife attacks or shootings. And 2021 has started in the worst possible way. The father Joakim Forsberg was stabbed at an ATM on 2 January at 20 o'clock. And the man who confessed to the murder should have been locked up, because he was convicted of the murder of a 17-year-old guy but had escaped from a walk. I'm sure Stefan Löfven is just as horrified as the rest of us. But that's not enough. With power comes responsibility, that you do what is necessary, see what is going on and do something about it. If we are to stop this and reverse the trend, we need more than to say unacceptable at another press conference or these ever-new investigations. My suggestion is: do as Denmark! They have introduced double sentences for gang criminals, made it possible for wiretaps, search and anonymous witnesses. All that has been suggested by the Moderates as well. The Social Democrats say no to all that. So it matters what government a country has. Mr President, I would like to On January 6, we saw almost unthinkable images from Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. Donald Trumps's dysfunctional presidency had an unworthy end. The U.S. gets its chance to re-start in a week when Joe Biden is sworn in as president. It raises hope for a new American leadership that restores the role of the United States in climate policy and cooperation with Europe and defends the integrity of the rule of law and democracy. I also hope for leadership that breaks the irreconcilable political polarisation where people who think differently no longer even talk to each other. My fear is that the destructive climate of conversation that is there will take hold here as well. If you are not at home blind or self-confessed, you already see this development in Sweden. Those of us who are leaders in Swedish politics, regardless of their political domicile, must take this seriously. Political differences are important. But there is more that unites us Swedes than divides us, or as Nyamko Sabuni recently said: You do not win the fight for a better Sweden by isolation of your opponents of opinion, but by solving social problems for real. For me, this is important. The Moderates will continue to be the National Coalition Party in Swedish politics that respects and talks with all parties and brings together support for implementing reforms that we believe in. Mr President, I would like to The government likes to blame itself and find fault with everyone else. But I know that there are so many more of us in Sweden who now want to tackle the problems. I'll take that to heart.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-45	Mr President, I would like to We have now entered a new year. There is good reason to stress the importance of safeguarding our democratic institutions and, not least, the values that underpin them: that we respect the outcome of secured democratic elections. It is ultimately a matter of respect for people's differences of opinion. If you have this firm conviction as a yardstick, what has happened in the United States after the elections is unworthy, irresponsible and, of course, totally unacceptable. Just as important, Mr President, as the fundamental respect for people's different opinions is the right of everyone to be able to communicate these views freely. It is a huge problem with multinational digital oligarchs that control basic global information infrastructure and use the power it means to govern, based on their own interests, who may be heard and what may be said. This too is totally unacceptable. What is happening right now should be a matter of great concern to every democratic citizen of our country and the rest of the world. Mr President, I would like to The world's best school, the world's best health care, the world's best care for the elderly-- that's how it was said in the country with the highest taxes? But that's not what happened. Not least, care for the elderly has been extremely neglected on a point-by-point basis. The first interim report of the Corona Commission delivered a few weeks ago stinging and rightful criticism of the government. Many people ask, of course, how Sweden, who is the world champion at taking in taxes from its citizens, can at the same time have a situation where the security of the elderly, the sick and the most vulnerable is weakened. How can that be? The answer is politics. The answer is incomprehensible priorities. The answer is a lack of realism. Swedish governments have been watching for decades when many of the most fragile have fallen into an abyss of hopelessness and despair. It has been and still is extremely difficult to take responsibility for it. The same applies to crime. No one wants to take responsibility for the way things have turned out. Nor is the government prepared to do what is necessary to clean up gangs and organised crime. Of course, the pandemic affects and restricts much in our lives, but it does not stop crime. The number of shootings is increasing. More are being killed. Violence continues to spread. Last year, the number of shootings increased by nearly 10 per cent compared to 2019. The number of deaths increased by 12 per cent. Unfortunately, there is no vaccine against already hardened criminals. On the other hand, there are countermeasures, but that requires both resources and political will. Unfortunately, both of these components are far too often missing from the Swedish government. In another world, on the left-wing liberal planet, however, there is always for some reason a well-stocked checkout for everything you think is fine and good. IS terrorists are provided with insurance, study funds and all-gender grants. When the travel fund is over, these murderers can manage to get even more money granted directly on site in the current war zone. It's absurd. Of course, it becomes even more absurd, Mr President, in the light of the fact that, in the past year, we have had to witness new Islamic terrorist acts in our vicinity. It becomes even more absurd, Mr President, when the government is now opening up to even more or less irresponsible immigration policies. I wonder if the government can't see what's going on in this country. The need for new leadership in Sweden has probably never been greater.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-53	Mr President, I would like to It's always darkest just before dawn. This proverb well sums up the time at which we live right now, in the midst of a serious pandemic. There's more dead every day. The elderly are infected inside hospitals and nursing homes. We have overcrowded intensive care places. Operations are cancelled for both adults and children. Healthcare professionals work under indescribable pressure without time for recovery. There is still a large social spread of the virus. Companies struggle with everything they have to survive the day, be able to keep employees and avoid seeing their life's work crumble. Hundreds of thousands of people have seen their economic margins shrink during the crisis. At the same time, we can sense a dawn. Vaccines that hopefully can change a lot in our lives are now spreading around the world. We learn more about the disease every day. Now is the time for all of us to take responsibility. This applies not least to ministers, MPs and Directors-General by going ahead and acting in a way that reduces the spread of infection in society and following the advice that authorities and ourselves have so long stressed the importance of. It is also time for a more energetic leadership that acts to safeguard the health care and future of our companies and is one step ahead rather than one step behind. We in the Center Party have long run the government ahead of us. Our voice has made a difference. We pointed out at an early stage the need to change the Swedish strategy on a number of points. But even more needs to be done to stop the spread of the disease: to provide care with the resources and tools needed and to remove any possible obstacle to the successful vaccination of the entire population. Since last spring, we have pushed for a new pandemic law. When such a thing is finally in place, it is up to the government to use it offensively and effectively. At the same time, it is extremely important that companies receive compensation when the state closes down operations. We have also been a decisive force for protecting Swedish companies during the crisis. We have received support measures in place such as short-term lay-off, conversion aid, tax deferral and sickness pay liability. But that is not enough. Aid that has been decided must reach crisis firms more quickly. It is clearly far too bad that the money is delayed. There is no room for further waiting. The government must more clearly require the EU to change the rules that are claimed to slow down processes. There are no other options. Without our companies, Sweden stays. It is clear that the government should have listened and acted more quickly and effectively this autumn. But it is not too late yet to do the right thing, do more and make a difference. Let the new year be a new start for more active leadership! Do not place the responsibility elsewhere! Don't wait for someone else to act! We must continue to move forward in other areas too. We must ensure that the work of moving Sweden forward through the crisis also includes everyone. This applies to all the women and children who live trapped with a violent partner. They must find their way out of violence and oppression and into security. The Center Party has proposed stable funding for the country's women's shelters and for the National Centre for Women's Peace to provide them with security to plan long-term and save more. We have shown how legislation can be changed to put an end to lengthy custody disputes and tighten penalties for serious crimes in close relationships. I hope that both the government and the parliamentary parties can join these proposals in order to increase security for more people and ensure that the chance to have a brighter future is given to more people. Then we also need to do more to stop climate change. They haven't taken a break during the pandemic. Thanks to the Center Party, Sweden is now investing in a Swedish bioeconomy to make better use of the renewable resources available in our forests and agriculture. At New Year's there was a green deduction that makes it easier and cheaper for you and me to be climate smart. We introduce a reduction obligation to get more renewable in the tank and invest in green technology, so that Sweden can be at the forefront but also act as an example locally. Like the virus, climate change does not take into account any national borders. We must solve these challenges together. We will be an active and constructive force to reduce the spread of infection and safeguard the future of our jobs and businesses.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-64	Mr President, I would like to The Coronapandemia has hit Sweden hard. Over 9,000 people have died, and many more are suffering today from a disease we know too little about. Behind the figures is a beloved grandmother, a father, a close friend – all with dreams and experiences. Many of them had the idea that they were safe in Swedish care for the elderly. Healthcare professionals have made enormous efforts to prevent the spread of infection. Crisis agreements are activated in many regions. Developed healthcare professionals have worked 60-hour weeks without being able to take a vacation. The fact that Sweden is the country with the least number of care places in the EU has become clear. An already understaffed and slender health care has borne people's grief and frustration this year. Before Christmas, the government's own Corona Commission came up with its conclusions. Devastationous criticism is being levelled at the government. What's described is a medical scandal. Three out of four people who have died have done so in care for the elderly. The Commission notes that care for the elderly was not equipped for a pandemic and that employees were left alone to deal with the crisis situation. Where were the government and the January parties? Why is it so easy to get money and subsidies for resource-rich companies while it seems impossible to put the elderly first? In words, the government said that the elderly would be protected. But action was far from sufficient. I am not here to point the finger and claim that the Left Party has had answers to all the questions. The entire Swedish strategy will be evaluated at a later stage, and it will give us more answers. On the other hand, what we have known for a long time and which the Commission is now establishing are the major problems that have existed in the care of the elderly. There politics could have done something, and there politics can do something today. Here the government is failing in its responsibility. Firstly, the Commission points out that the high proportion of working hours in care for the elderly has increased the spread of infection. Every fourth person in care for the elderly is employed on an hourly basis. The more hourly employees there have been at a workplace, the greater the spread of infection. Sweden has the most hourly employees in elderly care throughout the Nordic region. Secondly, the number of actors has made coordination and effective governance more difficult. In Stockholm alone, there are more than 80 different private companies and actors who provide home care. The rapid crisis reports did not reach everyone. Collaboration didn't work. Thirdly, the activity is chronically underfunded and understaffed, which has made it difficult, for example, to isolate sick elderly people. This has cost human lives. The disaster described by the Commission is the impact of neoliberal policies. Sweden needs to choose a completely different path after what has happened. But reality looks like this, and the government should have known it looked like this. The fact that the existing problems in care for the elderly were not taken into account when planning and implementing the Swedish Corona strategy is an unacceptable mistake that requires political responsibility. The Left Party has been talking for decades about the needs of elderly care and their size and has repeatedly made proposals to solve them. At the first party leaders' meetings in connection with the outbreak of the pandemic, we raised the issue of the preparedness of the elderly to face this virus. On our questions we received very little response from the other parties. Now more people need to act to rearrange care for the elderly. What distinguishes a democracy is that there is a political accountability. It does not work that politicians at different levels blame each other. Someone is responsible for what happened. I assume that responsibility is taken on board. Many have lost loved ones during this pandemic year. They deserve answers. Stefan Löfven needs to find out who is responsible for the disaster in the care of the elderly. We must ensure that this never happens again.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-75	Mr President, I would like to This year's first week has been the darkest week during the pandemic for Sweden. We are now seeing the highest number of deaths since the start of the pandemic. There are now more people who die in Sweden per week than have died in Norway throughout the pandemic. At the same time, we see health care being pushed to the extreme. At Sahlgrenska Hospital, the number of iva patients has tripled in just three weeks. Operations are cancelled, even for children with cancer. Too many people have had to sacrifice too much: grandparents who will never see their grandchildren again, children who never had the chance to say goodbye. There will be wounds and sorrow in our community. This week we will pass 10,000 dead. Why has Sweden been hit so hard? The Corona Commission has replied: it is not possible to protect groups at risk and at the same time to have a high rate of infection in society. Many objected strongly when I claimed that during the spring, the government, with open eyes and intent, allowed a high rate of contamination in society. I think that criticism's stuck in my throat right now. We have lacked national leadership during the pandemic. To err is human. But leadership is not always to make perfect decisions. Leadership is to dare to break away from the path taken when you see that it no longer leads right. When the government saw how wrong it was and when Sweden stuck out so strongly already in the spring, why did they stay instead of adjusting and changing? Finally, it comes down to not wanting to lead. They wanted to duck. They wanted to delegate. I know that, because I asked them. What different scenarios are you planning for? How many are the iva spots? What endurance is there in care for the elderly? How many more can we try? How many more can we detect? How do we prepare for the second wave? All we were told was mumble. Look at Boris Johnson's actions in Britain! I hear it comes from the first bench, but it is a good example. He turned when he saw that his Corona strategy did not last and that it cost human lives. Then look at the Social Democratic leadership, at its actions and at its statements during the Christmas holiday! I cannot help but wonder: What is it in the water on Sveavägen 68 that makes Social Democratic leaders rather accept wrong than dare to admit them, even when the errors are quite obvious to the whole world, that they rather duck than change, even when it costs lives? We now have a pandemic law. It should have been initiated by the government a long time ago. Instead, it is we who have had to run the government before us through the Social Affairs Committee. We had to drag it to the well, but we can't force it to drink. The Pandemic Act only the government can use. We expect it to do this. The government has the responsibility to lead the country. As we knew that the elderly had structural problems even before the pandemic, we know that the regions have their structural problems. The government must ensure that vaccination works and that if problems arise, it will support in a subsidiary spirit and not wash its hands and then blame others. It must act. If it doesn't have the courage to act, it will resign. This government's unwillingness to change, this lack of leadership, is not only reflected in the Corona policy. We see that in criminal policy. People lose their security. Shoots and blasts can be carried out without penalty. But the government is not in front of the Adriana laws, because it's not in the JÖK. Even before the coronapandemine, the care queues were the longest we've ever seen in Sweden. Even before the coronapendem, we knew that the regions were adapted to a period of time. But the government has no agenda to change the structure of health care, because it is not in the JÖK. The government was about to fall on both labour law and migration because it did not even agree on what was actually written into the said agreement. The vaccines now begin to arrive as a completed New Year's resolution. However, once the pandemic has been pushed back, we will be left with difficult social problems. The January Agreement will remain in place. But we will need new leadership. We went to elections to be able to trust Sweden. Turns out you can't. Sweden deserves a better and a new leadership.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-87	Mr President, I would like to The American meltdown is a tragedy. The institutions certainly stood tall on the last day of the final attack. Unfortunately, however, the tragedy in the United States says a lot about the crisis of democracy and its challenges. The technology giants' platforms have undeniably created the best time for conspiracy theorists. For an open curtain, facts can be questioned, lies spread and populism grow uninhibited. How did the populist and anti-democratic in the United States actually raise 74 million votes? Reasonably even decent people made this choice. How far can polarization go without democracy dying? We must learn from this. Several other countries, including within the EU, are on the same bleak journey. Sweden also has its own fair share of populists and extremists. The legitimacy of the Parliament lies in the ability to create security and good life chances for citizens. It is about equalising the DNA lottery that, together with our growing-up conditions, lays the foundation for our lives. In the end, however, only ourselves can shape our lives by means of our own efforts and decisions. The task of politics is to give us the best possible chances, regardless of the starting point. This is the core of liberalism and credo. Mr President, I would like to Most people deal with this crisis responsibly. The state provides substantial support to companies, although more needs to be done urgently for companies, culture and civil society. Employees in health care, care and school are doing great work in this very difficult time. Where the Swedish strategy has failed, responsibility will be demanded, and changes will have to be made. We need to mourn the lives lost in the pandemic and deal with other losses that have occurred to us. Although we are still in the middle of the fight and at the beginning of vaccination, we must now raise our eyes and take a fresh look at our serious social problems. When we are looking for answers about the wide reboot that Sweden so badly needs, the Liberals have listened to the hard-working and caring community bearers. It is people who require the school to focus on knowledge and order. It will put the children who have the most difficult first while at the same time giving talent a chance to grow. It is people who want social services to intervene for those children whose parents are not capable. It is society's bearers who require high-quality care and care for all who need it. They want people with disabilities to be given support for empowerment, and this should be done through publicly functioning systems. It is people who want legal certainty to be strengthened. Grandma, Mom and your own children should not be afraid of being subjected to crime. It is people who want those who choose crime as a lifestyle to receive the relevant punishment. It is society's bearers who believe that shootings, robberies and gang crime are one of our most important social problems. It is society's bearers who want Sweden to be solidarity-based and non-naive, where aid is used effectively and immigration takes place according to the ability to properly integrate. There, Swedish demands are self-evident, and citizenship is the goal of a demanding integration process. It is also people who want us to take responsibility for the climate threat. They want us to cooperate with other countries, not least in the EU, in order to be able to change our country. It's about us doing everything we can to save our planet from an ecological disaster. It is society's bearers who know that it is not politicians but the wealth-creating forces, and not least Swedish companies, that are the basis for our welfare. Mr President, I would like to Liberals have been taking political battles for over a hundred years to protect our democratic and open society at every time. Freedom must be constantly defended. The community bearers can trust the Liberals. Today's Swedish government was not our wish government. But after a 134-day government crisis, we took our responsibility and contributed to Sweden having a government, a government with a strong liberal reform agenda. My speech underlines that, in the longer term, Sweden needs something else, not just a government that is forced to carry out one or another liberal reform, but one driven by a strong liberal vision. It's time for change when we're through the pandemic. It is time for Sweden of opportunity.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-103	Mr President, I would like to Dear Hearers! A month ago, the whole world followed the bill in the U.S. presidential election hour by hour. Every voice counts, was the message. It was a great victory for Biden. There is no doubt about it. But what has happened afterwards shows with frightening clarity that democracy is not just about counting votes in elections, because each vote counts all the time. There are those who shout the loudest, those who keep quiet, those who think they are unimportant and put the responsibility on someone else, those who are afraid, those who keep silent and let lies pass even though they know better, those who do not care, the fellow runners. All these votes and non-votes count. One of the strongest moments of my life was when I visited the Srebrenica Museum in Sarajevo just over a year ago. The war in Bosnia feels to me like just now. I remember yesterday when my children were small and the shell fire at Sarajevo was shown on my TV in the living room. In Sarajevo, I met some of my peers who were there in the war. It was when neighbors killed neighbors, when religion and ethnic origin were previously completely uninteresting people between suddenly defined who was friend or enemy and who could be murdered. On the wall of the museum was a quote written among unbearable photographs of mass graves and burned homes with burnt children's clothing and toys. That quote reads: The only thing required for evil to prevail is that good people do nothing. Mr President, I would like to Democracy is not something you mess up every four years on election day. Democracy and peaceful development mean responsibility for all citizens every day. But, of course, we political leaders have a much greater responsibility not to polarise, not to pit people against people, not to point to skin color, not to build walls and not to claim that there are simple black and white solutions to complex problems. We will show the courage to meet, cooperate, build bridges and stand up for the truth even when it is complicated. We're living in a break time. We are in the midst of a global pandemic that has put a lot of pressure on the world order. We are in the midst of a climate crisis whose consequences are becoming more and more visible every day. In addition, we have a crisis of confidence in our democracy. We in this House are the ones who have to show that democracy is the only way to build a sustainable and resilient society that holds together. I am deeply grateful to all those who have stood in the front line of this pandemic and saved lives. They have made sure that our society still works. But no gratitude in the world is enough if we are not able to act to prevent the next global disaster. If we do not put an end to unsustainable animal husbandry, if we do not put an end to the destruction of forests and seas and the spread of microplastics, chemicals, endocrine disruptors and antibiotic-resistant bacteria and, not least, if we do not stop the climate crisis, all of this together will lead to disaster. It will lead to collapse of ecosystems, new threats to peace and stability, new viruses and diseases and new threats to human health. Let us now share this responsibility for the future! Let us lift our eyes from day-to-day politics and show responsibility for a good society in which the interests of our fellow human beings, animals and future generations are safeguarded, and let us show that this responsibility can be met by politics. Mr President, I would like to This is my last party leader debate in Parliament. I would like to conclude by saying that I am so grateful for the voter's confidence and for the hard work of all my fellow Members every day. But I would also like to thank everyone else who works in the service of democracy and who gives all citizens a voice. I would like to thank everyone who is now listening to radio or watching television, for your interest in politics is absolutely essential to keep democracy alive. Your votes count.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-115	Mr President, I would like to Every reform that the government I lead has implemented since 2014 has been aimed at strengthening Sweden and strengthening people's security and trust. Every job that has been created, every new police officer and every paved road has been about building Sweden stronger. We were able to tackle this crisis with 350 000 more in work compared to 2014. 100,000 of them were in Swedish welfare. We were able to deal with this with 100,000 new training places in the Knowledgelift. Those are the right bets. But we need to do much more to seriously build Sweden stronger, build a Swedish elderly care that every person in our country knows trust in and build a democracy that can withstand attacks and attempts at division. We're a long way from here. We're going to keep going. I think most people are ready to do their bit to strengthen Swedish welfare – at municipal, regional and national level. That is why I hope that we can agree to give care to the elderly and the health care sector a peace of mind and to ensure that the money allocated to care for the elderly goes to the care of the elderly – and not to privatise in the midst of a burning crisis. To do this is a step in the right direction to build Swedish welfare stronger and to build trust and our country as a whole stronger.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-120	Mr President, I would like to Two things dominate the conversations in our country right now: Corona and the gross criminality. They worry as much but in different ways. This summer all Swedes were shaken that two boys had been tortured in a cemetery in Solna. Last week, the verdict came. The 21-year-old offender was given nine years in prison, but the 18-year-old got only five years. In the judgment, it is clear that both would have received long sentences without the so-called youth discount. The law is the law. The court is in compliance with the law. The Parliament makes it. But the youth discount for adult criminals should already have been gone. In 2018, there was a complete investigation proposal that would have entered into force just before the torture in Solna. By then both of the perpetrators had been sentenced to nine years in prison. My question to Stefan Löfven is this: why did you not present the fully completed bill?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-124	Mr President, I would like to I think, however, that Kristersson forgot an issue that is also being discussed very much now, and that is democracy and the defence of democracy. It is about standing up for democracy, not attracting those forces that want to destroy democracy and not being attracted to cooperation with that kind of force. But it's another discussion. The answer to Kristersson's question, Mr President, is that this draft law received serious criticism in the handling of referrals. There was heavy criticism from the courts, from the Prison Service and from the Prosecution Authority and others, who thought that this legislation would go too far. With such a heavy criticism by the judicial authorities against such a proposal, the government chooses to rework the proposal so that it can hear from those who will handle the legislation. That's why. I think Kristersson and I are equally concerned about making sure that crime is broken. That is why there is also a proposal in this direction, but it has been revised.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-127	Mr President, I would like to A government must know what it wants, even if referrals think the government is wrong. There will always be people in Sweden who are against removing youth discounts and removing quantity discounts. There will always be people who think that prison is wrong at all. There will always be people who think more about those who commit the crimes than about those who suffer the crimes. If the government were serious, it would have been able to come up with a completely ready-made proposal. It would have come into force before this torture took place. At that time, these people had been given long prison sentences, which had restored to a small extent those who were victims of their crime. It is cowardly for the government to hide behind referrals as if the government itself did not have an opinion. This law would have been voted through by now if you had dared.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-130	Mr President, I would like to At the time when the Moderates were also a state-supporting party, I think they had cared that the judicial authorities have strong views on a bill. But let it now be quite clear that here stands the Moderate Leader, saying that these only have their opinions; they are any. Courts and prosecutors and large parts of the judiciary – that doesn't mean much. The government knows what it wants. That is also why the government will make a proposal precisely as regards youth discounts, because they are wrong. But we are not going to do so in direct opposition to the judicial system that is going to take care of the legislation. But now we know where the Moderates stand on this issue and how to view the judiciary. I think it's boring.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-133	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of the last line shift, the idea of the so-called High School Act immediately strikes me. At that time, it was not so important what the views of the various consultative bodies and judicial bodies were, but should be implemented at all costs. Political will can also have a meaning in this context – a fairly important one. But that is not what I was going to talk about, Mr President. I was going to ask Stefan Löfven a couple of questions linked to democracy and freedom of expression. I read that Minister Ygeman spoke like this in Dagens Nyheter:中 Your right to express your opinion does not imply an obligation for others to disseminate it. That's reasonable. Today, however, we have a situation of digital cyber giants who take the right to restrict people's freedom of expression, to turn off people who have displeased views. It is about the media in Sweden, it is about the President of the United States and it is about a wide range of oppositional, conservative representatives around the world. What does Stefan Löfven have to say about this? Is that a fair order?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-137	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of the Government. Just because you think one thing does not mean that it is an unconditional right to have someone else express it. You have to take responsibility for that, both as an individual and these media. We have been discussing the problem we have in social media for a long time. What, in my view, would be an excellent opportunity for people to seek contact, disseminate knowledge, have dialogues and strengthen democracy was something else. Then we have to do something about it. The question is what conclusion is drawn from this. I believe that there is also a need for regulation of these media. We must be able to regard them as, for example, a paper magazine, where there is someone responsible for the content. That's the way we're going. I do not see that it is the big owners of these platforms that should have the decision, but we must have regulation so that we stop what we now see has led to madness in the United States.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-140	Mr President, I would like to Here is another example of the perception of reality and how to view these things. I do not buy Stefan Lövven's view that this is comparable to a newspaper. Today, social media have come to dominate political dialogue, social debate and election movements. The owners of these platforms own a basic information infrastructure. It's not a newspaper, it's a huge power. So today we have a situation in which individual companies can decide what to say and who can say things, for example in an election campaign. I myself have party friends who, on totally incomprehensible grounds, have been shut down. If it takes place in an election movement, for example, it can have an impact on the election outcome. Sure, I'm glad Stefan Löfven says this has to be regulated. However, I am afraid, Mr President, that the regulation Stefan Löfven wants to make will further restrict freedom of expression. That's not what I'm talking about. This is where we have to clean up. Here we must demand freedom of expression for the digital cyber-oligarchs.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-143	Mr President, I would like to It's a little hard to keep up with Åkesson's reasoning. I don't know what he really wants to take responsibility for. I believe that there must also be a limit to what one can say and how one can express oneself in the social media. It has to be regulated in some way. Nor do I think it is the big owners who should ultimately regulate it. Now we are discussing at EU level a Digital Service Act and a Digital Market Act which will ensure that we can regulate this in some way at European level. I think it is reasonable to do so. You have to say what you want, say some – yes, but not in all channels. If you go out on the street and say what you want, that's one thing, but it can't be a human right to untie anything in the social media. That is what leads to the situation that we have now seen in the United States. We have a similar situation in Europe, and we may well have it in Sweden. It's time to say no now, once and for all! There must be some order in the social media as well.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-145	Mr President, I would like to The strategy to protect the elderly has failed. That was the message when the Corona Commission presented its review of care for the elderly about a month ago. The Corona Commission states that the main cause of the high number of deaths among older people was the high prevalence of infection in society. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what responsibility he has for the general spread of infection and that it was so high in both spring and autumn 2020 and exactly what lessons the Prime Minister and Government have learned from this.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-147	Mr President, I would like to The authorities and experts have discussed what led Sweden to such a high spread of infection at the beginning in relation to our Nordic neighbours. Now Denmark also has a rather dramatic spread of infection. What is it that makes Ireland, which, as recently as December 2020, felt quite confident about its situation, now has a dramatic spread of infection, and that without the British mutated variant? What makes the development in Holland and Belgium different and different paces? What is it that makes Spain and Portugal, located on the Iberian Peninsula, have had two different developments in the spread of infection? You don't know why. Obviously, however, Sweden has had a stronger spread of infection. The strategy included making sure to test and track as many as we could. When the spread of infection became too large we could not track as many as we wanted, but we agreed with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions: Testing and tracking is of course an important part of this.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-149	Mr President, I would like to Now we heard a lot about the responsibility of many others and the situation of many other countries. My question, however, did not apply. My question is based on the evaluation carried out by the Corona Commission. It was presented a month ago. The Commission is very clear that it is precisely the high prevalence of infection in society that is the reason why Sweden stands out and has so many deaths in the care of the elderly. It is in itself a national tragedy. For this reason, I ask the Prime Minister: what responsibility does the Prime Minister have for the widespread spread of infection in society this spring? And what responsibility does the government now have for the contamination again raging in our society? A large number of elderly people have again been infected in hospitals and nursing homes and die in the suites of covid-19.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-151	Mr President, I would like to As Prime Minister, I have the ultimate responsibility for how the government acts. I stand up for the strategy we have chosen. I think it's right. It's still valid. We must ensure that we limit the spread of the disease as much as possible. However, I also note that the Corona Commission is not finished with all its work. There we have said before: Let us wait and see. We're in the middle of this now. When it is over, what has happened and what do the experts give us? It is already the case that countries that have had the same type of measures have had different developments in the spread of infection. Why is that? I don't have all those answers. If Annie Lööf has them, it's fine, but I can't hear that even the experts have them yet. So let us wait for this. However, I take responsibility for the handling we have in Sweden, and I stand up for it.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-155	Mr President, I would like to The Government stated early on that the purpose of the Swedish strategy was to protect the elderly. What the Corona Commission de facto stated a month ago was not really about the general spread of infection, but about what the structural problems of elderly care have led to – many hourly workers, many private actors who are completely uncoordinated and a chronic understaffing that makes it difficult to isolate, for example, sick patients. These are all facts that we have known for a long time. I can't imagine the government didn't know about this. Yet the government chose this strategy without combining it with, as the Commission says, dramatic efforts to implement it properly.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-158	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar points to what we have also pointed out for a long time: the whole of Swedish welfare needs to be strengthened. That is why, when we took office in 2014, we said we had to change the policy. We also did a good job with the Left Party, I would say, during the last parliamentary term, with, for example, contributions to care for the elderly and with support for the parties to conclude agreements to remove the involuntary part-time. We started before the pandemic a job to protect the title of nurse. We have started work to raise the level of skills throughout the care of the elderly, and we continue to allocate resources. We have started a job, where we have also received proposals from Barbro Westerholm, to ensure that all elderly people with home care have a permanent care contact. All of this, then, has begun. Are we happy? No, we have to go much further. But that's the kind of effort we need to get the world's best care for the elderly.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-160	Mr President, I would like to We have seen cuts in care for the elderly for years, and the Social Democrats have been in power for years. But it's only now that you get started on things. When the Prime Minister knows what the situation is in the care of the elderly, how can the government come forward with this strategy? The Prime Minister is now appealing to the municipalities not to reduce taxes. But, Mr President, the government is cutting taxes instead of investing in care for the elderly! The government spends four times more on tax cuts than on elderly care. What credibility does the Prime Minister have when he appeals to the municipalities to do his job? Mr President, I would like to Does the Prime Minister think it is the right priority to spend money on tax cuts rather than helping the care workers and nurses who work in the care of the elderly to save our elderly?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-163	Mr President, I would like to I think that it is absolutely right to give priority to resources for welfare, and that is exactly what we have done. We did so during the last parliamentary term together with the Left Party. It must reasonably be known to its party leaders. We allocated more resources to care for the elderly, which would correspond to the order of 5,000 employees in care for the elderly, depending on how they chose to use the money, of course. I am not saying that we are satisfied with this, but that direction has begun. I say again: before the pandemic, we had begun work on protecting the assistant title. We had started working on a permanent care contact for all those with home care, and we had started working to raise the level of competence. Isn't that enough? No, but that is the right way to go, and we must continue along that path.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-165	Mr President, I would like to The Corona Commission has undertaken its first interim report. It highlights the systemic shortcomings that have long existed in the care of the elderly. The Commission also points out that the government has the constitutional responsibility to lead the country and remedy such systematic errors. The former alliance government tried to take this responsibility. My party colleague Maria Larsson set up an investigation to identify and come up with suggestions on how the structural deficiencies of elderly care should be addressed. That investigation then identified the same problems as the Corona Commission is doing today, and it started to work on drafting reform proposals. But when the government of Löfven took office six years ago, 2014, one of the first things they did was to close the investigation. The investigators describe it as their criticism was buried in a rock room. My question is therefore: given the conclusions of the Corona Commission, does the Prime Minister regret today that he closed the Elder investigation?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-169	Mr President, I would like to For me, it is important that the elderly should feel secure, that there should be competence among the employees and that there should be enough places – not fewer places but more. When we took office, we said that we need to make a change of direction also in the area of care for the elderly. That's why we chose to close that investigation. There was a need for more resources, and we pushed them in the last parliamentary term. We need more employees in care for the elderly. We need to upgrade our skills, and that is why we started work on skills provision and skills development in the care of the elderly. We needed to protect the assistant title, so that work began during the last parliamentary term, and it is now continuing. We needed to improve medical skills in care for the elderly, and that work has also begun. We need to ensure that those who work there also have reasonably decent conditions and not shared times and involuntary part-time work. That work has begun, and we continue to do so.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-172	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister's answer is therefore that the Elder investigation, our investigation, was closed and chose not to even look at those reform proposals at all, on the grounds that their own reforms would be better. Well, then we should have seen results of it after six years with Stefan Löfven, but we have not. The senior investigators have told us that no one from the government or the department contacted them to find out what they had so far come up with in the audit. They sent their own end memos to the government because they considered their conclusions so important. I can send it over if you like. I still wonder: Why has the government not been interested in talking to the investigators? Has the Prime Minister read their memo? Has anyone in the government read it? Why did you put the proposals aside? Today we know that those proposals would probably have saved lives.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-175	Mr President, I would like to Again, we needed to change the direction of politics after eight years with a bourgeois government that did not prioritise welfare without tax cuts. That's what happened. Then we chose to change the direction of politics and also to take on board what is needed in the care of the elderly. More places are needed in care for the elderly. More people are needed in care for the elderly. They need to be given the opportunity to raise their skills. Those with home care must have a contact, not a lot of different contacts, and thus the opportunity to have a continuity in their care. We have dealt with those questions. We are pushing these questions, and they are now coming as they are in place for us to have the world's best care for the elderly. In addition, we are now providing an historic amount to strengthen care for the elderly. Then I want our parties also to agree regionally and municipally that we are now using them for elderly care and not to reduce taxes.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-178	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a number of major societal problems ahead of it once we are through the pandemic, where we can hopefully now see a light in the tunnel. We'll have to evaluate this-- there's a lot of changes that need to be made. Contingency is one thing we might want to rebuild. Migration is a big and complex issue. Here Sweden has wobbled through the years. Since the mid-1950s Sweden has had extensive immigration, but it has often been a labour migration. It's been important. It has been people who have come to Sweden and been integrated. They have contributed and built our country. We have, of course, made exceptions for refugees when the old Soviet dictatorship was attacked. We made exceptions for refugees from the war in the former Yugoslavia. Now we are faced with new legislation. Here are the strange signals from the government. The question of the Liberals is: Does the government intend to implement the proposal of the Migration Investigation, or does it intend to implement any other proposal?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-182	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, Johan Pehrson, but I do not quite understand the question. Will the government implement the proposals? Yeah, we're supposed to. We have invited the Liberals to a discussion on the drafting of the legislative proposals, but the Liberals have not wanted to be part of that discussion. From the work done here in Parliament, where all the parliamentary parties were involved, the committee could not make a unanimous proposal, but a number of points were voted on – I think there were 23 points – and one could see where there was a majority and what that majority looked like. This has landed on the government table. We are working on a referral proposal and will make sure to take that process further. So the answer is yes. We are supposed to continue and take these proposals to Parliament for a vote.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-185	Mr President, I would like to Then I'll be herbaceous for the Prime Minister. In the investigation, there was a majority, although there were certainly hopeful majorities, on some twenty points where changes are necessary to create stability in Swedish migration policy. Jumping back and forth has horrified. These things cost, of course. The last time we had a debate, the Prime Minister was willing to admit that crime, for example, is affected by too much migration if people cannot be integrated. That's the whole idea. When we Liberals talk about transparency and that we can help protect people, it is based on having a tough and necessary integration policy. Now there is an investigation, but the government has sent with a lot of other things on the consultation round. We Liberals are in favour of implementing the proposals of the Migration Investigation and nothing else. We have a budget cooperation. It is clear that opening up and making it even easier for people without asylum reasons, for example, to come to Sweden will cost money.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-190	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I share Johan Pehrson's view: The migration we should have is the number that can be integrated into our society. The important principle is what we are working from. That is why we need new long-term legislation on the ground, and that is what we are working on. In parallel, we need an EU regulatory framework that ensures that all EU Member States take equal responsibility. Then we can handle the situation. That is what has always been the strategy. Here comes this. Now there is such a proposal. I hope it can be worked through and implemented as quickly as possible. Then we have European legislation. We will have our new legislation in place at the mid-year end of this year, when it expires temporarily. With that, we should be able to have a long-term migration that is sustainable and that people feel they trust. Liberals are constantly invited to participate in discussing all the proposals. They have so far chosen not to.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-193	Mr President, I would like to A highly topical problem is our national crisis management capability. Mr Corona has once again shown that our preparedness is not good. Authorities have not had sufficient management, governance and coordination. Municipalities and regions have not received sufficient support. It took the government nine months to produce a pandemic law, although the parliament was prepared to make rapid decisions. The First Crisis Act was not used once. This spring Sweden was last on the ball when it came to extensive tests, despite an explicit national responsibility for the broad sampling. There are still no national infection detection apps. And in the autumn, the government did not know that the head of the Emergency Response Authority was in the Canary Islands, not once but two. The fact that Sweden needs a centrally located national crisis management was one of the conclusions of the Commission following the tsunami disaster. It was also set up by the Alliance government. Stefan Löfven quickly transferred responsibility to the Ministry of Justice, but there is no overview or decision-making authority. This may be practical for a government that wants to protect its boss from information and therefore from responsibility, but if it wants the country's Prime Minister to have the overall national leadership in crisis, it is only bad. If I lead the government after the next elections, we will establish a National Security Council directly under the Prime Minister. In just a few seconds we can get an answer to a really important question: Is Stefan Löfven now ready to use the experience so far and immediately transfer responsibility for the national crisis management to his own office?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-200	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Ulf Kristersson and I agree that welfare needs to be given priority in the future. There is also a need for a political consensus in order for us to be able to provide Swedish elderly care and Swedish health care with peace of mind and resources. But words are one thing and action is another. That is why I am concerned about the priorities that Moderates make in practice. Should elderly care receive more staff and better conditions, municipalities need more resources. With the option that Kristersson presents, there will be less money for the municipalities this year. For all your contributions are eaten up by tax cuts. If municipalities receive less money, please tell us how well-being will be stronger.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-203	Mr President, I would like to The municipalities don't get less money. And right now, under the coronapandemy, it is not money that is the problems of municipalities but national lack of leadership. I note that Stefan Löfven does not want to talk about crisis management. I am not surprised, because the Prime Minister has not wanted that throughout his term of office. The problem is that it is a central part of the job description of a prime minister. I also note that the Prime Minister continues to undermine the conclusions of the Corona Commission. Time and again, the Prime Minister undermines this important conclusion: It is the widespread spread of infection that has caused so many deaths also in retirement homes, private and municipal. Finally, I note that the Prime Minister now wants to stop and ban private retirement homes. Then I suggest that he call Uppsala first. In southern Uppsala 102 retirement homes are now being built by Attendo. This is happening in social democraticly governed Uppsala. I assume the Prime Minister will call and ban this today.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-207	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Kristersson does not want to answer the question. He responds very fleetingly and takes up a completely different subject than what I ask about. Here is the question: Do we need more resources for the municipalities? My opinion is yes. Municipalities also need to have peace of mind. I am opposed to changing and privatising what is municipal in the middle of the crisis and reducing taxes when more investment is needed in such municipalities. There we need to agree and send a single message to our local politicians. It is now the senior care that should be prioritised – the end of the day. This also applies in moderate-led municipalities. As far as crisis management is concerned, Kristersson and the Moderates have nothing to boast about. We took over in a situation when the country's defence was regarded as a special interest and when it was trained 400-500 police officers per year in Sweden. We've changed that. We have made sure to raise the level of defence, raise contributions to the police, strengthen the legal chain and strengthen police management with a national security strategy. It did not exist during your time, Ulf Kristersson.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-210	Mr President, I would like to If I were the Social Democratic Prime Minister, I'd be a little humble when it comes to crisis issues. From the tsunami disaster to the forest fires and the IT scandal in the Swedish Transport Agency, there is a common thread of a lack of ability to deal with crises. The answer from your government was to remove responsibility from the Prime Minister and put it further down in the government. It's irresponsible. I wonder if I should interpret the conclusion and the Prime Minister's view of privatisation as follows: If privatisation takes place in Social Democratic Uppsala, they are good. If they happen elsewhere in the country, they're bad. Answer now simple! Will Stefan Löfven today call his municipal councillor in Uppsala and stop the privatisation of Attendos 102 retirement homes in Uppsala?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-214	Mr President, I would like to The Corona Commission criticises the understaffing and under-funding of elderly care. I noticed in a previous change of line that Ulf Kristersson did not think it was important, but something else was important. But it is as the Commission says, and for my party it is very important for the staff to be able to save the elderly. The Left Party negotiated for a multimillion-dollar stake in the care of the elderly during the previous term of office. It was an additional support that meant that 4 000 more people could have worked in elderly care today, but when the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, got through a budget after the election, the extra support for staff investments in elderly care disappeared. The following year, there was a pandemic. Ulf Kristersson! Was it wise to present a budget that involved considerable savings in the care of the elderly?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-217	Mr President, I would like to Let us have an honest discussion about the Corona Commission. Perhaps we can agree to have slightly different views on what is most important but still have an honest discussion about the content. They point out that the overall conclusion is the wide spread of infection in the country. If you have a much greater spread of infection, it also affects retirement homes. The Norwegian Commission said exactly the same thing the other day: it is the smaller spread of infection in Norway that has led to fewer deaths in retirement homes, despite the fact that the number of deaths there is, on the contrary, higher in Norway than in Sweden. That is the Commission's one conclusion. The second conclusion, as the left-winger correctly points out, is structural deficiencies in the care of the elderly for a long time, some of them back to the 1990s. The reforms then have not worked. Medical competence is not in place at the right time, and there are major difficulties with staffing and recruitment as well as with the skills. All of this was also to be looked at by the Elder investigation, which Ebba Busch just mentioned with the Prime Minister. It was shut down by this government. I didn't hear the Left Party protest when it was shut down. Now it's all going to start all over again, six years later. We may have a common denominator in this matter; I would be happy to make a workshop of them in Parliament.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-222	Mr President, I would like to The Corona Commission came with very long and strong criticism with over 300 pages dealing with elderly care. I note that Ulf Kristersson does not want to talk about this, and although it is against me, I must agree with Stefan Löfven that Ulf Kristersson does not want to talk about the resources for elderly care. Where are they? After all, they are always drawn down in the moderate budgets. Not only that: the Moderates now, in the midst of a pandemic, want to introduce a second Karen Day for the care staff. We know that these days of withdrawal mean that health care personnel feel compelled to go to work even though they are ill. Thus, in the midst of a burning pandemic, the Moderates want to introduce an additional Karen Day, in addition to all the savings you make in your municipalities but also in your state budgets. What is your responsibility for the situation that we now see in the care of the elderly?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-225	Mr President, I would like to That's all wrong. We don't want that at all. On the contrary, we have been completely in favour of removing the withdrawal days temporarily throughout the coronapndemine in order not to risk anyone going to work that should not be there. The fact that carers' days are generally needed in health insurance knows everyone who knows anything about health insurance. The fact that you are against Karen's days in general also knows everyone. Turning back to the question of the Commission, I pay tribute to both of the Commission's conclusions: the widespread spread of infection caused death in retirement homes. We have major structural problems in retirement homes which we must do something about. If the government had taken hold of those things six years ago, we'd already be there. Much more is to be done, but not everything is about additional resources.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-229	Mr President, I would like to I share the moderate leader's view that crime is a scourge. There is nothing that creates so much freedom and destroys people's chances of life such as the widespread violence and the power of the gangs. It can happen widely and blindly, but the most affected are the most vulnerable. It is not enough for us to be hard-core in a pact against the gangs and push the government forward. We also need to work on prevention. That is why I was very pleased when I heard Ulf Kristersson talk before Christmas about the importance of language preschool, for example, in order to increase integration and reduce these mental ice ages, Mr President, in which people find themselves, who fatten crime and, in practice, recruit young people. How does Ulf Kristersson see other social contributions, for example to support so that it becomes cheaper for municipalities to take care of young people according to LVU, strengthen Sis and ensure that social services have resources everywhere to intervene in young people's lives?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-232	Mr President, I would like to I basically share that analysis, and I made no secret of the fact that when it comes to language pre-schools, we have borrowed– I won't say What I was trying to say in my Christmas speech was that prevention, prevention, is just as important as what you do when something has gone wrong. Therefore it must be done with the same systematics, the same accuracy, the same stubbornness. We can't just talk about some resources and some recreation. It may also be good, but it is not the core of preventive work; it is knowledge, school, preschool and parental responsibility. All these are really preventive things, and let me mention one specific is that language. It is one thing that adults who come to Sweden from other countries find it difficult to learn perfect Swedish, but I would like their children to learn really, really good Swedish so that they pass the school and then come on and get a job. It's prevention for real.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-235	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad. Much of this activity is conducted out in our municipalities, and there the governance is different. When I travel around our beautiful country, although it has been a little less of it in the past year, I often meet people who work in schools and in social services who feel a frustration. The same is true when you go out in harshly exposed areas where you meet people who work with young people so that they will have a meaningful future and not just eternal leisure time. They often say that enormous resources are needed, and then we from the Liberals have said that a powerful suburban lift would be good. After this crisis, we have a chance to turn this around, because it is rather bleak to see where it points in these vulnerable areas. At some point we have said that a Marshall plan is required, and what we have agreed on is probably a suburban lift for these areas. It's important because young people need to have a chance. If you commit a crime, you should be locked in and get a long rehabilitation.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-238	Mr President, I would like to I would like to contribute to more resources, especially if we do so at the same time as we are changing the regulations, not just more resources and unchanged regulations. I've worked a lot in social services. It is extremely competent in dealing with difficult social problems with small children – great. On the other hand, it is not at all equipped for the task of dealing with gross criminal 15-year-old boys– not at all. It is clear that responsibility should be transferred from social services so that they can focus on those children who still have traditional social measures that could help: resources and powers combined.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-240	Mr President, I would like to The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. Many large companies have understood this and set their own climate targets. Politics has been listened to, and we do not want to be left behind. In Sweden, industrial companies with the highest emissions have set ambitions that reflect Sweden's national target of reducing emissions by 63 per cent by 2030. But the politics of the Moderates, who believe themselves to be friends of the big industry, is, frankly, very perplexing. Can Ulf Kristersson explain to me why the Moderates are opposed to Sweden pushing for the EU to have as high goals as Sweden has? Why do you only want to reduce emissions at EU level by 55%? Why do you want to give European industry lower requirements than the Swedish industry? Why should the ambitions of German steel manufacturers be less than that of SSAB? In what way does it benefit Swedish industry?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-242	Mr President, I would like to We stand by the objective that we had from the beginning. We stand by the proposal put forward by the Commission. We have not changed our position at all. If we can reach that, it's a terrible big step along the way. Then I would like to add one thing. The climate crisis is one of our really big problems right now. I would like, with all due respect, to add a few more problems. I believe that the Coronapendem and the serious crime are as big a problem as our present must deal with. If politics does not prove capable of dealing with the problems that we see every day, the authority when it comes to dealing with problems that are going on for a long time and that require equal efforts will simply not be enough. I would therefore say that the climate crisis is one of the major problems of our time. I want to add corona and criminality to give a more accurate picture.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-245	Mr President, I would like to Now it is the case that the entire scientific community in the world, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, yes, everyone is pointing out that it is now that we can do something about the climate crisis that otherwise affects all future generations. That is the perspective that makes us have to act now. The Moderates tend to think it is bad that Sweden and Swedish industry should take the lead in environmental work with more ambitious goals than the rest of the world. Now it is strange because you have supported the Swedish climate law, but at the same time you want less ambitious targets at European level. It doesn't make any sense. When others want to follow, you still want to slow down. When the European Parliament supports minus 60%, you still want Sweden at Council level to fight for minus 55% instead of 60% or 65%, which corresponds to the Swedish targets. This is completely incomprehensible. In what way does it benefit Swedish industry, and in what way does it benefit climate change?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-248	Mr President, I would like to We stand by the agreement we have reached. It is also the European Commission that is behind it and it has the power to implement it. When it comes to here and now, Swedish companies have good opportunities to become world leaders in order to become fossil-free. It requires electrification, and it requires pure electricity. Anyone who is now rapidly decommissioning Swedish nuclear power reduces the availability of the world's cleanest electricity mix and risks having to import dirty electricity. That is not an example.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-251	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister began his speech in the debate by talking about polarisation and fragmentation. I think I'm telling the Prime Minister right when he said that polarization and division can take hold here too. Then, of course, Mr President, I wonder what stone the Prime Minister has lived in in recent years or even in recent decades. Sweden is today more divided and polarized than in a very long time, probably more than ever at least in modern times. This is not because, Mr President, people in our country have different opinions from Stefan Löfven, although one can get that impression when Stefan Löfven talks, but it is because of politics, poor priorities and the government's lack of perception of reality or at least a perception of reality that many people in our country do not recognize. That's why our country is breaking up. Our country is divided and polarized because there is a complete lack of humility in the government in the face of other people's views that are not in line with those of the government. A completely irresponsible migration policy has been pursued for decades. Stefan Löfven has not been an exception until at least 2015. This combined with an undemanding integration policy, I would like to sum up as a policy of division, as it leads to segregation and division. A toothless and naive justice policy leads to a loss of confidence in the rule of law and society at large, and it creates fragmentation and polarisation. There will be completely incomprehensible political priorities, which mean that people in our country who have worked and worked in a whole life and paid taxes will not get what they are reasonably entitled to in the autumn of age, while people who have just come here and have never contributed anything get lots. It creates fragmentation and polarization.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-255	Mr President, I would like to It becomes very strong when the Swedish Democrats and Åkesson talk about the pensioners when he himself is involved in introducing a job tax deduction that makes pensioners pay more tax. I noted that Jimmie Åkesson distanced herself from what happened in Washington last week: no matter what you think about the election outcome, democracy should be protected. Pretty much. It is now the case that democracy is not primarily protected by the police and the riot ceiling; it is about words, actions and leadership. Select page and prepare for battle, you could read on SD's official Twitter account last week. This means war in parliament and in the upcoming election movement," Åkesson wrote in October. To say before followers and voters that there will be war in Parliament is not really the language of democracy. In this, Jimmie Åkesson differs among the other party leaders. I wonder if Jimmie Åkesson thinks it is right to use that kind of rhetoric?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-260	Mr President, I would like to The old – – – Up to battle – – – – – The last battle it is. ..................................................... I am quite sure, Mr President, that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven sings this at least once a year in connection with May Day. Sweep clean in front of your own door, Stefan Löfven. I'm probably the leader of the party-- maybe it's not a merit-- that has historically represented a party that's lost the most elections ever. I have never started anything or questioned those election results. I'm not a problem. Stefan Löfven has won two consecutive elections, and he has made this country more insecure, more fragmented and more polarised than ever. Stefan Löfven is a problem.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-264	Mr President, I would like to Åkesson maintains that it would have been better for the United States and the world if the President of the United States had gained renewed confidence. The nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize remains from the Swedish Democrats, despite the events at K apitolium. Although, with Jimmie Åkesson's own words, the President lacks many of the qualities that we normally regard as belonging to humanity, he should have won, says Jimmie Åkesson. This cannot be interpreted in any other way than a defence of Trumps's hateful rhetoric and the extreme polarisation of society that his presidency has actually led to. It is a total contempt for democracy. Politics is based on values, and politics is manifested in action. This also applies to Sweden.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-266	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven said earlier in his speech that we should avoid throwing lies at our opponents. Reasonably, one might think that a politician – especially a prime minister and head of government in our country – should not in every debate try to misinterpret and misinterpret what the political opponent says. But Stefan Löfven is a Swedish master at interpreting and lying about what others have said. I do not believe that neither American society nor that part of the world, especially our part of the world, which is strongly influenced by American society, benefit from a left-wing liberal policy that wants to increase immigration, allow more illegal immigration, decriminalise illegal immigration or pursue in various ways a completely absurd environmental policy that will cost trillions. That's what I'm talking about, not about an individual.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-269	Mr President, I would like to Pandemin is hitting our Swedish companies hard. One sector that is particularly vulnerable is the restaurant industry. According to the trade association Visita, at least 50 000 people have been affected by notice and redundancies. Many restaurateurs have seen their life's work crumble. In the midst of this crisis, Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats want to raise the restaurant VAT by almost SEK 14 billion. According to the Swedish Democrats' own budget motion last autumn, this would enter into force now from the turn of the year. In exactly what way does Jimmie Åkesson think he protects Swedish jobs and companies by raising taxes by 14 billion for one of the most affected industries in the midst of a burning crisis? How can the Swedish Democrats be so deaf to companies' cries for help?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-272	Mr President, I would like to Now it's not quite that simple. A budget is not just an item, it is a matter of several different things. We have put forward a wide range of proposals that make it cheaper for people to consume. I will honestly say that I do not believe that this particular matter is of great importance. When Annie Lööf talks about the bar VAT and at the same time connects it to jobs and the labour market, I think Annie Lööf can answer what happened to Annie Lööf's own policy when you lowered the bar VAT. How many jobs did it really create? It didn't create any jobs at all, I say. That is not what is fundamental, certainly not, in the pandemic that we are currently living under. It is about people's ability – physical opportunity – to consume at all, to go to a restaurant at all. As long as people can't go to a restaurant, I don't understand what it matters how the restaurant moms are designed.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-274	Mr President, I would like to It is a very interesting statement from Jimmie Åkesson that he does not see the value of reduced costs for small businesses, that he does not see the value of reduced costs at all, that it does not matter for job creation. Of course it does. It is also interesting that Jimmie Åkesson mentions the so-called helicopter money. It is a general and rather ineffective grant policy that costs 82 billion and, rather, brings to mind the helicopter robbery. The reduction in employers' contributions that the Swedish Democrats also have in their budget is temporary and temporary, but the increase in VAT of 14 billion is permanent. But now that was not the issue, my question is about how the Swedish Democrats think that all hard-working small businessmen in rural and urban areas get better off with an increased tax of 14 billion. After all, the 14 billion are paying these small businesses into the cash register. This is in the midst of a burning crisis. It's not responsible, Jimmie Åkesson. It is openly contempt for Sweden's small companies – throughout the country.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-278	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's small businesses and other hard-working entrepreneurs around the country are better off by reducing employers' contributions and, above all, removing the general wage contribution, reducing sickness pay liability, making a long list of measures that are actually being asked for. Most small businesses in this country do not demand lower bar VAT, and lower bar VAT is not primarily aimed at reducing the costs of the individual company. I mean, the sex moms are lowering the cost of whoever pays for the food, that is, for me and Annie Lööf when we go out to eat. Then one might ask: Has food become cheaper so that demand has been stimulated since the government that Annie Lööf was part of lowered bar VAT? No, it doesn't. Has it created more jobs? No, it hasn't. That is the problem here – that the Alliance Government reduced VAT. We want to restore it because it was an ineffective measure. But our investments in small and medium-sized enterprises cannot be called into question.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-283	Mr President, I would like to At the heart of the Corona crisis is elderly care. The vast majority of those who died lived in retirement homes or had home help. Each individual case is a human — someone's beloved, a grandmother, or a grandfather. Many have died alone without a relative at their side. Last week, the Left Party tabled a proposal in the Committee on Finance for a multi-billion-dollar investment in the care of the elderly to increase staffing and the number of permanent posts in order to save more people in the care of the elderly during the pandemic. The Swedish democrats voted against the proposal and thus stopped this major investment in care for the elderly. It sounds very much from the Swedish Democrats, but in action there are always more and more reductions in elderly care. Jimmie Åkesson! How can you defend the fact that the Swedish Democrats in the middle of a Corona crisis are stopping the proposal for more money for elderly care?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-287	Mr President, I would like to More money for care for the elderly has probably been proposed in every budget we put forward in this House. I think it is very important for municipalities to have more resources to prioritise care for the elderly. As Nooshi Dadgostar rightly pointed out in a previous shift of lines, it is often the elderly care that folds when you get savings and savings requirements in the municipality, and that is an enormous problem. But the solution right now may not be to hire even more people in the care of the elderly. The problem during the pandemic has been to get people who do not know Swedish to follow basic hygiene practices. The problem has been far too large a turnover of staff. The problem has been a lack of healthcare skills in municipal care for the elderly. That is the problem here, and it is not solved by the proposal put forward by the Left Party. I can also say that we should spend a lot of money on everything that's good and nice. But it has to do some good, otherwise there's no point in it.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-291	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats say what they say in all the municipalities they govern: It doesn't matter with money. We don't need any more resources. Only everyone else is valiant with more resources. The elderly care should do a lot of other things but not have the resources. In all the municipalities that Sweden's democrats are involved in controlling – Bromölla, Hörby, Sölvesborg, Bjuv– there are reductions, reductions and reductions in elderly care. The warm food of the elderly is replaced by cold food. You're removing the night crew. You sell out municipal retirement homes to contract bad private people who are known for neglect and impaired job security. This takes place in the municipality after the municipality that the Swedish Democrats are involved in governing. What has happened now is that the Swedish Democrats have stopped a multi-billion dollar investment in elderly care that would have led to more employees and more saved elderly people. Why was it so important to stop that bet?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-294	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Swedish democrats have never had the power in this country. It has certainly not been in the formal sense of the Left Party either, but it has had an enormous influence on politics, not least during the periods when we had a Social Democratic government. Then it is a little surprising that, despite the fantastic policy of the Left Party, the elderly are as affected as it is and as neglected as it is. I have no responsibility for that. It has reasonably the Left Party and the governments and governments' support parties that have shaped the elderly care that we have in Sweden today, not me. I can only regret this. Year after year, I have pointed out a wide range of shortcomings in the care of the elderly, not least linked to resource needs. But what Nooshi Dadgostar is addressing here is about providing additional resources now. I have no problem with that, but it is not primarily about providing resources. It is about long-term resolution of the structural problems that exist in the care of the elderly and which have caused so many people to die prematurely, probably unnecessarily.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-297	Mr President, I would like to This last one was a little Alice in Wonderland. I thought I'd talk about polarization first. It is important that we counteract it and that we solve real problems, because what breeds extremism in every way is that people feel that nothing happens to fundamental social problems. But, Mr President, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats have settled together many times. They work together in the Finance Committee to come up with their own budgets, not least to Sweden's regions and municipalities with the public. You're working together, aren't you? Now it sounds like you are not doing anything together, but the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are actually working together in Parliament today. However, my question to Jimmie Åkesson relates to the fact that we are going to solve problems. Sweden needs to invest in digitalisation after the crisis. We need to focus on the jobs. We must have an unprecedented integration effort. Then you have to be smart about tax money by reducing taxes on businesses and reducing taxes on jobs. But Jimmie Åkesson wants it to rain money. We heard here before that 82 billion will be poured out to all people, regardless of income. Is it smart to use the money that way?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-302	Mr President, I would like to I think so. Otherwise, we would not have tabled that proposal. That is, of course, because we have an exceptional situation. Throughout this crisis, everyone has talked about the need to take extraordinary measures to restart Sweden. What, then, are all these extraordinary measures? Well, it's a new job tax deduction, and it's a reduced employer's contribution. That's the usual. The old points are grazed on the wish lists of the old parties. This is not a start for Sweden when we are going to restart the economy or society. A tearing-off for Sweden could be, for example, that every citizen of our country receives a sum of money to be able to go out and consume. Put it on ten thousand bucks! Shop in your local restaurant or shop! And so on to save the companies and save the jobs. I am absolutely convinced that it is far more effective than long-term structural measures, as all the other parties in this House have proposed. They solve things in the long run, sure, but not here and now when we need a tear-off.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-306	Mr President, I would like to Liberals reserve the right to believe that we have to work in a structured and long-term manner, and this requires a reduction in taxes for companies, not least small companies. This is the way forward: to ensure that we have corporate taxation and taxation on employee stock options that make people dare to invest and invest in Sweden. It's really important with bicycle dealers, jeans dealers and country dealers, for that matter. But it is also important that the big companies, the new tech companies, can emerge. We're gonna have more Spotify and Klarna. This requires a focus on reduced taxes in order for them to invest in Sweden, but also, of course, that we have a world-class education. I think we can use our resources much better than to give Jimmie Åkesson and Johan Pehrson 10 000 kronor was to do what we want, maybe go shopping in a restaurant on Drottninggatan. This is also important, but it does not help if you at the same time raise VAT, which was discussed earlier.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-309	Madam President, I would like I guess the last one was a logical hill change, but let's drop it. We can do it later. These are, once again, structural proposals. I buy a lot of them. Of course we need a better business environment. It is clear that we need to reduce the costs for companies to hire and operate. I'll buy this. But that is not what will really restart the economy. It is said that, as a re-starting measure, people's taxes, such as those on low incomes, are indeed being reduced. It's great that people get a few hundred extras a month, but it's not something that reboots the economy. Long-term measures are certainly good, but there is nothing to restart the economy. I still say this: the Swedish Democrats are the only party in the Swedish parliament that has really put forward a re-starting budget, with a real re-start proposal. There may be differences of opinion as to whether this is effective or not. But the fact is, and it also shows economic science, that money obtained in this way tends to spend to a greater extent than saving. That is why I think this is much better in the short term, as a re-starting measure, but in the long term we should not scatter money over people – that goes without saying.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-313	Madam President, I would like The other day I listened to Jimmie Åkesson, who said he would probably prefer Trump as president, despite Trumps's refusal to acknowledge the election result and his incitement to the storming of the US Congress, when his followers put up a gallows outside the building and chanted that they wanted to hang the vice president, as Trump pointed out as a betrayer. The reason Jimmie Åkesson preferred Trump would be that he was still closer to the conservative ideas that SD feels at home with. Now I wonder: What conservative ideas? Is that the resistance to abortion? Is it withdrawing from the Paris Agreement? Is that climate denial? Is that tearing up health insurance for everyone? Is that calling media fake news? What ideas are so good that Åkesson thinks you can overlook what has happened in the last few days?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-315	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I find this a bit remarkable. I am happy to answer that, and if you are genuinely interested in what I think you can read on my Facebook page, for example. There I have been quite detailed about these things. But this is a bit remarkable, I think. We have two government parties, and the party leaders of both government parties have stood in this pulpit and asked for a reply to me. Both want to talk about completely different things than those related to their own failures. Both want to talk about problems in a completely different part of the world, somewhere else. I honestly believe, Madam President, that the voters in Sweden expect instead to deal with their own responsibilities and the problems they have created themselves. People are being shot on the streets of Sweden today. Children are raped, robbed and humiliated. People die in care queues because they do not have time for the care they need. And here are both government parties and choose to talk about an election across the Atlantic. I think it is completely disproportionate and strange.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-318	Madam President, I would like I noted that Jimmie Åkesson devoted considerable speaking time to talking about Trumps and other opinioners' rights to freely convey misinformation on Twitter. At the same time, Jimmie Åkesson himself has said that he wants to close down P3, which he thinks is a shit channel. The former MP Linus Bylund, who called journalists the enemies of the nation, put you in the Swedish Radio and SVT ownership foundation last year. We know that undermining free media and factual facts can spread and act as a spark for this kind of riot and undermine confidence in democracy. I wonder what responsibility Jimmie Åkesson feels to stop the dissemination of disinformation from his own parliamentary group, which has also tweeted further disinformation. What responsibility does Jimmie Åkesson, as leader of one of the major opposition parties, know to protect the free media?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-320	Madam President, I would like One: Opinions that do not correspond with Isabella Lövins, the Green Party or the Social Democrats are not always disinformation. This is an important point. Two: Where was Isabella Lövin and her environmental party and government when, for example, leftists tried to storm the White House this summer, or when leftists occupied the Senate a few years ago when a new judge was to be sworn into the Supreme Court in the United States? Where was Isabella Lövin's indignation then? It is such a total hypocrisy in this debate that it is not believed to be true. In what way can we talk about free media when individual multinational companies and business leaders in a completely different part of the world can shut down a Swedish web magazine? It is strange that the government does not react more strongly to this. This is not done for it does not happen to them; it happens to us.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-323	Madam President, I would like The events in Washington last week show what is hidden in the well-cut rhetoric of xenophobic populism: violence, hatred and contempt for democracy and open society. This movement also exists in Sweden, and you mean what you say. That's why it's so serious when political leaders like Jimmie Åkesson, despite the attack on Capitol Hill, can't completely distance themselves from Donald Trumps's presidency. Let us not pretend that we do not see and do not understand this. Let us never silence in the fight for a decent, open and democratic society. It is incredibly important not to be silent, not to be neutral, not to take a stand but instead to stand up clearly for the rule of law and democracy, against aggressive right-wing populists. In addition to the most fundamental thing, to protect liberal democracy, we must also ensure that Sweden is removed from the coronapandemia, do everything we can to limit the spread of infection and save lives, use the pandemic law effectively and aggressively, protect our groups at risk and vaccinate as many as possible as quickly as possible. We must ensure that our companies survive the crisis and receive the support they are entitled to, here and now, and to save people's jobs. All of this requires decisive, clear leadership – that we become more people who take the initiative to be one step ahead rather than one step behind. There is still time for improvement, even if it is scarce. It is time to look forward, get through the crisis, protect the rule of law and defend liberal democracy – not be neutral or quiet, but build a strong, green and enterprising Sweden for a brighter future.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-327	Madam President, I would like The Corona Commission strongly criticises the weak employment protection of elderly workers. The fact that so many people have hourly employment in home care and in retirement homes has led to a worsening of the spread of infection. More elderly people may have died because the protection was too weak. It is difficult to get sick when you are insecure, and more people need to visit the elderly rather than a smaller number of permanent employees. Everyone who has followed Swedish politics knows that Annie Lööf's heart is to reduce employment security for Sweden's employees. The Commission has the absolute strongest demand on this particular point. They call on the government to ensure that employers improve job security and continuity in the care of the elderly.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-331	Madam President, I would like What Nooshi Dadgostar lifted up is absolutely central. We do not just want to make progress, but we have already done so. More permanent employment in care for the elderly is extremely important. For this reason, together with the Government, we have carried out a care lift that means that we are investing specific money to ensure that, for example, nurses and nurses are given permanent employment. It is an extremely important part of valuing the professions but also of investing in them to increase security, both in the care of the elderly and for them as individuals. Another important part is about career steps in health care. This is also an area we are working on. It should be possible to further educate both nurses and nurses. There, too, money is being invested. And here it is a joint responsibility from the Riksdag but also from regions and municipalities that are employers to give employees the best possible conditions.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-334	Madam President, I would like I note that Annie Lööf does not, in one word, touch on what the party stands for, namely to reduce job security. After all, the whole issue of the Employment Protection Act has been about reducing people's security at work, which is the heart of the Center Party. This has now led to an increase in the spread of infection in the care of the elderly. But I do not hear any self-criticism from the Center Party, which I think is very serious. Are you going to continue with this policy? We also know that overcrowding may have played a role in the spread of infection. Many people in one apartment make it difficult to keep their distance. This may have led to more people getting the infection and more people working in the nursing professions may have been infected. Nevertheless, the Center Party intends to come forward with proposals to significantly increase the rents of people living in rental properties in Sweden today. Is that the way forward for Sweden, Annie Lööf?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-337	Madam President, I would like In fact, I answered the question in the first line. Then maybe that's not the answer Nooshi Dadgostar wanted to hear. But I can also respond to what concerns labour law and the negotiations that we have had on LAS. What the parties have now landed in means precisely that the temporary carers also benefit from important skills development and conversion. That is also why the trade union Kommunal has supported this and thinks it is important. This also means that temporary and temporary contracts cannot be used for too long, but must be offered permanent employment in the past. It is also an important part of the negotiations that the parties have had and that we are now going to carry out together with the government. It is about creating flexibility for small businesses, but also about increasing the security and transition of the country's employees.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-340	Madam President, I would like In recent years, Swedish politics has increasingly crystallized two different lines of view on forestry and green industries. On one side are the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, who want the state to offer more opportunities to own and use a piece of forest and who see bioenergy as an important part of the climate work. On the other side is the Red-Green Government, which has received an investigation that wants to ban the use of forest to a value of 225 billion. Every sixth job in the forestry industry is threatened, while only a few weeks ago in this House it was not excluded from approving the EU classification of bioenergy as a non-sustainable type of energy. My question, Madam President, to Annie Lööf is whether she will support this government, even if it goes on with its forest line, or whether she will join the bourgeois line.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-344	Madam President, I would like I welcome the awakening of Ebba Busch on forestry and green industries. These are issues that the Center Party has been pushing for decades. We stand up for an offensive forestry policy where we usually do not consume. We have fought, often alone, within the framework of alliance governments but also at European level. We have stood up for the need to use the forest, to get the bioeconomy going, to get more biofuels into the tank and to actually use without consuming. This is a fundamental part where we work with both freedom and responsibility in forestry policy. We have also, together with the government, got in place the strengthened ownership rights in the forest. I am aware of the proposals that have been put on the table. They will not be implemented. This was one of the most important points for the Center Party in the January Agreement, and it will be delivered on. Ownership will be strengthened, forestry will be developed and we will make increased withdrawals from the Swedish forest to change in green direction.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-347	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of the Centre Party's commitment to the forestry industry. We also have that commitment, although there may be more from us about, for example, care for the elderly and health care. But it is precisely because I am aware of your commitment to the forestry industry that I ask the question, because I am genuinely amazed at why the Center Party has not provided sufficient guarantees that the government will not continue with this hostile policy for Swedish forestry and the green industries. Annie Lööf's own spokesperson on these issues believes that the government has proven unwilling to act to protect the Swedish forest industry. And this investigation has been developed that threatens forest to a value of 225 billion. I wonder where the line is, because last week and this week it has been unclear from the government. Will you ensure that this is stopped by the red-greens?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-350	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has achieved an extremely important point in the January agreement. It was about stopping the inventory of key biotopes. It was about strengthening ownership of the forest. It was about landowners getting compensation. All these parts have been heard in the media about but have also driven offensive proposals in the Riksdag about. We also got the government to set up the investigation into this. We will only support and implement proposals that go in this direction. We will not be helping to go against the January agreement, and I am one of those who only negotiate once. These are clear benefits for Swedish forestry policy and for the Center Party. The government will also have to deliver on that.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-353	Madam President, I would like We have now been told both by the government and by the bourgeois parties that they understand the suffering caused by the disaster in the care of the elderly. But why is no one prepared to do anything about it? Why isn't anything happening now? Being prepared for future crises must mean that care and care in all our cities and communities are so robust that they have the ability to deal with unforeseen events, such as a pandemic, with high staffing, permanent staff and fewer performers. Working from home did not work for the health and social care staff, who, in the midst of the pandemic, had to go on crowded buses, subways and trams. Too few elderly workers made crisis management extremely difficult. The elderly died without a close relative at their side. Staff had to fight for protective equipment themselves. With fear of the life and health of one's own family, many continued to go to work. The government and the January parties have repeatedly said no to the Left Party's proposals for solutions to these problems. So what did the government do? What was done to prevent the care staff from getting infected on their way to and from work? What was done to overcome the coordination problems that arise when there are so many private performers? What resources were provided for staffing to be high enough to isolate infected carers? What was done to ensure that both health care professionals are given the right protective equipment? What was done to reduce the number of fixed-term employees? Older people are still infected at our retirement homes today. There are still cuts to health care and care. Now it takes action to prevent something similar from happening again in Sweden.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-358	Madam President, I would like Some of the worst crimes against humanity in modern times have been committed by communist regimes. Millions of people have been killed, tortured, imprisoned and persecuted. Despite the dark history of Communism, some leftists seem to find it difficult to distance themselves. Representatives celebrate dictatorships such as Venezuela, are regularly held manifestations in favour of the dictatorship of Cuba, and many members openly call themselves communists. With this as a background, it was therefore interesting when Nooshi Dadgostar in Ekot's Saturday interview in P1 was asked what she thought about communism. She replied that she did not call herself a Communist but a Left Partyist. However, she could not give a single example of something wrong with Communism. So I was going to give Nooshi Dadgostar another chance after the public service channel's question: What's wrong with communism?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-362	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry that Annie Lööf chooses to misinterpret my interview reply so much. It was in no way that I could not explain it. I was very clear. I joined the Left Party long after the Left Party left behind such political ideas and fantasies. I agreed because I stand up for human rights, freedom of expression and all the important foundations of a democratic country. I will always stand up for them, both in Sweden and all over the world. I think Annie Lööf should be happy about that.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-365	Madam President, I would like Although the Left Party has left it behind, this legacy still seems to be a sensitive subject. In my world, it's a pretty simple question. In Ekot's Saturday interview, an open question was asked, but I still do not hear in the answer from Nooshi Dadgostar what was wrong with Communism. She didn't answer the interview, and she's not answering now either. Nevertheless, there are a number of representatives of the Left Party who designate themselves as Communists. If Nooshi Dadgostar thinks it is wrong with communism, what does she think about other representatives of the party openly calling themselves communists?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-368	Madam President, I would like It's a reality statement I don't agree with. This has left the Left Party behind a long time ago, and I joined the party long after that. As I said clearly, I will never accept restrictions on freedom of expression and human rights. That's why I've joined the Left Party. I know that the half million people who vote for the Left Party think the same, and that is why they are voting for us. I think that we should show respect for the large number of people who today vote for the party because they want greater spending on welfare, on security at work, on increased housing construction and on better climate policy. This is what the Left Party stands for, and I think Annie Lööf should show that it is good that we agree on these issues.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-373	Madam President, I would like I want to hang on to this old-age thing. The pandemic requires us to change our view of the care of our most fragile elderly. Liberals think it should be hired doctors in the care sector. Is that something that the Left Party would like to support? If we are to achieve a good quality of care and resources to pay good wages, further train and pay for the elderly care lift that Liberals are involved in carrying out, we need a good supply of tax money. An important part of this is Swedish industry. How does the Left Party see that today we have a big problem with supplying large parts of Sweden with electricity? We have production but lack of capacity and lack of impact, and this leads to fewer investments.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-377	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Johan Pehrson raises the issue of care for the elderly. I fully agree with the Corona Commission's conclusion that we need to invest more in training for elderly care staff. Working with elderly people and dementia is not an easy job. We believe that the municipalities should be given additional powers to employ, for example. This one should look at. When it comes to Swedish industry, the Left Party will never implement a policy that in any way threatens these jobs and what important Swedish industry does. Our country is built on industry, forests, steel and hydropower. In order for Sweden not to get stuck in the obsolescence and far too expensive electricity, we will want to invest in renewable energy, because that is the future. In this way, we can also maintain industry in the long term in Sweden. This is an important issue for the Left Party.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-381	Madam President, I would like It's a good entrance, Nooshi Dadgostar. Both during and after the pandemic, electrification and automation together with climate-smart electricity generation are central to the Liberals. If Sweden is to be able to pay for its electric roads, switch, take the last step away from fossil society and become climate neutral or preferably have negative emissions, it is important to have good electricity production. Of course, sun and wind are important, but Swedish nuclear power must be allowed to develop in a modern direction. This is an important part of regulating the supply of electricity in Sweden. Electricity is part of the well-being. Electricity is important in healthcare, and it is important in elderly care to prevent our elderly from freezing and getting hot food. I would therefore like the Left Party to reconsider its view of producing electricity that is efficient and climate-smart.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-385	Madam President, I would like Johan Pehrson's problem is that reality has run past him. We see developments that mean that we need to invest more in renewables, because that is the future. Today we are seeing a nuclear power that is becoming far too old and expensive. We can suddenly stand in a situation where we cannot supply electricity to our industry because we have lost development and have not gone forward. Due to the great liberalisation of the electricity grid, electricity prices for households have gone away. I therefore hope that together with Johan Pehrson, I can re-establish the electricity grid and set a ceiling for the electricity grid fee. Today we have a situation where large oligopolistic companies charge huge fees to ordinary homeowners in Grums and Ljungby. I think that is the important thing for households – and industry.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-388	Madam President, I would like The first conclusion of the Corona Commission's interim report was: The single most important factor behind the high mortality rates in elderly care is the general spread in society. The shortcomings in care for the elderly that the Commission is pointing out were the reason why we set up a major elderly inquiry six years ago. This investigation was to deal with precisely the shortcomings that the Corona Commission has now pointed out. But we lost the 2014 elections, and the S-led government closed the Elder investigation, without even taking part in its work. The high death toll is not just speech; it is about people who were someone's mother, father, grandfather or grandmother. It is on their behalf that we now have to ask the question: Why was the Elderly Investigation dropped, and what was done instead? The promises justify the closure by requiring a change of direction. But they did not change direction, but they pulled the reform brake. Very little has happened. It is a six-year betrayal of Sweden's elders. The speed with which the Minister for the Elderly elbowed his way into the Corona Commission press conference would have been needed in the policy of the elderly. The older team promised to lead to improvements after the next elections would have been needed much earlier, and it could have been in place for a long time if the government had only wanted to. The promise says that the care of the elderly needs more money. In our shadow budgets, we have set aside more money than the Social Democrats for elderly care. You have all heard us Christian Democrats here over the years and know who always raises questions about our elderly and about elderly care. The country's elders know where they're keeping us. The question now is, where do they keep the rest of you?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-394	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats may be in opposition to national politics, but are involved in many municipalities and regions around the country. This means that the Christian Democrats have great opportunities to make decisions and push through policies that make a difference to people and have major consequences in people's everyday lives. One has not least a great responsibility for elderly care around the country. This year, municipalities receive more than SEK 40 billion – in total, not only for elderly care – to be paid out to strengthen welfare. In municipalities such as Huddinge and Danderyd and many more, the Christian Democrats are now involved in lowering taxes and/or refraining from investing in elderly care. Is this taking responsibility for elderly care, Ebba Busch?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-396	Madam President, I would like The answer is: It depends on what the outcome will be for the elderly, for it is the content and the reality for those who care for the elderly that is the crucial. I can understand that some municipalities choose to lower taxes. We know that these tax cuts reach families with children and also low income earners, in contrast to the tax policy that Stefan Löfven has pursued, which has only targeted them with the highest incomes. We have put more than the government Löfven has done in the care of the elderly, but above all we have presented more reforms that would mean improved working conditions for those working in the care of the elderly and a clear national governance to reduce the number of shared tours and ensure fewer employees per manager, for example. Many of the proposals have been rejected. Even in a burning pandemic, the Prime Minister said no to a national effort to transform part-time work.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-399	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch's problem here is that from the state we make sure that substantial resources are taken out to the municipalities to be used in the welfare system but that out in some municipalities you sit and rather lower the tax and do not invest. That is the problem. Let me give some positive examples, however. In Filipstad the basic staffing is increased throughout the care of the elderly and the right to full time is realised. There, staff are trained as assistant nurses on paid working hours. In Härnösand, the promise of full time as the norm becomes a reality, while at the same time abolishing shared tours within elderly care. Avesta employs more people in home care and increases the pace of training staff throughout care for the elderly. More become nurses and so on. These are priorities that are being made here and now and that make a difference to people. Does Ebba Busch think these examples would be something to follow?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-402	Madam President, I would like The brief answer to the Prime Minister's question is yes. Several of these reforms are very good. But I wonder whether the Prime Minister can now at last imagine a tougher national governance of elderly care, earmarking the money and ensuring that it is impossible for local councillors, whether they are S-labelled or KD-labelled, to spend the money on show-off, such as baths, or to make tax increases or tax cuts that are not justified when the country's elderly are without retirement homes and when health professionals do not have the resources and working conditions that they need. The national governance had Stefan Löfven been able to start already six years ago. Instead, Stefan Löfven chose to bury the older investigation that had concrete reforms to make a difference. It would have been needed then, it would have been needed during the pandemic and it is now needed. Now you bury it until after the next election. This is a betrayal of the country's elders.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-404	Madam President, I would like The past year contained many unexpected elements. One such thing was that Ebba Busch came out as an opponent of both developed grid deductions, LAS reforms and reduced taxes. This is precisely what, according to the rhetoric of her Christmas speech, has restricted the freedom of the Värnamo that the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have been running together for decades. The fact that the economic policy of the Christian Democrats was so strongly left-wing is still surprising. Ebba Busch goes to frontal attacks on reduced marginal taxes, grids and labour market reforms. In what way is it bourgeois politics to be opposed to more and stronger companies and to people who work hard also getting more money left in their wallets?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-406	Madam President, I would like It's not. It is good bourgeois politics on the economic side. Criticism has concerned the fact that the Center Party supports a government that does not have a sustainable plan for ensuring that law and law and order apply in all parts of Sweden and that the Center Party does not have a self-criticism about the former bourgeois government at national level, which many times spent far too much time and effort solely on reforms in economics, for example. The gutter was right and proper, and we support it. However, we also note that the Center Party is now often faced with a heavy list of reforms in budgetary negotiations and lacks reforms for elderly care and health care. In this case, it has hit places like Värnamo, where we are in charge. The fact that legal policy has not been given sufficient priority at national level has affected local communities.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-408	Madam President, I would like After Ebba Busch's exposé on the shortcomings of the government, I think that we will again land in Värnamo, where the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have successfully ruled for decades. Let me put it this way: Ebba Busch's Christmas speech and attacks on Värnamo have not been directly met with applause from the local Christian Democrats. Reduced taxes and better business conditions have built Värnamo and the entire Gnosjö region strongly for a very long time, and Sweden needs more of this. For me, there is no contradiction between pursuing bourgeois economic policy and at the same time strengthening both security and welfare. This is what we are doing in the budget that is now being presented, in which we reduce the tax on jobs and businesses by 30 billion and invest almost as much in welfare. The Christian Democrats obviously no longer share our view that one can have an offensive economic bourgeois policy and at the same time invest in security, for now the Christian Democrats are suddenly opposed to reduced taxes, reforms for companies and a reformed labour market. In what way is this bourgeois economic policy, Ebba Busch?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-411	Madam President, I would like I think there is a reason why we have seen forces on the outside increase in Swedish politics. This is partly because politicians who are normally intellectually honest and do not want to misunderstand others have chosen to do so in order to seek conflict. I think Annie Lööf really understands very well that my point with regard to Värnamo was that the problem is that there has been too much bias towards economic reform and too little emphasis on justice policy. Please read the speech again! That's exactly what I'm saying. I have paid tribute to local cooperation between center parties and Christian Democrats and I am happy to do so again, for entrepreneurship and for the commitment to civil society. At national level, however, it is undoubtedly the case that the Center Party continues to have too heavy a list against reforms in the economy, as a further change in the box draw, rather than demanding responsibility from Stefan Löfven and subjecting its support to him by locking up criminals. This affects Värnamo.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-414	Madam President, I would like The elderly in Stockholm have been hit very hard by the coronapandemine. Many of the dead are unfortunately linked to elderly care in Stockholm, and it is the Christian Democrats who are responsible for elderly care in Stockholm. Before the pandemic hit Stockholm's elderly care, the Christian Democrats had made cuts of SEK 160 million in just two years. During the same period, the Christian Democrats lowered the requirement for permanent employment in the home service. And before that, attempts have been made to prevent staff from having locker rooms and work clothes to be able to change when they become contaminated. Only now, after a pandemic and when the state sends large sums of money to Stockholm, the Christian Democrats have had to agree to invest a little extra in elderly care. This is a medical scandal. Many people have died in Stockholm's elderly care. Why are there huge cuts when the Christian Democrats are free to choose for themselves?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-417	Madam President, I would like It hasn't been. I would like to say once again that it is the content, the outcome and the reality of the elderly that are crucial. We have repeatedly seen the need to combine spending in money with reforms that change the way things work. There are shortcomings in all municipalities, even in municipalities where we are in control. I have no problem admitting it, and that also applies to Stockholm. But we know that the main reason why so many older people have been affected is the national strategy, or the lack of strategy and political decisions. Actively, with open eyes, it was deliberately chosen to allow a higher rate of spread of infection in Sweden compared to many other countries, and there was an overconfidence that we could do it. It falls on the government.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-419	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch wants to combine big bets with other things. But what is missing here are the big bets. SEK 160 million in reductions in two years are huge amounts. The Christian Democrats' senior bourgeois council in Stockholm has received a lot of criticism for the management of the pandemic. Nothing was done in the first situation when schedules had to be changed and the number of people who went home to the elderly was minimized. When the elderly were still receiving the infection, they had to have cohort care and immediately isolate the elderly, so that staff had not gone between the elderly and the healthy to avoid the spread of the disease. It was at least six weeks before the council decided to have special teams that only worked with the sick elderly. They did not come in due to a lack of follow-up. What is the responsibility of the Christian Democrats for the large Swedish death toll?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-422	Madam President, I would like Now, as I said, we have a more than 300-page investigation that has concluded that the large mortality rates in care for the elderly are directly linked to a national approach that allowed a much higher rate of spread of infection in society at large. But I have no problem to admit that we could have done more and better in many municipalities where we are involved in local government. But in Stockholm, in the first half of March 2020, it was early to introduce a visit ban in the care of the elderly, even though it refused to do so at national level, and introduced special covid teams in the home care sector. We went out and said: let us take a hand, all the parties in this House, and set aside special funds for older drivers to turn hourly employment into permanent employment! The Left Party said no at national level. That's what you did during the pandemic.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-425	Madam President, I would like Because of conflicts, climate change and the coronap pandemic, we are in a global emergency. Almost 100 million people are living on the run right now. There are more than ever in history. Because of the pandemic, a great many people have lost their jobs, not least in developing countries. Today, 30 to 40 million more people are expected to live in poverty compared to a year ago. This is the first time in this century that world poverty is increasing. At the same time, we are seeing the world's countries backing away from their global commitments to aid, and the gap between needs and resources is great. The Christian Democrats, Ebba Busch, unlike the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, have long been our friend in aid policy and supported the 1% target. Now let me ask you, Ebba Busch: can you guarantee that the 1% target will remain if you take over government power in 2022, given that your intended cooperation parties have backed up from the 1% target?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-427	Madam President, I would like That's right. We have been proud defenders of a large and generous aid from Sweden to the rest of the world, and we continue to have the ambition of 1%. But I think we can be so honest that we still have a problem with having only one percentage. We have seen how aid funds from Sweden are being used in an unethical way. It has gone to some parts of the Palestinians but has not reached the population that has been in need. Instead, these aid funds have been used to finance terrorist organisations. We have seen elsewhere how the funds have not gone to smaller local actors from whom it is possible to demand responsibility, but they go into the large UN apparatus and do not always reach those in need in the way that is desirable. We have also seen, not least in 2015, how to use aid funds. It beats the chest because the aid is large, but it goes to migration in Sweden. That's wrong.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-429	Madam President, I would like I think that a lot of aid friends around Sweden are now horrified when they hear Ebba Busch's answer. The OECD evaluates Sweden's aid, as well as all other aid countries' aid, and we get the highest quality rating of all countries in terms of our delivery of aid. Of course, when you're dealing with very difficult environments, you have to risk part of the money to reach the people who really need the money. The Christian Democrats, on the other hand, suggested last autumn that we use SEK 1.8 billion of the aid that will go to poor people to build prisons for Swedish prisoners in countries such as Afghanistan and Somalia. The basic principle of aid is that it should be based on the needs of poor people for development. How do we support poor people by using aid funds to build prisons for Swedish prisoners, Ebba Busch?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-432	Madam President, I would like I know that many aid organisations and friends are pleased that we continue to push for aid to be large and generous and that we are happy to stick to the 1% target, but that we also criticise that so much of the aid funds are used to finance migration in Sweden and that they have also many times ended up in hands that should not have aid funds. But then you can ask: What about the source criticism of the Green Party? What we proposed was to use part of the aid that is already being used today to increase the humanitarian level and the protection of human rights in prisons, as we do in some African countries, for example. We have never proposed using aid to build prisons. However, we want to add more money in the area of justice policy to buy prison places in, for example, Lithuania or Latvia, as Norway does. Why do we want to do that? Yes, we want to do that because a father of two is brutally murdered at an ATM by a person who should have been in prison and who is also going to be in prison. You haven't.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-435	Madam President, I would like Over half a million people live their lives where unemployment is clearly higher, school results are significantly lower and crime is much more widespread. Outside is not only where there are high-rise buildings, but also in smaller towns – not often in places where businesses have closed down and where young people have chosen, or have been forced, to move to get a job. These are places where, although the countryside is struggling hard with the future, unfortunately the only thing that grows is the cemetery. The best way to freedom and power over one's own life is a school based on knowledge that sees that studies are needed to reach it. Therefore, the school must be lifted in many smaller municipalities and in vulnerable areas. This is done through a government body of responsibilities, targeted support for the most vulnerable schools and continued upgrading of our teachers. We Liberals have long pushed the demand for language and social tests to become citizens, and it is therefore gratifying that today we are presenting an investigation into the way forward for language and social studies in order to be able to become a citizen of Sweden. Madam President, I would like Serious crime removes part of the freedom of all people in Sweden. The fight against crime must mean that we are as much into the long-term work of change in order to give young people a future as we are clear that crime does not pay. Sweden still has too low sanctions for lifestyle crises, and the Liberals have therefore put forward a proposal for a comprehensive anti-gang pact. We Liberals believe in openness to the outside world, as we have mentioned earlier today. We say that we need to have a policy of migration that is strict and that ensures that we take responsibility for integrating the people who come to Sweden. They are to be helped with good integration, and we need to design this on the basis of what we can do. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a good country, and by focusing on school, integration and law enforcement, we can continue to be so in the future, when we are re-starting our country.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-441	Madam President, I would like The Swedish tax system needs to be reviewed. Today complicated tax rules are one of the most common problems for companies. This applies not least to the VAT system, and capital taxation is also difficult to see. Liberals went to elections on a major tax reform, and one is also included in the January agreement – a victory for L, it was said. But where is it? Of the JÖK's great tax reform ambitions, it seems soon to have become only a tummethott. Judging by the Liberals' debate article in DI, Johan Pehrson now seems to come to the same conclusion; now, instead, the Liberals are talking about the next parliamentary term. It's kind of like the song about the girl at the hospital. My question to Johan Pehrson is: Is there a tax reform, or have the Liberals given the government power in exchange for butter above?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-444	Madam President, I would like We thank you for today's most poetic feature! I wish I had contributed it myself. What is in our agreement with the government is about strengthening the wealth-creating forces in Sweden in the long term, and tax reform is an important part of it. We have taken a lot of piecemeal and piecemeal steps during our term of office: we have reduced taxes on companies, we have reduced taxes on individuals and we have made tax concessions for those who are the furthest from the labour market. At the same time, we have made efforts to strengthen education and training so that people can become employable. That's the way forward. We think that the marginal tax changes we have made by ensuring that people retain half of their last earned krona is very good. For prosperity in this country comes from people working, and there is no shortcut. It is about increasing people's work, rigour and investment. That's what it looks like.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-447	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I take it that hope lives with Johan Pehrson, despite the lack of time and even though Magdalena Andersson has said that she does not want to hear any dorkies that it is about reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Since the January parties are not telling us anything about their planned tax reforms, we must go to their authorities. Their fiscal council proposes a new and high property tax, and their expert group on public finance studies proposes a new and high property tax. The screws should be tightened if the owner of the dwelling. The property tax may be such a blow to the middle class that it may take decades before it rises again. If Johan Pehrson is so sure that there will be a tax reform, although he is now content with the possibility of the next term of office, my question is: Can he also guarantee that it will not mean a new and increased property tax – or, for that matter, an increased property tax?
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-450	Madam President, I would like Yes, hope is the last thing that abandons you. So does Ebba Busch. But it's like Corona's come between us. We have made enormous efforts in the form of tax relief and support, and they have got in the way of the structured work on tax reform. We Liberals think it is a good thing that we lower taxes on labour and raise taxes on what is shitting our environment; it is a tax exchange that is welcome in many ways. As far as capital taxation and real estate are concerned, we in the Liberals are clear that we think that, for example, the interest deduction needs to be phased out, for a long time and in a structured manner. That is absolutely necessary. As far as the property fee is concerned, we have no suggestion that it should be increased, but I myself think it is completely unreasonable that at home on my street in town there are very small houses where the residents have the same fee as those who live in the largest house on the street. One can imagine that you change in there, but the property fee generally does not need to be increased. The way there is to remove the interest rebates, slowly but surely.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-453	Madam President, I would like Now it is probably the very last time I stand in this speaker's chair. Therefore, I would like to address you who are young – to you who are listening now and who have doubts about politics. I'm addressing you who might be voting for the first time and don't know if there's an idea, because you're thinking that all politicians are at least the same. I am addressing those who have taught you about the climate crisis and think that it is already over. I am addressing you who are angry with politics or who just feel abandoned and feel that everything seems too complicated. To all of you, it is you who should take this society further. Society is not someone else's; it is yours and ours. Society is together. For my own part, it took half a career before I could see politics from within. What I know today is that nothing happens by itself but that all the changes happen because someone wants to – because someone drives the change and gets a majority for it. In fact, it's not harder than that. Two simple things I want all of you who doubt politics to understand. The first is that not all politicians want the same thing. That's wrong. Political parties want different things in crucial areas. The second is that parties must work together to change in a democracy. It's not betraying your followers, it's making society work. It is about being able to implement as much as possible of the policy on which elections were held. Do you believe these two simple things, you believe that change is possible, and I beg you, hold on to that feeling! The climate crisis is here. Earth faces an incomparably great threat, but you can change. Your voice can give a stronger, greener and more compassionate policy.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-458	Madam President, I would like It is easy to say that we must not hand over today's climate problems to our children and grandchildren, and many say so. But when it comes to actually acting to make sure that it doesn't happen – to actually do something yourself– there aren't always as many people involved. One who is always involved and always wants to do more is you, Isabella Lövin. You're contentious, but at the same time cooperative. You're convinced, but you're also sensitive. Today is your last debate in this House, and I would, of course, like to thank you for these years. I am pleased that together we have developed a climate policy framework with new climate targets, a climate law and a climate policy council to evaluate this policy. We have also taken a series of measures to ensure that emissions are reduced. These are structurally important measures. We have carried out an effort to address eutrophication, environmental toxins, littering and other threats to Sweden's lakes, seas and coasts. In addition, we have launched Industriklivet, and we could see a clear result up in Luleå earlier this autumn. Now you're ready to start producing fossil-free steel; it's a giant leap. These are things that Isabella Lövin has been involved in enforcing. As a minister, MEP, spokesperson, journalist, writer and opinion-former, Isabella Lövin has for two decades been one of the most important Swedish voices for green transition. I believe and hope that that voice will not quite silence when Isabella Lövin now does something else, and I look forward to further contacts. I'd like to give you something, too. It may be time for contemplation now, but it is also good to walk and be out. I'd like Isabella to come up and see the dazzling, beautiful High Coast. I am completely neutral on this issue, but I still want to do some advertising. Feel free to come by and have a bite to eat with Ulla and me when the pandemic allows!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-462	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister – Stefan – for those words. I wasn't really prepared to get this detangling from you as head of government, because I'm still here for a few more weeks. Thank you very much for that! I must also say that I think that our two parties have learned a lot from each other during this time – soon two terms of office. We felt very proud from the Environmental Party when the Swedish Environmental Protection Association made an evaluation of our respective parties' delivery regarding environmental and climate promises for the 2014 elections. When you looked in 2018, you saw that you had delivered much more environmental policy than you had promised. The Green Party had delivered something smaller, but we still got through a lot together. I also think it is a very good story about a green industrial transition that actually makes the country have a head start on competition and that allows us to build something stronger after the pandemic. Thank you very much for the book! When the pandemic allows, I'll be happy to walk on the High Coast.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-466	Madam President, I would like I'll see if I can live up to the questioner's ambition here. Many thanks to you, Isabella, for many debates and discussions and one or two conversations that have not been entirely public. You and I have felt different about most things, if we are to be honest, and sometimes in politics. To break opinions with people who do not feel the same as are also at least part of the purpose of politics. I think you are an example in a way that few people in Swedish politics are. You suggested it yourself– few have first seen half a career before they enter operational national policies. I think more people would need to have those experiences with them. There are also more who would stop in time, do new things and perhaps come back to politics once more. I think we need to oxygenate Swedish politics, and there you are a very good example. In addition, you can distinguish between the thing and the person; there I think even more people in Swedish politics would take after you. In any case, we have a real common interest, and that is the interest in forests, land and the sea. However, I think it's a little geographically diverse– you have much more experience in your areas, and I have more experience with mine. Even I'm pissed off at my Corona-adapted gift. Sweden's most beautiful county and landscape is called Sörmland; we have to have a separate debate on the latter. We have all of this. We have sea and lake, and we have forest and land. In addition, we have the Sörmlandsleden. It's 100 miles long, so I don't expect a report from all the routes at once. I've walked 50 of these 100 miles myself. It's amazing. With or without a meal, welcome to Sörmland!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-473	Madam President, I would like I have a certain theme about what I'm going to do now, and I'd like to do that very much. Thank you, Ulf Kristersson, for the very fine words! I am very pleased to be able to set an example in some sense for all those who enter politics. I would really urge everyone who feels that they really want to change– we have a completely unique democratic system and society where you can actually go in and do what I have been privileged to do. You and I have not very often thought the same, Ulf Kristersson, but we have at least worked and had a lot to do with each other. I really appreciate the leadership style you have. We have sat down and talked, even not so publicly a few times. We have one thing in common: We know pretty quickly when there is no point in continuing to talk. You have an openness to talk to all parties; we have heard that here too. I hope that my successor will have the chance to talk to you about how we take Sweden out of the climate crisis and other important things. Many thanks for the gift, and thank you for the cooperation!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-477	Madam President, I would like I was going to break this theme, although Blekinge is fantastic and Isabella is very welcome there too. We have a lot of nice places to visit there, and I, too, am of course completely objective in this. Instead, I was going to take us to East Africa. I've never been there myself; I don't know if Isabella has been there. There I have planned some trees for Isabella. Trees are good for the environment and for the climate. It is also good for combating poverty in a less prosperous part of the world. I'll give it to you in a minute, Isabella. I would like to take note of what Isabella said in her speech that you can influence very much by trying to see as your task to do what you can to get through as much as possible of the policy you stand for yourself even if you do not have your own majority. Surely, for better or for worse, we must say that the Green Party has been very good at taking the Social Democratic Government in an environmental partisan direction. This is mostly bad, if you ask me, but still. There the Green Party has really succeeded, and Isabella has clearly been one of those who have pushed this forward. I guess I'll have to congratulate you on your success. Thank you for your acquaintance!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-481	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmie Åkesson, for the nice gift! I see that we also have some Swedish forest here.
i-469fc8684b8c5cc6-0	I don't think that's what's going to be planted there. ) I understand that too! We've rarely felt the same way about a lot of things. I will never forget when you once on the radio got a question and had to say something positive about me. Then you said that I was very nice and that I could probably fall in love with people. You were wrong there too, I can say! But I thank you for saying that then. It shocked me a little. I want to thank you, too. I know you have a tedious mission; after my years as party leader and spokesperson, I know a lot more about it. It is an important role to carry in Swedish democracy. Thanks for the present!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-486	Madam President, I would like What a wonderful closing speech Isabella gave just recently! It was about the future, humanism, humanity and democracy and was aimed at the young people of the country. It really warmed up. It also shows very much the leadership that Isabella Lövin has stood for and lifted in the years she has been politically active. But before she became politically active, she actually wrote a book, and it was called the Silent Sea. There Isabella Lövin gave new light to the over-exploitation of fish stocks in our seas. It gave echoes both here in Sweden and internationally. Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that as a politician she has been anything but quiet, unlike the sea on which the title of the book alludes. In her political mission, Isabella Lövin has highlighted aid issues as well as issues related to fisheries, climate and sustainability. We have disagreed on a number of issues. We've had different perspectives. In addition, in recent years we have collaborated for green solutions within the framework of the January agreement for a more sustainable and climate-smart Sweden. I would like to thank Isabella Lövin for all the conversations, for all the debates and for the cooperation and wish her great luck in the future. I wish her peace and quiet and time for the family. Although I also like to take forest walks with you, Isabella Lövin, at home in Småland of course, I have a present for you. We have spent money on the World Wildlife Fund's work for living seas, because it is an issue that is close to Isabella Lövin's heart. With that, I would like to thank you for your good cooperation and wish you good luck!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Annie Lööf! It's really a gift that's right in the middle of it and feels very good. I would also like to thank Annie Lööf for an important time in Swedish politics. I want to thank you for the cooperation within the January Agreement and the courage, your personal courage also, to take the step across the block line and take responsibility for an election result although it was difficult to make and a complicated time. We have been barred on quite a few questions. I believe that the Swedish people are not aware that it is perhaps precisely the Green Party and the Center Party that are most difficult to reach agreement on many issues within the January agreement. But we've always found a way forward so far. I really want to thank you, Annie Lööf, for your constructiveness and personal courage in standing up on difficult issues, not least in relation to refugee issues and human rights. That is certainly needed today. Many thanks for that!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-496	Madam President, I would like Now everyone thinks, Isabella Lövin: How is this going to go? This is my first party leader debate and your last. It'll be like doors opening and doors closing. Of course, I've seen Isabella Lövin more from a distance. You are the person who writes a solid book about the silent seas and ends up in the European Parliament and works hard there. Then you become party leader, even, for the Green Party. It is noticeable that Isabella Lövin is a person with deep and broad knowledge and a genuine commitment to the important climate issues in particular. I am very happy that I have met you and that you have been in Swedish politics. It is such an advantage for us who want to see a better climate policy that you stand on the barricades with us, on our side. I really hope you continue your work. It was a bit exaggerated to say that doors are closing, because I'm absolutely sure you'll continue that work. I know you're such a person. I can tell. I think it's a shame you say you're not in love with people, because you are. You have an enormous knowledge that I really admire you for, and you have brought it into Swedish politics in a skilful and good way. Thank you for the great work you have done! You're a doer. It's important to get things done, and you do. Thank you very much for that, Isabella! Thank you for all the work you have done and will do. We in the Left Party have deposited money on your behalf for Save the Children's work in building schools and filling students' school bags in war-affected areas. I hope you'll be happy with that present. Thank you for everything!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the very fine words! I guess I'll have to look at this debate in a few months and pep myself. I can certainly guarantee that I will not stop standing on the barricades. I'll work for what we see we need. But you also need to make sure that you do what you do best. I'll see how I move forward with other tasks. I'm sorry, Nooshi, that we were only two ships that met in the night here and that I'm not allowed to work with you. I am really looking forward to your further work and wish you all the happiness! Thank you for the cooperation that our parties have had over these years!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-506	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to join in the detachment, Isabella Lövin! I want to do it by throwing money in the lake. We are top of the Center Party's present and have made a deposit to the World Wildlife Fund. It's a gift chosen on the basis that I think it's something Isabella Lövin would appreciate. Cleaner sea and a healthy environment – it's not money in the lake! I dare to take this guess not only on the basis of Isabella's great commitment and expertise – I really want to agree with what many have emphasised here in terms of both commitment and solid knowledge that has inspired many including myself – but also because I know that Isabella Lövin, like myself, lives in the countryside and enjoys the life that nature gives. Although Isabella's voice will soon be silenced in this House, through her pen, if I have understood correctly, it will continue to be active for clean seas and a good environment even for our children and grandchildren. In this work, I would like to wish you great luck, also with the wish that we might meet again in those contexts later on.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-509	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ebba Busch, for the fine words and for a well-chosen gift! What is thrown into the lake does not go away, I can say – that is a good point. We need to work for clean seas. I want to thank you, Ebba Busch, for stimulating debates and clarity. I would also like to thank the Christian Democrats for constantly raising health care and elderly care issues, which are of course very important. We see that not least today. We need the generational perspective. The idea of stewardship is an important idea that exists with the Christian Democrats, and I hope and believe that the Christian Democrats may give a little more priority to environmental and climate issues in the future. It's really needed. Many thanks also to you, Ebba Busch, for your democratic deed and commitment! It is important that we are able to take that role during a period of life.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-513	Madam President, I would like I also think Isabella Lövin's speech was very important. Politics makes a difference. And if we are concerned about our future, we must be more involved in taking democratic responsibility. You don't have to do it all the time. Here in Parliament it is crawling with whole-, half- and quarterbroilers or whatever they are. But people also come in and go out and maybe come back. It makes a difference and bears democratic responsibility. It's very important. So I think you're welcome back to politics once you get some rest, Isabella Lövin. First you should walk around half of Sweden now that you have been given hiking books. We in the Liberals think that you can rest sometimes too. That's why we give you a book about minorities, about the Swedish Sami. It's a August Award-winning book called the Lords put us here. We think you should read it. I would also like to thank you for the perspective you have given and for the journey you have made with the Green Party so that today you are a force that can work in Stockholm with the Liberals in a bourgeois context and that can take responsibility in Parliament in another context. I would also like to thank you for the work you have done to ensure that the Green Party is today a solid supporter of the European Union, not least through your own work there. You see this power. It is teeming with different majorities in the national parliaments of the European countries, where it is different. You see that the EU is constantly pushing forward towards becoming an ever stronger Union and that is where we need to solve our common problems, not least the climate issue, biodiversity and other things. That's where you've made a huge difference. You've fortified this. We stand together for a strong Europe. Thank you very much for your efforts!
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-518	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Pehrson! It's been fun to have you in the party leader debates. You have done a very good job, not least by bringing out a few laughs during our debates. I would also like to thank you and the Liberals for the intellectual integrity you stand for in terms of European cooperation. We need international cooperation. Maybe the world isn't so black or white all the time. It's complicated. You need to stand up for it. You do, and there's something I really appreciate. Thank you for that! Thank you for the fine words too! And thank you for a very interesting book that I'm really going to read. My warmest greetings also to Nyamko Sabuni, your party leader, and to Jan Björklund. We have had a great deal to do with the January agreement. I wish you every success in the future. Liberals are also an important voice in Swedish politics.
i-ea1c38ecc2e07507-523	I would also like to take this opportunity to express our warm thanks in the Presidium of Presidents. Warm good luck in the future!
