i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-10	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating an initiative that we Social Democrats have put forward in the Committee on Social Affairs. We believe that there is a need for careful monitoring and evaluation of the efforts made in the care of the elderly and presented by the Government in this year's budget. Where the money is not used for what it is intended for, it shall be repaid. I am very pleased that all the parties in the committee have supported our proposal. I have devoted a large part of my working life to working in the care of the elderly. I have followed the development of the old regional long-term care through noble reform and further towards today's care. Much has gradually improved over the years – individualised care, housing, the influence of everyday life and, of course, the possibilities of medical treatment and healing of medical disorders far up in the ages. However, not everything has improved. For a number of years, staff have signalled too much workload, unscrupulous stress about not being enough, feelings of inadequacy when you are unable to give the elderly a little gold edge in life and so on. We've all heard this. Nurses have protested that, in some cases, medical care and safety are difficult to maintain when the skills of other staff fall and many care recipients are to be taken care of. Hourly and fixed-term contracts have become everyday, not an unusual emergency solution in isolated cases. The proportion of adequately trained nursing staff has decreased. Medical involvement does not always work as intended. When I trained as a nurse in the early 80's, it was a very attractive profession that many wanted. It's not like that anymore. Mr President, I would like to Pandemin focused on the shortcomings that have existed and developed for decades in the care of the elderly. The reports we have heard from the Corona Commission and IVO, among others, terrify. That is why, of course, it was extremely gratifying when the government presented last autumn the biggest investment from the state side that I have ever experienced. Both the general investment of 4 billion annually and the Old Care Lift to raise skills are really needed. We also know that important work is in progress to protect the title of nurse, work for permanent care contact and more. A state grant to promote a sustainable working life is also welcome. So far everything felt good, especially as the government was clear that the efforts will need to continue and increase in the future. But then there started to be signals from different directions. Although the pandemic highlighted the problems and needs that exist and have existed for a long time in elderly care, a number of municipalities choose to erode and weaken it. It turns out that changes are being made that hardly benefit elderly care. You cut down. You privatize. You sell out. In addition, some municipalities will make record surpluses. Someone's lowering the treasure. However, it is difficult to find spending on care for the elderly in their budgets. People signal from several quarters that they have not heard of any bets, rather the opposite. Schedules should be impaired. The number of nurses should be reduced. Operations shall be wound up or outsourced. All of this, at least, made me very concerned. That is why I and the Socialist Group in the committee have chosen to present today's initiative that money spent by the state to improve care for the elderly should go to just that and nothing else. It is not common for a party representing the government to present an initiative in this way, but in this case it seemed absolutely necessary. There must certainly be no suspicion that money goes to anything other than what it is intended for. Is it possible that any municipality already has such a perfect elderly care that no improvements are needed? No, it doesn't seem likely. Mr President, I would like to We have not taken this initiative to point the finger at bourgeois-governed municipalities or to blame previous governments or, by all means, our present government. We have made this proposal because we are genuinely interested in better care for the elderly. I think all parties want it to be. My view is that we all, regardless of the party, need to look at what positions we have taken in the past and really think about what effects they have actually had. I am sure that if we are honest, all parties will have to reconsider one thing or another. Mr President, I would like to When I examine myself as a social democrat, I think that we were probably a little naive when it came to new public management models at the time when they began to be introduced. Industrial models are rarely poorly suited to activities dealing with people and meetings in difficult situations. We have not succeeded well enough in the full-time issue, even though we have been working on it for many years. Too many people still have part-time work, and this of course affects the continuity of care recipients. The fact that many say they are unable to work full time is a clear signal that working conditions need to be improved. Our idea of steering with trust is basically very good. But at some point you have to ask yourself, ‘ Who are we to trust? ' Perhaps it is time for more trust in staff than in administrations, municipal authorities, authorities and businesses. 中 More hands in the health care, or rather, the right hands in the care Mr President, I would like to I look forward to a constructive debate to strengthen care for the elderly together in the future. I look forward to hearing what the other parties want to do. Are you prepared to reconsider something in your previous policy? If we continue to do what we have always done, the result would hardly be any different than it has been until now.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-26	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the follow-up and evaluation of financial support, this time for elderly care. The Social Democrats in the Committee on Social Affairs proposed this committee initiative. I note that the Social Democrats constitute the so-called government foundation in the Riksdag. We Moderates see it as natural that a government automatically connects to monitoring and evaluation when it decides on financial support. The Government has the responsibility to monitor and evaluate financial contributions. It is so to say in the spinal cord to do so. It is also on the checklist. We can see in the report that the government has given a mandate to follow up on this. It naturally raises thoughts and concerns as to why the Social Democrats chose to do this. Mr President, I would like to We have heard some of the arguments, but my first thought was: Do they not trust their own government and that it makes a proper evaluation? Of course they do, don't they? Well, I find it a little strange, a little strained and somewhat unclear that this initiative has been taken. The financial support that we are now proposed to take the decision to announce to the government to follow up and evaluate is largely targeted state contributions with a relatively high degree of detail. Targeted contributions of this nature often impose a large administrative burden on the recipient, in this case the municipalities. It is often particularly burdensome for the smaller municipalities. They risk having to spend disproportionately large administrative resources on managing the grant, and it can even become such a burden that they do not make the government's desired action. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have confidence in municipalities and regions and often propose to strengthen general state subsidies. We often suggest changing targeted grants to general ones. General grants give municipalities, of course within a given framework, greater opportunities to use the money where they can do the greatest possible benefit in their municipality with its unique conditions. General grants thus provide more opportunity for more workshop than administration. Mr President, I would like to I have no other proposal than that proposed by the committee. Of course we think the government should follow up and evaluate. If the money has not been spent, it will be returned to the Treasury. Care for the elderly is very important to support, and hopefully the municipalities can create as much workshop as possible.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-33	Mr President, I would like to I share Mrs Sanders's view that general state subsidies naturally have advantages and that this may mean a reduction in administration. But if the money does not go to what it is intended for, it is hardly an argument. Then I have thought like this: The basis for the government's efforts was that it would be very simple. But how does Mats Sander see that there are signals that you do not intend to use money for what they are intended for? I also think that, of course, everyone is under pressure in pandemic times, and it is hoped that administration will take place as smoothly as possible. But perhaps it is not the municipalities' financial departments that are most under pressure during a pandemic? I think it is perfectly reasonable that some time should perhaps be allocated in the financial services to carry out a follow-up and an evaluation of this. It's in everyone's interest. The second part I was thinking about was, as Mats Sander probably heard if he listened to my speech, the one I raised about self-examination. Is there anything in Mats Sanders and Moderates' politics that you are prepared to reconsider and think about? One might ask: Has this position that we in the Moderates have made a positive effect on care for the elderly?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-37	Mr President, I would like to I note that in 2014, the Alliance Government set up an investigation to deliver results in 2015. It closed the Social Democratic Government immediately after the 2014 elections. That investigation gave the same picture of problems as the Corona Commission, and if it had been allowed to continue, it would have been able to propose parliamentary proposals for solutions that would have improved the care of the elderly to face the pandemic by 2020. I also note that the Moderates, together with the Left Party and the Christian Democrats, made a proposal last week that concerned the elderly. These included increased continuity of staff, fewer hours' employment in care for the elderly, increased medical skills in care for the elderly and increased opportunities for safe housing for the elderly. It's a big bet.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-39	Mr President, I would like to We can discuss previous investigations back and forth. It is possible that it might not have been the best thing to close that investigation – I cannot answer that today – but I wish we could look at our own policy and consider whether there is something in our positions that may not have led to a positive development in the care of the elderly. I am thinking, for example, of home care privatisations. Is it reasonable that there should be 50-60 companies working on this at Östermalm? What about care for the elderly and care for the elderly? Is it reasonable that the extra money that the Left and the Moderates and others are now proposing does not go to what they are intended for? Is it reasonable for them to go to profits in large corporations? I think that one must be able to look at one's own policy and think: what have we done historically? Has it really led in the right direction? Is that something the health care professional has wanted? I don't really feel that Mats Sander understands my question. I wonder if Mats Sander sees something that the Moderates need to rethink when it comes to care for the elderly rather than talking about what we have done wrong or what other parties have failed to do and so on. Is there any kind of self-criticism in the Moderates?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-43	Mr President, I would like to The investigation that existed in 2014 gave, as I said earlier, the same problem picture that the Corona Commission gave in 2020. I think it was a good initiative, and I think it is a pity that this investigation was closed. It would have provided us with a good basis for proposals for decisions. It was pragmatically written, it was long-term and it aimed at broad parliamentary participation. Of course, we should use our resources, our common funds, for what they are to be used for. In cases where we provide resources for elderly care, they should be used for elderly care. I also think that we should always examine what we use the money for and how we can work to always develop, for example, care for the elderly. In the Moderate Committee, we have had interesting talks with the Chairman of the Municipal Council Tobias Baudin as well as other actors in the workers' organisations. We often agree on the development of, for example, care for the elderly. The Chairman of the Municipal Council also welcomed the fact that we had a broader political consensus in many areas. We will come back to the debate on older people here in a moment, in SoU9. Then I will develop the questions a little more.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-48	Mr President, I would like to I was going to be rather brief, because what is being said in a debate where everyone is already united, where the matter is already presented and where the broad debate on care for the elderly should be this afternoon? In any event, the strategy to protect the elderly has failed and the measures taken by the government and the authorities to protect the elderly against the Corona virus were too late and inadequate. The pandemic has made visible the difficult staffing situation facing care and care for the elderly and has in fact been facing for a long time. Unfortunately, elderly care over time is resource-based but also very undervalued. In the initial phase of the pandemic, care for the elderly was simply forgotten, which I think is one of the main reasons why we have had such an extensive spread of infection in many of our retirement homes. At least in this case, the government makes an entirely correct assessment that there is a great need to support the municipalities in order to raise the skills of both staff and managers in the care of the elderly. Therefore, the budget proposal has proposed additional resources for the municipalities. So what we are talking about here today is monitoring and evaluating financial support for elderly care. We agree in committee that it is very important to ensure that funds intended for elderly care are actually also spent on elderly care. Personally, I see it as a matter of course that careful monitoring and evaluation are always carried out to ensure that funds are used for what they are intended for. But it is also obvious that the funds that have not been used should be repaid. So I think that the Swedish people also think and assume that it works today. Of course, we support a proposal to monitor and evaluate financial support for elderly care. But I still have to agree with the chorus – to be honest, it feels a little strange that the proposal comes from the Social Democrats themselves. The fact that they need the committee's help and support to implement a proposal is quite odd and unusual. I support the proposal in the report.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-58	Mr President, I would like to Today's topic of debate is an issue which we in the Committee on Social Affairs all support, namely the question of monitoring and evaluating the financial support granted to the municipalities of the country and which aims to strengthen and improve care for the elderly. In the 2021 budget, there are very large investments aimed at elderly care. A total of over EUR 9 billion is involved. It is a necessary addition that is welcome in all the municipalities of the country. The major efforts that we have now made with the Government are about the specific investment in the Elderly Care Lift, the purpose of which is to give the staff the opportunity to train as a nurse or a nurse on paid working hours. The elderly care lift was broadened for 2021 to also cover investments in leadership within elderly care. However, a large part of the total budget effort for municipalities is more of the nature of general grants, which gives municipalities a great opportunity to make initiatives of a different nature as long as it aims to strengthen elderly care. Giving municipalities room for manoeuvre to shape their own efforts is a good way to go because the absolute best knowledge of what changes need to be made to strengthen and improve care for the elderly is available locally, in your municipality and in my municipality. I have been in contact with different municipalities from north to south and have been asked how you think about what challenges you face and what you feel you need to do to further strengthen elderly care, i.e. how you think you should use the grants that are now coming. The picture that emerges is mixed. Some municipalities want to invest in continuity so that the elderly with home help will have a smaller team with staff around them that will come home to them. Some municipalities want to update their dementia care and make improvements there. Some municipalities want to strengthen voluntary activities, invest in more meeting places for the elderly and prevent loneliness. Some municipalities want to invest in working environment or living environment. Mr President, I would like to I think it is a good thing that the decision taken today is aimed at ensuring that the funds allocated to care for the elderly actually go to the care of the elderly. It goes without saying that the money that we invest and which is intended to go to improvements in care for the elderly should go precisely there. But I am also pleased that we have given so much room in the budget for general investments because it gives the municipalities the space to shape the efforts themselves that are needed in the improvement work. As we see and hear, there is a differentiated picture of what efforts and measures you want and need to do out in the country's 290 municipalities. Through general grants, we create better conditions for municipalities to solve it in the way they consider the best. We have to trust that they will, because there is no universal solution that can be developed nationally, decided here in Parliament and then implemented throughout the country. No, the solutions and initiatives need to be different and adapted to local needs because the challenges are so different. We must have confidence that our municipalities and agencies are actually making the right investments on the basis of their assessments. Mr President, I would like to I believe that trust and dialogue are two keys for us to be able to move forward together and strengthen our care for the elderly. I am convinced that the last thing we need in the care of the elderly in Sweden today is more administration and paperwork. What we need to see is results and development. I and the Center Party support the initiative and the decision to be taken here today. But I think it's important that we think about how we shape our decisions in the future and how we link decisions with goals and follow-up in a simple way from the day we make decisions on the budget. We must not end up in a situation in which we, from the state side, are linking more and more control and heavier follow-up. All of this takes time and resources from the core business – time and resources that I want to go to care for the elderly.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-70	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about ensuring that funds for elderly care in municipalities go to the care of the elderly, for example, to replace hourly workers with permanent employees. I hope that we can now upgrade and upgrade with increased resources the care of the elderly. Now, at national level, we must be careful that the funds go to what they are intended to do. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you some background. We should all – at all levels – have understood that the elderly care that has been on starvation for so long would be a death trap for so many elderly and multisick people, I think. Responsibility falls heavily on all parties at all levels. I'll get back to it. A person with contributions from home care alone meets an average of 15 different people for 14 days. The figures are from 2019, which is before the pandemic. Seven out of ten nurses in the care of the elderly feel that the staffing is inadequate every week. 42% of them, Mr President, believe that staffing is so low that at least one day per week poses a risk to the elderly. So this applies before the pandemic. The staff's room for manoeuvre and the possibility of getting support from colleagues and managers has been significantly reduced. People in care for the elderly feel that their work is much more psychological and physically stressful in 2015 than in 2005. This is shown in a major study carried out, Mr President, at Stockholm University. There they examined different elderly care perspectives in the Nordic countries. We had an elderly care that wasn't on top of us when we entered the pandemic. In some municipalities elderly care is based on profit in welfare as an incentive and it has many actors. In Stockholm municipality, 40 per cent were employed hourly by 2020, which is quite a lot, isn't it? This is not how you face a pandemic. This is the background to the death of so many older people by covid-19. It's not a coincidence. This is the background to the fact that we have to go in with great resources and guarantee a dignified care for the elderly in the long term. This must not be a project for a few years, but must take place over a long period of years when we are working together on care for the elderly. Now the government has gone in with funds to care for the elderly, which is great. But we do not think it is too much or too offensive. The Left Party has therefore developed a committee initiative in the Finance Committee. There, the Left is now joining forces with the Moderates and Christian Democrats with an initiative that contains a number of proposals that will begin to address the acute shortcomings that the Corona Commission points out. It is also necessary to change the structural deficiencies, which have been known for a very long time. It is about increased medical skills, fewer hours' employment and increased continuity of staff. There should also be a greater possibility of safe housing. The Corona Commission says that those responsible for the situation are the current government, Mr President. The government runs the country. It had been in power for more than a year when the pandemic broke out. Prior to that, the Left Party collaborated with the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government in 2014– 2018. And before that, the Alliance was in power for eight years. They had, I think, a huge focus on tax cuts and welfare cuts. Care for the elderly has been a priority for decades. There has been a passion for market-liberal solutions and profits in welfare. SKR also has a great responsibility. We must never forget that Sweden's Municipalities and Regions are not an authority but an employer organisation that has long had a look at these issues. Perhaps they should have acted more forcefully, and that applies regardless of who has been in the majority in SKR. So there are many responsible on this issue. Mr President, I would like to It must now be clear how the means to strengthen care for the elderly have been used. How has the addition affected the municipality's allocation of funds to elderly care? To what extent have independent actors been given access to the funds? In the committee's view, it is very important to ensure that the funds intended for elderly care go to work. In cases where the funds have not been used for elderly care, they shall be reimbursed. In short: Follow the money! Like all other parties, the Left Party is in favour of the committee's proposal in the initiative.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-81	Mr President, I would like to On the basis of Karin Rågsjö's speech, I would like to ask you a few questions. Of course, the initiative of the Committee on Finance will be discussed at a later date, but I still have some thoughts about it. For the most part, I share Karin Rågsjö's views on elderly care. There are many common denominators in our parties' respective policies. But when Karin Rågsjö talks about the value of market solutions and profits in welfare, I wonder if the Left Party now has a plan for how the proposal they have put forward in the Finance Committee for more money for elderly care will really work out in the municipalities. Has the Left Party settled with the Moderates on how the money should be used so that they do not go to what Karin Rågsjö just mentioned that she is very much against? I have one more thought. It would be great if the municipalities could hire more nurses. However, they already show large budget surpluses for 2021. I understand, therefore, that the lack is not due to a lack of money. Could it be that there are simply no nurses to hire? How can they be developed quickly in 2021?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-84	Mr President, I would like to We are an opposition party and we are heading in different directions. Let's look at what the government is doing. We are looking at what other opposition parties, mainly M and KD, are doing, who have previously been responsible. They are also responsible for politics in a number of municipalities where the pandemic has gone really badly. The proposal we have drawn up in the Committee on Finance, Mr President, is based on long discussions with, for example, Kommunal. We have seen the shortcomings in care for the elderly. These deficiencies have been long lasting and are nothing that just appeared during the pandemic. This has been going on for decades. We have a good eye on what will happen in the municipalities. Of course, we stand by our strong criticism. It will, of course, be a carpet over the market-liberal solutions which, for example, Moderates and Christian Democrats often use in municipalities and regions. We have also presented a comprehensive training plan. We must, of course, have a national education plan for the professions of elderly care and health care. We cannot sit here and plot this. We think that all these decisions go together. When there are opportunities to do bigger things as an opposition party, you have to hook arms, even with those that you normally bark at and have criticism against. That goes without saying. The alternative would be that we as a party sat silent for four years. That's not exactly how it works. Without us, we are taking the opportunity to develop a policy that protects welfare, and we will follow this. We will be – excuse me, Mr President – a pain in the ass. It's a very ugly expression; I might be whipped here afterwards. In any case, we will be on the parties that cut into welfare. It's obvious.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-89	Mr President, I would like to It sounds good that Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party have had long discussions with Kommunal and so on. But what I really asked for is whether the Left Party has had long discussions with the Moderates about how this money should be used to strengthen elderly care. I noticed that Tobias Baudin was talking about health schedules, a very strange concept that I have tried to understand. It sounds like something very healthy and good. But when I look at that part, I can't help but see that it's about trying to maximize the withdrawal from the staff's time in such a way that the business will earn as much as possible on it. It's not about the caretakers making as much money as possible. It is not about staff getting the best work environment possible or being able to do their job as well as possible. It is simply, as I see it, about maximising profits. Is it not a little strange that the Left Party is making a deal to invest more money together with a party that wants so much different? As I listened to Mats Sander from the Moderates, I noted that they were not prepared to reconsider one thing in the policy they had pursued over the last 20 years. Then I would also like to take the opportunity to ask Karin Rågsjö: Is there anything in the Left Party's policy that the Left Party is prepared to reconsider? I think that if we are to hook arms, we must all really try to think through what we can reconsider and how we can honestly make things better in the care of the elderly, Mr President.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-93	Mr President, I would like to We did not cough up this deal in two hours, but there have, of course, been long negotiations with the Moderates and the KD in the Finance Committee. Otherwise, we wouldn't have gotten that far. We sat and balled with lyrics back and forth forever. When you meet these kinds of deals on issues that you think are incredibly urgent and important, you sometimes have to do so together with parties that you normally do not support. I think that is the role of opposition on various issues. As a left-wing party, we will look further at the municipalities and regions – mostly moderate-controlled, and also those where KD sits – that still emphasize market solutions as a fantastic thing when it comes to elderly care and health care. We will, of course, be highlighting those municipalities in different ways, Mr President. We have seen this for a long period in Stockholm, but also in Huddinge, for example. The sales are continuing. Now municipalities and regions have a good budget, so now it will be spent on welfare. It should not be saved in the barns. Money should not be wasted on profits in welfare. There should be no procurement that becomes strange and costly and does not benefit elderly care. We will look at this all the more. As a party, we constantly look at our policies to see what we can reconsider and how we can move forward. For example, retirement homes are a huge issue that we will be playing on. We may not have been super offensive in developing good alternatives for retirement homes, those that benefit the elderly and especially the elderly without a fat wallet.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-97	Mr President, I would like to I realise that we are in a front line fight for this afternoon's debate on the elderly, but I will try to stick to what we are going to decide on. I can only rejoice that the Social Democrats in the Committee on Social Affairs are far wiser than their party friends in the government. There is no doubt that older people need more resources to cope with their task of giving older people the best possible life. The fact that there are major structural problems in the care of the elderly, which ultimately affect the elderly, is well known to everyone. The government has set aside funds to strengthen care for the elderly, which is very good, although the level is not sufficient. When the state sees that an area, in this case the care of the elderly, needs to be strengthened, follow-up is, of course, an incredibly important part of the work. It is not that I doubt the municipalities, but when the state pays out big money, there must also be a follow-up system worthy of the name. There's gonna be a little weirdness here. Distributing funds that are called general and, at the same time, that they should go to care for the elderly is a bit difficult in itself. Maybe it's not so wise or so simple. My view is that the vast majority of municipalities, if not everyone, will still use the money for the care of the elderly. It can be done in different ways. Sofia Nilsson described this before. It may be that one way or another, one simply strengthens one's care for the elderly. But it may also be that in some municipalities savings and efficiency improvements have already been made in the past because the economy looked like it did. There you can withdraw those savings and thus give older people more resources. In both cases, the funds come to care for the elderly just as they should. It is perfectly reasonable to follow up and really find out how the extra funds have been used and how they have come to care for the elderly. That is why, Mr President, I and the Christian Democrats support the joint initiative of the Committee on Social Affairs.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-104	Mr President, I would like to I have never seen older people come up as many times in a parliamentary year as this year. For this we have the pandemic to thank – no evil that brings no good. Now the focus has really been on older people, and we are offering each other money in this area. More money is probably needed, but what is being invested is very welcome. The money must also be used as intended. We have the general contributions; municipalities and regions control that money based on the priorities they make – they see their reality. But when we then see how uneven things look in the country at national level, we see the needs that exist and also think that these are problems that need to be solved at national level, the specially-destined funds come into the picture. I know that in municipalities and regions there are those who call them "poisoned money" – they mess up local priorities, create an organisation to use them and so on. However, this is being done with a view to strengthening and improving the quality of the area we are now discussing, the care of the elderly. Money is also being invested in other areas. There are signals in the serious situation in which we find that the money has not been used as intended for the training of nurses and the improvement in the quality of care for the elderly that is so necessary. Several of you have pointed out that several investigations – the latest 2015 – have not led to any proposals and parliamentary decisions. At the same time, I know that a lot of the proposals that are there have taken on board municipalities and regions. It's a long way from everyone. However, there is nothing to prevent municipalities and regions from using proposals that do not require legislative change in order to strengthen quality locally. Perhaps I will repeat myself in the later debate today. We even have two debates in the area of the elderly today. It is about education, training and education. It is important that we receive the protected professional title for nurses and an education within the framework of a service. Employees receive paid training to go from assistant to assistant and from assistant to nurse and so on. It's extremely good. This makes the professions more attractive to apply for. We show that we want to strengthen their skills and their ability to do their jobs as intended. When these signals came that the funds would not be used as intended during a pandemic like this, it was like a slap in the face. Then the Social Democrats brought the unusual to the Social Affairs Committee: We must have a parliamentary decision. That is the decision that we are making today and which we Liberals naturally support. It is a matter of following up how this money is spent. What I see is the lack of long-termism in making such investments. It's money for a year at a time. In another context, we need to see how such specially-destined contributions can continue. You can insure regions and municipalities: we will invest next year and next year. The administration you are building will also be used for several years to come. The investigation I was responsible for was permanent care contact in home care. It will take place by 2030 before we have the full staffing required for us to be able to offer year-rich people such a permanent care contact. The investment we are making this year is just the beginning of an investment that we need a long time to come. I would like to conclude by asking the following: why have the priorities looked like this? So many beautiful words have been written on paper. There is an ageistic unconscious view of priorities. It has been said beautifully about efforts on care for the elderly, but this has not become a reality. This is a matter for all generations to work for. I usually bring up with our youth federations: this is actually your future as well. It's not just about the generation that I belong to as a 87-year-old, it's about your generation. You must work for it so that you can live in a good way the whole journey of your life and that you will dare to grow old.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-115	Mr President, I would like to It is an interesting debate to follow. I have not been involved in the preparation of the matter. Nevertheless, I note that there is a consensus on the importance of monitoring how the state spends its money. I think that's good. It is also reasonable for us to get better at it. At the same time, I am struck by what Kristina Nilsson from the Social Democrats pointed out about the importance of reconsidering and thinking about how we shape the decisions we make. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a large country. It looks very different, and the challenges are very different in the area of care for the elderly, for example. In some municipalities, it may be about resources. It has a tough labour market and a failing tax base. In some municipalities, it may be more about the difficulty of recruiting staff. In other areas, it may be that there is a lack of synergy between the structure of the region and the health care system. To then design targeted state grants that sometimes take their starting point in some municipalities' specific problem is perhaps one of the things that makes it problematic to take care of it locally. Here, as many Members have touched on, we need to think about: how do we design the support, and how do we get it to dock in the target images? I understand that there is a great deal of consensus that we want to invest in care for the elderly. We want to improve quality, and we want to work with trust, for example. This applies to our municipalities that carry out this activity and to our local politicians who are responsible for the activities. It is something to think about both in our committee and perhaps together with other committees in order to find a new balance or a new way forward in shaping state subsidies. It may sometimes appear from this pulpit that these lines of conflict are everywhere in the country. I can only reflect on the fact that once upon a time, together with social democrats and left-wing parties, I have purchased local hospitals. I come from a municipality that is ruled by the bourgeoisie but does not have a single private officer in the care of the elderly. Obviously, there are different ways to tackle and manage challenges and to solve local specific problems. This is where the state and the local level and the association SLR need to find a new handshake and a new way to work on these issues. We, the Green Party, support the proposal that is on the table to have a more rigorous evaluation. We look forward to a discussion about how we can work better and perhaps more rationally and efficiently with how we support and get better care for the elderly.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-123	Mr President, I would like to It is time to debate paragraph 40 of the January Agreement. The bill proposes to introduce a supplement in the Social Services Act to include people in municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants, SFIs, or equivalent education at folk high school to be considered at the disposal of the labour market, a so-called language requirement. However, those who have reasonable grounds shall be entitled to supply aid even if they do not participate in the SFI. The purpose of the supplement is, according to the Government, to clarify the importance of participating in language education in order to thereby improve the possibility of getting a job and establishing themselves in Sweden. In addition, the Government considers that the supplement clarifies what, according to preliminary work and case law, is part of being at the disposal of the labour market. Mr President, I would like to An individual assessment of a person's language skills is already being made when applying for support. If it turns out that the person in question needs language training and if there are opportunities to offer it, the applicant is required to participate in the training in order to receive subsistence support. So this is already being done as far as possible today. If the person refuses language teaching, he or she is not entitled to subsistence support unless there are special reasons. The government's supplement will thus only be a blow to the air as it will not change the situation of unemployed people in need of increased language skills dependent on subsistence support. That's not where the problem lies. This picture is confirmed by several consultation bodies, mainly municipalities, which state that the supplement will not make any difference for recipients of aid, for the work of social services or for forms of cooperation, as the requirements for participation in SFIs are already laid down in the legislation in force. We can only assume that when the government makes proposals that really have no bearing, it is done to give a signal. They want to be tougher when it comes to new arrivals and asylum seekers. The demand for SFI training is high in the country. One problem that is already being grappled with in the municipalities today is the lack of training places and the lack of trained SFI teachers, not to mention the lack of good quality, sometimes. In some municipalities the queues are long to get a place of education. There is therefore a great risk that the Government's supplement will remove the livelihoods of people who have not been given the chance to participate in SFI education due to lack of space in education. This means that this proposal risks sending more people outside the framework of society, and that should not be the intention of legislative changes. Instead, SFI training should be a right, that is to say, one should focus on making SFI available, and then of good quality. Instead, focus on it! Focus on that people also get natural meeting points so that new arrivals have the opportunity to learn the language in everyday life! Then, of course, I'm referring to segregation. It is also important to take with you something that several consultation bodies have raised: This creates an inflexible system. It undermines the ability of social secretaries to work professionally. I would also like to point out that the Left Party wants everyone who comes to Sweden to have the right to SFI from day one. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party assumes that all people in Sweden want to learn the Swedish language and become self-sufficient. The proposal gives the impression that the system is being over-used and that people are not doing what they can to change their situation. The image of beneficiaries of supply aid as passive, as people who over-exploit grants, is not in line with existing research. The truth is that the social security system is under-exploited. It is not easy to enter the social welfare office and apply for support. For many, this is a very final measure when there is no way to find another solution. Today, many demands are being made on applicants. It's not easy. For us, it is extremely important that the right to supply support is not subject to performance obligations. We share, among other things, the referral bodies of the Church of Sweden and the Society of Sweden's Social Managers' criticism of the proposal and the choice of the term linguistic duty. The legislative proposal and the choice of words give the impression that the government wants to individualise the problem of unemployment and shift responsibility to the aid applicant. Focusing on the individual's duty risks leading to a simplified picture of the complexity that has individual as well as structural causes and which is behind the fact that a person cannot advance into working life and self-sufficiency. Therefore, we from the Left Party believe that Parliament should reject the bill. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-137	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs, in which it supports the Government's proposal on language duty. Social Services Act Chapter 4 Paragraph 1 reads: Anyone who is unable to meet their needs or can have them provided by other means is entitled to the assistance of the Social Welfare Board for their livelihood. The Swedish system of support for livelihoods is unique and has its origins in that there should be help to get regardless of whether you end up in social or economic problems. When you look at which citizens receive support, you can see that it is often people with low education and perhaps with developed social problems. They are often also far removed from the labour market. However, supply support is intended to be temporary and to complement financial assistance with other actions. Mr President, I would like to As with other contributions from social services, the goal is for the individual to be able to manage on their own. Efforts must therefore vary according to the needs that exist. The social services work with many different solutions and problems. If you have substance abuse problems, you need help with treatment. If you are homeless, it needs to be solved with a dwelling. If you have problems setting limits for your children, you need the help of a family therapist. If you feel mentally ill, you need call support. As I said, the social services have many tasks, and one important task is to work closely with labour market and education policies. Mr President, I would like to In 2016, a clarification was introduced in the Social Services Act to be available to the labour market. Clarification means that those who are unable to make a living, but who are able to work, are entitled to support if they are at the disposal of the labour market. However, if there are acceptable reasons, the individual is entitled to supply aid as I have previously indicated. In order to be accessible to work, social services need to match their efforts with those in the field of labour market policy, so that those who have income support have effective access to measures that strengthen access to the labour market or receive appropriate training. Having a daily job is being part of society, being able to stand on your own feet. Apart from social difficulties, poor schooling with barely completed primary school or interrupted upper secondary school studies is often the reason why you do not get into the labour market. Unfortunately, however, we see that new arrivals with good education from their home country also end up in support for their livelihoods rather than work, many times because of shortcomings in the Swedish language. For those who receive support and lack knowledge of Swedish, language training is therefore an important basis for getting closer to employment. From a gender perspective, it is also important that both women and men are met with the same expectations and demands and are given the right conditions to be able to support themselves and stand on their own feet through entry into the labour market. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal today introduces a supplement to the Social Services Act. The supplement is called a language requirement and means that the person who receives subsistence support and cannot speak Swedish undertakes to read in SFI, Swedish for immigrants. Today, many municipalities are already using this tool to support more new arrivals to get closer to the labour market. The difference will be that the law will now apply to all municipalities, which means that the demand picture will be more equal throughout the country. Everyone who receives supply support and needs education in Swedish meets the same requirements with this proposal and gets the same opportunities, no matter where they live in Sweden. However, the proposal to read SFI does not go ahead with actions offered by the Employment Service, nor does the social services have the responsibility for assessing the individual's language skills. The aim of the proposal is primarily to make it easier for social services to support the individual in moving closer to the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Finally, are these efforts enough? My answer is that it can help at the margin, and that social services most important task is to support individuals to develop. This effort can be another piece of the puzzle that can help people to move on in life.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-150	Mr President, I would like to The work line must be restored. It is only with a strong working line that we can push back exclusion, improve integration and secure the financing of welfare in the long term. Restoring a strong line of work requires major reforms in a wide range of areas. Not least, we must ensure that it always pays better to work than to live on benefits. That is why we Moderates want to reduce taxes on labour, and we also want to change the benefit and transfer systems so that they support the work line. We want to introduce a ceiling on aid and make a substantial reform of aid for the supply of goods, that is to say what is called social assistance in the people's mouth and which is the proposal we are debating today. Mr President, I would like to The supply aid is intended to serve as the ultimate safety net but has developed into a long-term supply form for too many people. It's serious. Anyone studying the statistics on supply support sees a clear picture of Sweden's failure to integrate. A majority of those receiving subsistence support were born abroad. And despite the prolonged boom that Sweden and the world experienced before the current pandemic, our integration problems grew. Integration problems have further deepened during the pandemic, when entry jobs in sectors such as hotels and restaurants and commerce have disappeared and unemployment has risen. Half of those who immigrated to Sweden between 1990 and 2016 are not yet self-sufficient. It is a huge failure for which we, as a society, have to pay a very high price, a price in the form of, among other things, very high costs of supply aid. The cost of financial assistance today is around 12 billion a year. That is 12 billion reasons for re-establishing the work line. Every penny that society spends on income support is a crown that could have been spent on more police officers, on a higher staffing within the care of the elderly, or that the worker and worker could have retained through reduced income tax. Mr President, I would like to Sweden thus has very extensive integration problems. However, we Moderates are convinced that effective integration can be achieved, but it requires strong action, perseverance and, not least, a long-term sustainable migration policy. Unfortunately, the present government and the cooperation between the January parties do not deliver any of this. The basis for better integration is to abandon the undemanding policy that Sweden has been characterised by for too long. People who come to Sweden should be met with clear demands and welcomed with high expectations. Full access to Swedish grants and benefits is obtained through own work or permanent and legal residence in Sweden. The Government's proposal proposes an amendment to the Social Services Act to the effect that the individual, if needed as a basic rule, should participate in Swedish for immigrants, SFI, in order to be able to receive subsistence support. For us Moderates, this is absolutely self-evident. That is why we will vote in favour of the government proposal. At the same time, however, the government proposal is completely inadequate. Basically, it merely codifies existing practices. Much more is needed. In the follow-up motion that we Moderates have launched on the basis of the Government's proposal, we propose increased demands for compensation in the supply support. However, we are not dealing with this motion now, but the Social Affairs Committee has chosen to deal with our follow-up motion together with other motions on support for living. That is why we do not have a reservation in this report today. In any case, what we want is that participation in SFIs should not be enough to be eligible for supply support. We want to make demands on effort and performance, so that people who are immigrants to Sweden quickly acquire the key to the Swedish society that language constitutes. The Moderates want every person who starts with Swedish for immigrants to have an individual performance plan. It should be a plan based on the individual's prior knowledge and contains an estimate of how long it will take for the individual to complete each course and study path. Anyone who interrupts or does not complete their studies with approved study results within the specified timeframes must be prepared for consequences such as warnings and extremely partially or totally withdrawn start-up compensation or support. We also want to implement several measures to improve the quality of SFIs, not least through various efforts to increase the number of SFI teachers. Finally, to sum up and conclude: we Moderates want to introduce a strict line of work into the supply aid. We want to see increased demands for compensation and increase the activity requirements in the Social Services Act. In general, municipalities should impose requirements on activity equivalent to full-time for those receiving supply support. And anyone who can work will look for a job throughout the country. The work line must be restored.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-164	Mr President, I would like to I reacted to the honourable Member's description of the beneficiaries of supply aid. In fact, it sounded as if the beneficiaries of the aid had a very easy time and lived well on the aid they received. This is not really in line with the research that exists in the case of supply aid recipients. It is not easy to go into a social office and seek support, and there are performance requirements. I tried to explain that in my speech. Today, there can be quite a lot of demands on providers of supply aid. So that is not where the problem lies. I wonder what the honourable Member has to say about the fact that the support recipients have it so easily and actually live well on their contributions.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-167	Mr President, I would like to I do not recognise the description that this is how I expressed myself in the debate. I tried to make it clear that the undemanding policy that not least the Left Party for generations has stood for is an important explanation that Swedish integration has failed, that we have so great problems with exclusion and that so many people do not get into the community of the labour market. They do not come into their own livelihood and do not get a chance to help strengthen and build our society. We need to address these problems. I do not think that these problems are solved by not making demands and not believing in the power and will of the individual to contribute, to work and to do the right thing. I am not saying that it is easy to get support or that it is a simple existence. There are, of course, little margins when you live on financial aid; I am fully aware of that. However, I believe that aid for those who are currently dependent on support is an active line of work. It's about good education. It is about strong driving forces to get back to work. It is about lowering the thresholds to the labour market. But none of it stands for the Left Party – none of it, Mr President. That's what's troubling me. So we have a huge alienation in Sweden, which has grown and grown. We need the addresses. There are consequential problems from the point of view of exclusion – in the form of overcrowding and in the form of young people who feel hopeless and who become a simple prey for criminal gangs who want to recruit them. This is a huge challenge. I am pleased that there are many municipalities in Sweden that run a strong local work line and which impose requirements for the supply support in accordance with what the honourable Member said. But it looks different. Yes, there are municipalities such as Växjö and Solna, which are moderate - controlled, that really do this. But there are far too many, not least red-green, where you are too lax and do not make clear demands. It must be stopped, Mr President.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-174	Mr President, I would like to What I interpreted and which I tried to explain earlier was that the honourable Member said it would pay to work, that is to say, to make money from receiving support. The honourable Member believes that we have failed in segregation. Yeah, you could say that. But then you have to look at other aspects, and there the Moderates have a great responsibility. I come from Skärholmen myself, and in Skärholmen they sell out the last tenancy apartments. You don't build. During the mandates that the Moderates have been in charge in Stockholm they have not built rental apartments, which is needed for people to have an accommodation. They talk about segregation, but at the same time people are increasingly difficult to live in different parts of Stockholm. It is enormously segregated from a class perspective. The rich live in the inner city. The poor live in the suburbs. Of course you don't see each other. It is clear that natural language exchanges, for example, do not occur. I grew up in Skärholmen. There lived both new arrivals and people who had lived in Sweden for a very long time. There were people living there who have lived in Sweden for generations. That's when the meetings take place. Your policy creates a segregation. You have a non-existing housing policy, where you sell out the tenancy rights and where you want people to afford flats, for example. Moreover, it is a school system that prevents young people from even meeting in their locality. That is where we have the problems when it comes to people having access to society, to language and so on. The problems will not be solved by such proposals.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-180	Mr President, I would like to Yes, now this is not the Stockholm City Council, so I may not be going too far into the housing policy debate on the situation in Skärholmen. I do not know it well enough because I myself live in northern Bohuslän. But I can bring up my municipality of birth, Uddevalla. You can go back to the early '80s. At that time a lot of immigrants came to Sweden. We also had labour immigration because industry demanded labour. The people who came then were successfully integrated in Sweden. Why? Yes, they did because of work. The work line is the integration line. If we are to break the house segregation that the honourable Member spoke of and if we are to create better integration, the work that is the way forward. And then I and the Moderates think that a broad battery of measures is required. Clear driving forces are needed to make work pay better. It should never be possible to get more in grants than you actually benefit from working. It is necessary to lower the thresholds to the labour market. That is why we want to develop the RUT market, for example, so that more people can get a foothold in the labour market. All of this is rejected by the Left Party. It must then be clear, Mr President, that there is no active policy for more jobs and for more hours worked resources for our general well-being will shrink. There will be less money to increase staffing in care for the elderly. There will be less money to make the welfare efforts that we all want to make. There will be less money to invest in Sweden's competitiveness – in the form of roads, IT infrastructure and other things that will allow tomorrow's jobs to grow and we will have increased resources. An active working line with clear demands, high expectations and good training efforts is thus the way to better and successful integration.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-185	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that we want to contribute to people's well-being and development. And that is really what this report is about. In the report, we have dealt with the issue of language requirements for immigrants when they are in need of subsistence support. Demands for knowledge of the Swedish language have been driven by the Swedish Democrats for a long time on a number of issues. We therefore welcome the proposal on the linguistic obligation to provide support for immigrants in need of language development. Being able to speak the language of the country is an enormous advantage and a key to inclusion and establishment in the labour market, but it also provides a better understanding of society at large. This applies, of course, to whatever country in the world you live in and stay in for a long time. I can imagine myself in a scenario where I live in another country where I do not speak my language and where, moreover, I do not have an attachment to the labour market or an opportunity for self-sufficiency. The situation could easily end in isolation and that I live in my own bubble with my possible compatriots as support. What I want to say about this is once again that language skills are extremely important and that it is the primary factor for inclusion in society. We need to work actively on this in every way possible. In cases where the person refrains from studies, consideration should perhaps be given to whether the person has the right to benefit from the subsistence allowance. Now, as you know, the supply aid is the last safety net, so perhaps it is not easy to answer the question black or white, but it should certainly be asked. Mr President, I would like to I also want to flag because in the proposal we are talking about duty and not demands. We're talking about should and shouldn't. In other words, the proposal is rather vaguely formulated, and its implementation may therefore be slightly different in the country. Of course, we fully understand that a requirement may not be applicable in each individual case and that exceptions may be made. But if I personally live in another country, do not work and do not know the language and are forced to seek social services in order to make my everyday life come together economically, is it not the least requirement to put on me that I learn the language of the country concerned? To give a perspective on this, I could express myself in a simple way. For example, I move to France and finally realize that I cannot cope with my economy. Then I'll apply for support there and then I'll have to study French. It's basically completely free. It gives me great opportunities in the country. It gives me a better understanding of society, and I'm less often misunderstood. In addition, it makes me more attractive in the labour market because I can communicate with my surroundings and so on. This proposal is simply an investment. The proposal is no more controversial than that. There are many of us in this House who agree, apart from the Left Party, that the proposal is bad because it could be ineffective. I can agree with that to some extent, given the vague wording of the proposal. But they put forward as another argument that it is a bad idea because Sweden is in short supply of training places in SFI and that it would lead to a lack of supply. Mr President, I would like to In view of the vague wording, I am quite convinced that no one will be left without support if the social services have no place to refer to. Then, of course, I cannot help but think a little bit more about the argument of rejecting the proposal because of a lack of extra training places. Despite the fact that we in the country have housing shortages, extremely long care queues, alarming unemployment and so on, we are open to increased immigration and amnesty, for example. It's a little inconsistent, I think. However, it is a matter for another committee. What surprises me is that the Left Party does not see the positive effects and that, in substance, this is an investment in the person. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats support the Social Affairs Committee's proposal in the report, which we believe is a step in the right direction. However, it is important for us to emphasise the importance of demonstrating that rights also comply with obligations. We have stated in a separate opinion that, in addition to language requirements, we want to see a performance and activation requirement in general for supply support so that expectations are placed on everyone who receives support. There should always be some kind of compensation for obtaining supply support because it reasonably has several positive effects for the individual but also incentives and incentives to actually seek a job. We therefore believe that there should generally be activation and not only in the form of language development. However, this is not dealt with in this report and will be dealt with later in the spring. We therefore ask to be allowed to come back to that discussion. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that it is extremely good that we in this House are so united on this issue. We should not be afraid to make demands and have expectations. Humans benefit from being a part of it. Humans are well-suited to times. Man is well served by fellowship and, not least, by fulfilling a purpose in some sense. No one's okay with the opposite.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-203	Mr President, I would like to Today, I will be brief and concise and not drifting out on issues that do not affect the debate at all. We are debating participation in the SFI for the right to supply aid, and I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. As you know, the proposal is part of the January Agreement and has been the subject of negotiations. That is why I am taking this debate on behalf of the Center Party, and I am proud to have been involved in shaping the content of the bill. Today, many people are looking for support from municipalities in the wake of the pandemic. Unfortunately, it is something that happened even during a boom of fire. We have seen that exclusion has grown for a number of years, that very many people have been outside the labour market and that the social problems surrounding exclusion have grown. Surveys show that seven out of ten people today receive supply aid because of unemployment alone. It is unacceptable to us that many people should be locked into exclusion with all the social problems that it entails for both individuals and society. Mr President, I would like to Right now we are undertaking a historic transformation of the Swedish labour market, and I am extremely proud to be part of this. We are currently engaged in the biggest administrative reform in Sweden's modern history: the reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service. It is a reform that is extremely complex, but once completed it will mean that a great many people will have the opportunity to enter the labour market, gain ownership of their lives and thus achieve their dreams of life. But that's not enough. We are also engaged in the biggest changes that have taken place on the labour law side since the Saltsjöbad agreement was concluded in 1938. We address problems related to the functioning of the labour market, for example by enabling people to change and develop skills later in life. We are reforming unemployment insurance so that it really pays to work. We shall ensure that our transfer systems and insurance do not lead to people being locked into unemployment. We are in the process of fundamentally reforming the SFI, both by setting up an investigation involving principals through SFI money and by reviewing the content with the help of the Kliva investigation. We also know that SFI is an underfunded form of school – the worst-funded form of school if you compare it with what a secondary school place costs. We know that the SFI is struggling with enormous problems in terms of both the competence of teachers and the ability of people to go through SFIs in a high-quality way. With the help of these structural reforms, we are taking major steps towards achieving the goal of breaking exclusion. But we need to roll up our sleeves and do more things in parallel and at the same time. We know that no single measure alone can solve the problems that we see in society. Let us be clear about that. Linguistic duty is just a piece of the puzzle, not the whole solution. For the Center Party, it is extremely important that we enable people to enter working life and make a positive contribution to society. We are simply protecting the work line, and knowledge of the Swedish language is an extremely important piece of the puzzle in order for us to achieve the goals. Finally, I would like to touch on a subject which has been raised in the debate but which has nothing to do with the report itself. My moderate colleague mentioned the ceilings. Let us not make up problems that do not exist! I would like to point that out. We actually have a grant ceiling in Sweden. It is not that you can get all kinds of subsidies anyway. Instead, let us address the problems that we actually see in our society.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-214	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats think that today's proposal on language duty is absolutely excellent. This makes it clear that there are requirements for receiving supply support. Opposed order would be very strange. Support for supply is the ultimate safety net of society. The idea was, and is, that it should be of a short-term nature. Unfortunately, this has not been the case for everyone. Unfortunately, a lot of people get stuck in social security for a long time. This applies not least to our immigrant friends. That is unacceptable in every way. In order to be able to approach the Swedish labour market, knowledge of the Swedish language is of the utmost importance – perhaps the most important thing to have a chance to get a job. When we know this – and I think we all agree on this – we must give everyone the opportunity to learn Swedish. Of course, there are those, including the Left Party, who think that perfectly reasonable demands can be seen as some sort of punishment. But the only one who loses out on calllessness is the one who is not given the opportunity to learn his new language. It is not a secret to anyone that there are people who have been in Sweden for a very long time and still do not manage in Swedish in a reasonably good way. You have to use interpreters in government contacts after five, ten and fifteen years in Sweden. If you don't have an interpreter, you can use your children, who of course have had it easier to learn the Swedish language. It is not reasonable for children to take responsibility for their parents' knowledge of Swedish. The relationship of power in the family is going to be very strange. Mr President, I would like to I assume, just as the Left Party said here, that the vast majority of those who receive support do not want anything more than to get out of there, find their own work, their own livelihood and create their own future. Nevertheless, it is known that some do not participate in the activities offered. You don't want to or you can't. Whatever the reason, you are left out of the possibility of being hired. Everyone, both men and women, should be given the opportunity to learn Swedish, be given the opportunity to become part of the labour market and be given the opportunity to create their own future without being dependent on either support or other grants. Mr President, I would like to That is why we Christian Democrats believe that today's proposal on supply aid and participation in the SFI is a good proposal. We call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-222	Mr President, I would like to On the way into my hometown Uppsala you pass a sign: Welcome here. Welcome home. It makes you so happy to see the sign if you understand what it says on it, of course. We are a country, here in Sweden. We will be a people, with opportunities for each of us. We shall all be able to form ourselves, Mr President, to contribute and care for each other. Language is crucial for this to happen. One step along the way is what we are going to decide later today, namely that the person who receives supply support at the same time, if necessary, will learn Swedish. The Liberals have been pursuing this issue for a long time, and I support the committee's proposal. What's the alternative? If you don't know Swedish, how can you find an education, take the education and pass it? How can you apply for a job, get the job, keep the job and develop at your workplace? At the same time, those receiving supply aid need to have a better chance of avoiding supply aid. Then, of course, language brings together. It's a glue. That's what makes us a part of our neighborhood, our neighborhood, and become part of our city, our community. Mr President, I would like to Language is power. Language gives the power to vote and know what you put your vote on. It is the power to understand information, to be able to participate in development discussions at the children's school, to seek care, to understand what you should do and to tell you what problems you have. Language makes it possible to capture opportunities when they get in your way, on the same terms as everyone else in this country. There are those who can't, and they shouldn't have to. But all those who can assimilate the Swedish language should have that chance. Anything else is unacceptable. No matter where we live, the place on the language course should be there so that we can create a future. Knowledge is a crucial way into society, and knowledge of languages is probably the most important. The change of law tells me we're giving you a chance for a future. We help you with support and keep you under your arms, and at the same time we make sure that you learn to fly yourself. This country is to belong to all of us who live here.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-229	Mr President, I would like to Member after Member goes up the speaker's seat and says that this requirement must be made. But the demand already exists. Today, pupils can receive deductions if they do not participate in teaching, and so on. There are already rules and practices that make the right to supply aid conditional. Actually, it's more like a symbolic change of law. However, there is a problem raised by several different consultation bodies, namely that the requirement locks the social secretaries. There are times when it is not considered that language teaching is a priority, but rather other labour market measures are needed. The language requirement does not allow social secretaries to make their own assessment of the persons seeking support. Why is there a legal requirement for things that are already being done and that risk locking the social secretaries into dealing with them in a certain way? In this way, social secretaries are not given the opportunity to act professionally.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-231	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member, Mr Delgado, for this question. I do not understand the meaning of the question, although I understand all the words each one separately. How can someone be locked into learning the language? It's completely incomprehensible. It's the other way around. Language is freedom, power and the path to self-control. Member Delgado Varas himself said in the speaker's chair a moment ago that if there is a place you can already be taught today. It is true that education already exists in many places, but in many places there is no place. In many places you don't get the opportunity. It depends on where you live and what it looks like at the time. I believe that languages must be a right for each of us who lives here, because that is extremely important. There are certainly many people who also need other efforts. I certainly do. But I wonder which of those efforts can be taken full advantage of without the language. I believe that language is essential for you to become self-sufficient and self-determination and for you to really be able to live the life you want and shape it on your own. I see no obstacles to other efforts. But language must be the base.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-236	Mr President, I would like to Language is freedom – yes, of course! The Left Party would like people to be entitled to SFI from day one, i.e. when they come to Sweden. It is a big problem that there is a big gap between that you come to Sweden and that you get different rights. I am surprised by the unwillingness to see the problems raised by the referral bodies. The consultation bodies involved are municipalities that work directly with the issue, universities that work with research issues in this area and non-profit organisations that meet these people every day. You choose to try to erase it by saying that this will certainly solve the problem. Rather, the problem is the need to strengthen SFI education. You need to expand the training places and have more SFI teachers. Access to the Swedish language needs to be available from day one.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-239	Mr President, I would like to I have not seen the massive criticism described by the honourable Member. What I see is a Sweden that is not equal and that does not provide fair and equal conditions. This is partly because we live in different places. In some places you get sfi; in others you don't get it. In some places there are interventions, and social services know what is needed; in others it does not. Those of us who know the language, wherever we live, also always have a advance. It's like starting ten minutes earlier in Vasaloppet. It's not fair. The way in which this proposal may be wrong is completely incomprehensible to me. For I have never met a person who has said to me: I wish I was a little worse in the language spoken in the country where I live. I therefore say 'yes' to this proposal and 'no' to the fact that things should be optional, can be rejected. I say no to people not getting the support and the future that everyone must have the right to in a country like Sweden.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-243	Mr President, I would like to Members! I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. For me as a new Member and for the Green Party, this is an important reform. Language is – it has been mentioned before – a ticket and a key to power, especially empowerment. Before I go into it, I want to reflect a little on how we use the language in Sweden and compare with how it is used in other Nordic countries, for example. In Sweden we have compulsory schooling, as it is so beautifully called. In this House, therefore, it has been decided that parents should in principle be threatened with perhaps not prison but at least fines if they do not ensure that their children go to school. Whether the children learn something or not, we have good points of view as well, but at least there is no punishment to do with it. In our neighbouring country, Denmark, we basically have the same thing, but it says the right to education, that is, the right of the child to education. Words and their meaning are used in different ways. As the half-Danish I am, of course I like the Danish version where you talk about the rights. This proposal, as I and the Green Party see it, is about the right to learn languages. With that right in hand, as a new citizen in this country, you can also get keys and knowledge to stand up for your rights. For example, a woman who is in a destructive relationship can seek and find help. Parents can help their children at school and so on. Language is important. I'm a little afraid of those, as I think, sometimes strange descriptions of people who live on support or with the help of society. Many in my circle of friendship have been there, and I would say that very few of them describe it as some laziness. Challenges on Facebook, for example, are quite popular. You challenge each other to do push-ups, sit-ups and so on. Perhaps the Committee on Social Affairs should look at a challenge in which we can try to live two months on the dependency support ratio. Then we see how fun and easy we think it is to make sure that the children have what they are supposed to have and that we have all the gadgets that we need to manage in society. But that is partly another issue. Basically, language is important. As I said, language is the key to power. I would like to see courageous citizens who can stand up for and demand their rights but also participate in society, in the talks we have here in Parliament, in the social debate and in the political discussion. As I said, I support the committee's proposal.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-252	Mr President, I would like to The situation in Swedish school is incredibly serious. The pandemic reinforces an already troublesome situation. The overall grade statistics for grade 6 are really sad. Never before have so many students had a good feeling already in year 6. Last summer, 31,385 students left – there are over a thousand classes and more than one in four students – the school already in grade 6 with no approval in any subject or subjects. If this is not picked up with support, extra education or what is available, we risk having a future in which every fourth student does not pass comprehensive school. That is why aid must be put in place early, much earlier than is happening today. One way to clarify students' needs for help is grades. We Moderates therefore believe that grades should be given already in grade 3, the year when students start writing national exams. It will be a clear signal, to the student but also to the family and the school. About grades we like people and parties different. Today, only the Moderates want grades from year three. But what is strange about today's issue is that the Social Democrats, which specifically state equivalence as the school's main goal, write a matter that means that it will be up to the Vice-Chancellor to decide whether to grade 4 or 5 or not. This does not mean that we get an equal school but that the differences increase. Two schools next to each other will have different rating systems, as well as siblings who go to different schools. It would be deeply unfortunate if we were to strive for greater equality in our schools and not the other way round. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the Moderate reservation.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-257	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to endorse reservation number 3. The Education Committee is today debating the possibility of introducing grades from grade 4. It should be said at the outset that the proposal refers more precisely to the possibility of grades from grade 4 in comprehensive school, special school and Sami school and from grade 5 in special school. The decision to introduce grades shall also apply to the following year. There are probably few things in the school area that over the years have created as much debate as just grades. It's been about the grade criteria. It has been about the name of the grades and the number of grades. It has also been a question of whether the grades are good or not. The message from the Swedish Democrats is clear: Rating is good and should be a natural and integrated part of the Swedish school. Rating contributes to an increased level of knowledge and quality in school. Rating also increases the possibility of early detection of children in need of support measures. And grades give students and parents much clearer signals about knowledge development than other types of feedback. That's why it's good if grades are introduced as early as possible. Year 4 is also a reasonable time to introduce grades. This is the first year at a new stage, middle school, and students are working towards the knowledge goals in grade 6. In this way, the progress in knowledge can be clearly followed by pupils and parents as well as teachers. The evaluation that the Swedish National Agency for Education has made of the introduction of grades in grade 6 – it was carried out in 2012, if I do not remember correctly – also provides strong support for previous grades. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, students' motivation is positively affected by previous grades in school. According to the evaluation, more than half of the teachers believe that the students' motivation has been increased due to the grades. In the pupils the figure is significantly higher. As many as eight out of ten students say that they work harder when they get grades, which is also confirmed by the guardians. The Swedish Agency for Education's evaluation also shows that the introduction of previous grades has led to an increased focus on students' knowledge development. All this suggests that the introduction of previous grades can contribute to better results in the Swedish school. We think it's great. It is not the case that Swedish schools today have major problems with excessively high study results, rather the opposite. International studies, such as Timms, show that Sweden finds it difficult to assert itself at advanced levels. By clarifying and making visible the knowledge requirements from an early stage, we can increase the motivation to study and thus gain better knowledge progression, even at higher levels of knowledge. The question is whether the government, now that it is making proposals for grades in grade 4, has landed correctly. The government has chosen a model that means that it will be voluntary to introduce grades from grade 4 and that it is the headmaster at each individual school unit that will decide whether grades should be given. Before making a decision, the teachers shall be allowed to speak to the staff member. This means that there may be new decisions if the school gets a new headmaster. There will thus be major differences, not only in different parts of the country, but also between different schools in the same municipality. We believe that this is very unfortunate, and we see it as a sign of the ambivalent view of grades that characterise the government in general and the social democracy in particular. The fact that the Social Democrats have now managed to get the former Liberals on this road is very sad. Throughout this term of office, the government has talked about the importance of equality in school. Now it decides to introduce previous ratings in a way that will help to reduce rather than strengthen equivalence. High-performance students with motivated and committed parents with higher education will see earlier grades more as an important criterion in school elections. It is not difficult to assume that it is primarily independent schools that will see this opportunity as a golden opportunity to strengthen their knowledge-focused profiles. There is a great risk that it is schools in vulnerable areas with a higher proportion of unauthorized teachers that will not introduce previous grades. In this way, the Government's proposal reinforces the lack of equivalence that it highlights in other contexts as problematic. We find this very unfortunate. The Swedish Democrats want grades to be introduced from grade 4 in primary school, special school and Sami school and from grade 5 in special school, mandatory and at all schools throughout the country. Government and parliament should not be allowed to squat and transfer responsibility to individual principals. We will act exactly as we did when we introduced grades from grade 6 – grades for everyone and everywhere. Everything else is a game for the galleries to try to hide that you don't really want previous ratings at all. Then it's better to stand up for that policy. The government's proposal is more like a toothless compromise in the January agreement than an understanding of the importance of previous grades. That is precisely why we have chosen to opt against the proposal in favour of compulsory grades from grade 4. Madam President, I would like Our reservation also includes a request that grades in social and natural-oriented subjects should be given in each individual subject from year 4. This claim is in line with our current approach to the existence of summary ratings. If grades are given on each subject, there will be a clearer focus on the specific subject, rather than what is now lumped together with others. We believe that this would benefit the progress of knowledge and that it would also be clearer to students what is expected in every in-depth subject of social and natural orientation.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-269	Madam President, I would like The bill that we are debating today proposes a change to the school law regarding grades from grade 4. There are many things that need to be changed in the Swedish school, while the school has a need for peace of mind and well-advised and well-examined reforms. Grades from grade 4 are not such a reform. There is nothing to suggest that early-age grades have a positive effect on learning. On the contrary, there is evidence that it causes stress and early exclusion. Both international and Swedish research agree on this. This does not, of course, mean that the development of knowledge should not be monitored. To ensure students' right to knowledge, a follow-up of their knowledge development is needed. However, a clear and equivalent follow-up at an early age is better than early grades. Madam President, I would like On 1 March 2017, the Riksdag decided to introduce a pilot project with grades from year 4. We in the Left Party then reserved ourselves, just as we will today. In connection with the decision on the experimental activities, the Government also decided to instruct the Swedish National Agency for Education to evaluate the results. This evaluation is now being carried out by a group of assessment researchers and will be completed in December 2021, i.e. this year. Wouldn't it be nice to wait for the investigation and evaluation? I wonder. Why do the government and all parties, apart from the Left Party, want to make today's decision without first having the evaluation presented? I also wonder what was the purpose of even setting up an evaluation group. The bill also states that Vice-Chancellors can decide to introduce grades from grade 4 after listening to the teachers. What does this mean in practice after we have heard, even before the decision has been taken, that owners of profit-making school groups announce that their schools will introduce grades from grade 4, without the teachers having been given their say? Where is the equivalence in this? Madam President, I would like This bill shows that the school's main problem and crisis is a political problem and a political crisis. When a large majority of the country's top politicians simply ignore what the research, profession and consultation bodies think about a matter, it is not surprising that systemic errors occur and that equivalence continues to decline. The Swedish faculty and other professional groups in school have for several years called for cuts, but then the Social Democracy and the bourgeoisie have turned their backs on them. The same faculty has in recent months started major appeals against the market school and its brutal consequences for equality and equivalence in Swedish school. There too, the majority in the Swedish Parliament has pretended to be nothing. Instead of listening to the profession, the government is choosing to run the Liberals' business once again, because we all know where this proposal comes from. In the previous decision on grades from year 4 Jan Björklund was the manager of Gustav Fridolin, and at today's decision Nyamko Sabuni is Anna Ekström's manager. Madam President, I would like What the school needs is more resources. What the school needs is an end to marketing school. What the school needs are politicians who make decisions based on research and professional experience. Previous grades are not requested by anyone in the school system and, as I said, lack support in research. When the question was last discussed, all the referral bodies were opposed to the proposal, and this time the referral was equally clear. Yet we stand here with the majority we have. In terms of grades from grade 6 it is also interesting that a member just stood here and gave false information about what the investigation came up with, given that the Swedish National Agency for Education was very clear that there were no benefits with grades from grade 6. Nor was there any evidence that there was a change in the knowledge development of children. This is what is on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website. We agree with the referrals from the Swedish Children's Ombudsman, the University of Gothenburg, the National Association of Idea-borne Schools, IFAU, the Association of Teachers, the Swedish Association of Teachers, the Swedish Agency for Participation, the Swedish Agency for Special Education, the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Swedish Student Council, in principle all municipalities that have been consultation bodies, Umeå University and Uppsala University, i.e. almost all consultation bodies on this issue. I therefore call for the proposal to be rejected and for the Left Party's reservation number 1 to be approved. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is not experimenting with children's education in this way. Once again, the positions in this House show which party is Sweden's real school party.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-283	Madam President, I would like Rating is an important tool for providing students and parents with information on how the student reaches the knowledge goals. The grades should contribute to continuous follow-up and evaluation of students' knowledge, communication of the results with parents and early support. The order of the day with grades from the autumn semester in year 6 is a good model. More than half of the teachers in the evaluation of grades from grade 6 felt that the students' motivation was higher as a result of the grades. Among the students themselves, as much as 80 percent stated that they worked harder when they knew they were going to get grades. Interviews with guardians also showed that children's motivation was increased. An important change such as introducing grades already from grade 4 instead of from grade 6 should lean on science and factual basis. But there is no such research today. There is therefore reason to carefully evaluate the introduction of grades from grade 4, where this has been tested in the experimental activities, based on how it has affected the acquisition of knowledge and the extent to which pupils have received additional resources when they have been at risk of not achieving the knowledge objectives. The natural thing, just as others have been advocating here, would have been to take a well-founded decision on the appropriateness of introducing this in all schools only after such an evaluation. So the government should have investigated this more carefully. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are basically not against introducing grades from grade 4 – I myself was at the time when we received grades already in grade 2. However, we would have preferred first to have examined how the tests with grades in grade 4 have affected the acquisition of knowledge and to what extent additional resources have really been allocated to those students who otherwise risk not reaching the knowledge goals. Unfortunately, the evaluation of introducing grades in grade 6 did not show that special support had been put in place earlier for those students who had needed it to meet the knowledge goals in secondary school. On the other hand, stress among pupils, especially those who already met the knowledge goals, increased. As there now appears to be a majority in the Riksdag to support the possibility of grade 4 grades, it is therefore of particular importance that the Government continuously monitors and evaluates the effects of the proposed changes in the School Act. This includes, for example, the way in which children in grades 4 and 5 receive support and special pedagogy, as well as other efforts to achieve the goals and assimilate the teaching. We are concerned about the lack of equivalence that will result if it will be voluntary to start giving grades from grade 4. It is therefore important to evaluate the consequences for the equivalence of a school system where grades are given in grade 4 in some schools but not in others. An appropriate authority should also be tasked with investigating the effects of the proposed introduction of grades from grade 4. It is the view of the Christian Democrats that the government should take appropriate action as I have said now. I would therefore like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 4. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I note that this is the last time that I am debating on behalf of the Committee on Education. This morning, the House made me switch over to the Foreign Affairs Committee. I will work there in particular on aid issues, which I am very much looking forward to. But, of course, it is with loss that I leave the education issues, which I am also passionate about. I would like to thank the whole committee for its good cooperation during this time. Continue working for all students' right to get the knowledge they need to move on in life to study and work!
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-294	Madam President, I would like I begin by wishing Gudrun Brunegård good luck in the continued work. Gudrun Brunegård spoke very well that you should wait for an evaluation before making a decision on grades from grade 4. My question then is: why do the Christian Democrats not do that? The Christian Democrats will today vote in favour of grades from grade 4 but at the same time have a reservation that you should have waited for the evaluation. If the Christian Democrats really wanted to wait for the evaluation, they would have been able to reserve and vote in favour of rejecting the bill. But they have not. How does this add up, Gudrun Brunegård?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-297	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Riazat for the question. I understand that this can be a little faint-hearted. However, as I said in my speech, we are not fundamentally opposed to rating earlier – if it is based on a scientific basis. We expect the government to make an evaluation of this in order to see if measures are actually taken earlier. The ambition is that students should receive support as early as possible. We know that students who receive early support to achieve the knowledge goals need less support later and also pass the rating criteria when they get higher up in the system. Of course, we want the best interests of all students, and it should be based on a scientific basis. That is why we are content with this reservation.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-301	Madam President, I would like I find this interesting. If it is to be based on a scientific basis, one should wait for an evaluation before voting through the Swedish Parliament to introduce this. The idea is that the evaluation will be published in December, while the reform will be introduced on 1 July this year. Do the Christian Democrats mean that if the evaluation shows that nothing suggests that this will lead to better knowledge development and more support in school for those in grade 4 then the Christian Democrats will push the question that this should be withdrawn? I do not believe that the Christian Democrats will do so. J ag wonders how much is behind the claim that the Christian Democrats believe in an education based on research and science. In this case, the Christian Democrats have shown that words stand up for the scientific basis but in action do not want to wait for the evaluation and therefore agree to the bill. To clarify for those who listen to the debate, the Christian Democrats will therefore vote in favour of a proposal for grades from grade 4 before we have even seen an evaluation. Interestingly, there is not a single research report worldwide that shows that grades at that age help children's knowledge development.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-307	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is important that our decisions are based on a scientific basis. At the same time, we need to see the real political situation, and we see that there is support for voting through this reform. We are not fundamentally against the introduction of grades in grade 4. I have not read all the scientific reports, but I know that in many countries you have grades considerably earlier. As I said, I have my own experience of having received grades already in year 2. We note that this reform will go through. However, there are things that we want you to follow up. We see doubts that it is the headmaster who should decide. Apart from the fact that there is a lack of equivalence between the different schools in the country, as another Member pointed out, it can also become a twitch in an individual school. Therefore, we believe it is important to investigate how the effects will be. We have seen other examples of the government finding that reform has not gone all the way and then made adjustments. We see it all the time now in the pandemic situation. I, too, as a Christian Democrat opposition politician, would like to believe that the government will be able to correct if it is seen in the autumn evaluation that the reform is not up to date.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-311	Madam President, I would like After the elections, the situation was locked, but after four months of negotiations a broad agreement was finally reached in the middle of Swedish politics. It aimed at allowing the country to be ruled without the influence of right-wing populists. We took responsibility together with the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party. The agreement, the January agreement, saw the light of day. As has been said many times: In such a negotiation, no one wins everything, but everyone wins something. Everyone has something to celebrate, and everyone has had to make concessions. Developing permanent regulations for schools that want to be able to introduce grades from grade 4 is such a concession f hold Social Democrats. The proposal we are debating today means that the Vice-Chancellor, after obtaining the teachers' opinions and producing a basis for decision, is given a mandate to decide whether grades are to be given in grades 4 and 5. Such a decision must then be reported to the principal and the principal in turn to the National Agency for Education. The Vice-Chancellor is also given the mandate to decide that the school should cease to grade in grades 4 and 5. It is reasonable that there is a recent time for n is such a decision to be made for a new school year. In the case of grades in general and grades in lower grades in particular, there is no research support to claim that it would benefit neither learning nor motivation. The feedback to students who give the best results for their future learning is the feedback about how to do tomorrow rather than the one who sums up what they did yesterday, so-called formal assessment. The language has billions of nuances and can express to the student what became good and what would have to be done differently, and how, the next time the student takes on a similar task. The grading scale has six shades and is only able to express how it went, i.e. what has already happened. Madam President, I would like There are few advantages with grades from grade 4. When evaluating grades from grade 6, teachers and students have been given the opportunity to self-evaluation describe whether early grades have benefited motivation and learning. The evaluation suggests that learning and motivation have been strengthened rather than weakened by grading, although the result is not clear. After all, self-evaluation is self-evaluation, and there is no way of checking whether the statements correspond to the actual result. When it comes to the evaluation of grades from grade 4, it is not possible to draw any general conclusions. This is because the basis is far too small. Because it is the case, Madam President, that those who ask for the opportunity to grade 4 grades are few. This can be illustrated by participation in the ongoing trials. At most, 15 school units have participated, although it has been open for up to 100 schools to join. It can also be illustrated by the fact that the student organisations, the teachers' unions, the school authorities – in fact, most of the people affected by the proposal – are critical. I would also like to illustrate how unwanted it is to have a little anecdotal evidence. I have asked some school professionals for spontaneous reflections on the proposal to score grades from grade 4. 中 Spontaneously I get anxiety shocks and chills from the thought, replying a teacher. She feels that all previous ratings are more likely to burn out some and increase the pressure on girls to perform. I say no, fill a principal in. . Directly inappropriate, says a school manager. It's bad! Improved follow-up and feedback are needed, but not through grades, says a quality developer that I talked to. Madam President, I would like Neither research nor profession supports the introduction of early grades. Yet the Moderates are pushing the line that rating should be introduced, not optionally from grade 4 but for all students in the whole of Sweden from year 3. I also note that moderate friends in the International English School have already said that their schools will be awarded grades from grade 4, although they are principal and the one who gets the power to decide is principal. It becomes clear to everyone who listens to my speech here that this with the possibility of grades from grade 4 is a concession that I would hate to see. However, in order for the country to be ruled and undemocratic forces to be kept out of power, grades from grade 4 of the school units that so desire will still be said to be a rather small price to pay, especially when there seems to be no further demand to introduce it into the activities. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of the proposal contained in report No 9 of the Committee on Education and Training.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-321	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Mr Linus Sköld's speech, you do not really know what to think. What do the Social Democrats really think about this issue? Then, in all honesty, I have to say that it is becoming very convenient for the Social Democrats to always refer to the parliamentary situation as it does and that they have simply had to make concessions. One sometimes wonders: Have the Social Democrats got anything through the January agreement? This does not seem to be the case in the field of education. If we were now to agree that this is a concession that the Social Democrats had to make to the actual Minister of Education, former Jan Björklund and now Nyamko Sabuni, one might wonder why the Social Democrats did not say that they wanted to wait for the evaluation that is under way. I've been contacted by one of the members of the evaluation team. They wonder what's going on. They understand nothing and wonder why they are not allowed to present their proposal before a decision is taken. It is also a proposal that has been requested by the government, that is, the Social Democrats. This was done in the context of a decision on the previous experimental activity. Why do the Social Democrats not want to wait for an evaluation? There is no mention of this in the January agreement. I promise you, because I've been looking into it. There is no point in that you cannot wait for an evaluation before making a decision. I am simply asking Linus Sköld this question.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-324	Madam President, I would like The success of the social democrats in the January negotiations is obvious. It is not least about increased resources for welfare, and Daniel Riazat knows that very well. If the alternative to joining the Liberals on grades is to do as the Left Party and to join forces on the far right side with parties that have diametrically opposed agendas, both in substance and in the deepest ideological issues, then I prefer to settle with parties that stand up for openness, democracy and equal value for all.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-326	Madam President, I would like As everyone heard, no answer was given to any of my questions. I simply wonder: why do the Social Democrats not want to wait for an evaluation before making a decision? My question was not about why they are cooperating with the Liberals, but about why they are not waiting for an evaluation. When it comes to cooperation, it should also be said that the Left Party has passed a number of extra billions to the municipalities, which the government opposed. It says quite a lot about the Social Democracy if the Moderates agree to provide more resources to the welfare along with the Left but the Social Democracy does not. Then it is not the Left Party that has done something wrong, but then you have to look at what has happened to the Social Democracy. I repeat my question to everyone who listens so that it becomes very clear. I know that Mr Linus is an extremely skilled speaker and I know the answer to this question, which is the only question I have left. I wonder: Why is the government not waiting for an evaluation of grades from grade 4 before making decisions? Is it Nyamko Sabuni who has decided this, or what?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-329	Madam President, I would like I will keep answering the question then, and we will put aside the debate on welfare billions and cooperation parties. We are not waiting for the completion of the evaluation because this needs to be done now. We will ensure that the evaluation is completed, we will take the experience from it with us and we will follow how grade 4 grades are used. Of course, if things come up that need to be corrected, we will do this.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-331	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing grades from grade 4. I can begin by saying that this is not an issue that we in the Center Party have been pursuing, Madam President. What we have been pushing, however, is that it is crucial for teachers to be involved in the decision. We have also said that it is crucial that the principal is involved in the decision and that the principal does not make the decision himself. Why is this so crucial? Because it is an issue that will undoubtedly lead to schools presenting grades from grade 4 having to spend resources on introducing it and will have to spend teachers' time evaluating students and rewriting the grades, this in a school system where we see that the resources are very tight. I think we all know that. Then one can discuss whether the best thing is to put the resources on this particular piece. That is why it is important to include the teachers, who are responsible for the work, and also to include the principal, who will ultimately allocate the resources among their schools. To the point: Do grades give a better school? We must hope that, now that we want to introduce it in all of Sweden's schools. The only thing we can say for sure is that we don't know. What we know with certainty is that it will take more time from the teachers, and instead of providing better support to those students who need it most, it risks leading to less support for those students. It's a challenge. Madam President, I would like We can see that teachers are generally sceptical. It risks increasing their workload. We see that researchers do not see that there is scientific support for better study results. We also see that the student organisations are opposed to the majority of the consultation bodies, both trade unions and scientific institutions. However, what we know and are absolutely certain of, and on which everyone agrees, is that support for those students who are in the most difficult situation must be introduced early. You could say that it is the idea to introduce grades from grade 4, that the grades may show that there are some students who need better support earlier. However, what we have learned from trade unions and research is that teachers already know this and should therefore be able to provide support. Then there is the question of whether this early support will be introduced more often if students receive grades at a lower age. That is the big question. Then we can note that according to the research, teachers generally know which students are having difficulties regardless. But at the same time, as we have also heard here, motivation can increase when you get grades. We therefore sincerely hope for a positive effect. But we think it is important to be honest that this is a political wish that we have accepted more than it is a scientifically substantiated proposal that we have pursued. The important thing for the Center Party in this context is to work towards early support and not to spend more working time on knowing if it is necessary. Now we are giving schools this tool as an opportunity, not as a must. The scientific support to demand it, to force it through and to say that everyone must have it, is not strong enough. Then it is not the policy of the Center Party to impose educational methods on schools. I also believe that we all know that the grades are not a full response to people's skills. An important reform that is taking place in the field of grades is the assessment of grades that is completely changing the conditions and that makes us actually have compensatory grades, so that we see the whole human being to a greater extent at the times that grades are actually given. It is a reform that we look forward to and work harder for, so that our students are judged more equally. Therefore, all grades in this context should be compensatory, so that all grades are given on equal terms. Madam President, I would like One could say that it is really time to take new and more forward-looking discussions on how the performance of pupils, and not least of schools, should be valued, evaluated and, in some cases, measured. How do we measure today? We use a very time-consuming and very analog method that means that each teacher should write down a grade for each student. There may be other ways in the digital age that would mean less resource-intensive efforts to actually find out students' knowledge development. It is this kind of discussion that we should have. How do we make sure to actually find out which students are not making it? How can we support them in the past? When do they no longer follow the line they should follow to reach their goals? In the end, this is the whole thing. How do we ensure, Madam President, that every student reaches his or her full potential? Then we think there are better ways to do it than to give grades from grade 4. At the same time, we felt that the best way to govern the country on this occasion was to join the January agreement. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-342	Madam President, I would like To those who are tired of hearing my voice today, I will announce that I have more lines to take. I don't think I've ever heard a person stand in the speaker's seat and speak so much against what he's going to vote for. It almost felt like I was standing there in the speaker's chair and giving all the arguments against, and then there was something alter ego and said that we should still vote in favour of this. That's exactly how it felt when Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen was standing in the speaker's seat. According to the honourable Member, it is important that teachers should be allowed to speak up. One of the school groups that seems to be close to the Center Party is the International English School. They have already announced that they will introduce this in their schools. Of course, teachers are not asked. I wonder what the Center Party and Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen think about the fact that there are already actors who have decided to introduce something before the decision is even taken and before even the teachers are asked.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-345	Madam President, I would like It is not always entirely wrong to be Mr Hyde of Dr Hyde of the Left Party. This way it can be nice if you come in as something else sometimes. I think today we're pretty much in agreement. You also know why we have taken this position. That's because it's part of an agreement. You yourself have pointed out that it was difficult to see that the Social Democrats have achieved any policy at all in the January agreement. I think we can be very much in agreement that it is very clear that we have achieved quite a lot of policy. In this way it works for the other parties but very rarely for the Left Party, i.e. making compromises. What we would have liked to have seen on this occasion is, of course, that the International English School had not gone out and said anything about this without communicating with its teachers. We have made it very clear that we believe that teachers must be involved in this, because it is a decision that ultimately lands on the teachers' table. The teachers should certainly have been included. We believe, however, that it is important that the principals are involved in the discussions and that the principals do not do this themselves but also talk to the principals. But this decision-making does not really follow how we would have liked to see it. (Andre VICE TALMANN: I must remind honourable Members not to duke each other, but to use first and last names and to speak through the President. )
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-349	Madam President, I would like Member Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen did not really answer my question, although I did agree with the very paragraph on the Social Democrats. It must be admitted that if Nyamko Sabuni is Anna Ekström's boss, Annie Lööf Stefan Lövven's boss. When it comes to the question of grades from grade 4, it is nevertheless very clear that there is a lack of research evidence, as the honourable Member himself said from the speaker's chair. There is no support from the profession and there is no support from both trade unions and academic institutions. There is no support from anyone except from a party that is 2.5 per cent in the polls. I simply wonder how it is that all parties involved in this cooperation are against this, but that the Liberals have managed not only to get grades from grade 4 but also to get through that it will be introduced before an evaluation is completed and presented. How, then, can the Center Party get so much through the January agreement? But when it comes to an issue that is very simple, namely that one should simply not experiment with the children's future and not play with the teachers' work situation and working environment, one has suddenly not been able to get to wait only nine months for an evaluation to be presented before a decision is made.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-352	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member asked me last time what I thought about the decision of the International English School. I answered that question very clearly. However, the honourable Member has now asked another question to which I shall also try to answer, so that no one thinks I am not answering questions. I understand absolutely that it feels almost like some kind of challenge to stand and say one thing and vote for something else. It's not always easy. What is a challenge for the Left Party is that the Left Party is known as a party that does not make compromises. The Center Party is known as a party making compromises. We are trying to move Sweden forward by working with others, but not by standing as far out as we can on one side and complaining about everyone else and then when we get the opportunity to contribute, saying that it is too bad and that we are therefore not involved. Then nothing will be just the way you want it to be. However, you can stand on the sideline and complain a lot. But at the end of the day when you're actually going to show that you've got things done, you rarely have much to show off. Maybe that's why Annie Lööf is Stefan Lövven's boss, as you yourself say, Daniel Riazat, and not your party leader. You can think about that if you are a left-wing partyist. As I said, we would very much like to see another policy in this area. We would have liked to have seen another implementation, but we are and will always be a party that stands up for the agreements we conclude. We have concluded this agreement because we do not want to make agreements with certain parties here in Parliament. We have recently noted that the Left Party does not have such limitations, but it must bear them. Our starting point, however, is that we keep our compromises and that we want to keep some parties away from the power of Parliament as much as possible.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-356	Madam President, I would like We have enormous quality problems in Swedish schools. We have an increasing percentage of unauthorized teachers, and we have an educational segregation that affects those students who most need educated and experienced teachers. We have shortcomings in our studies, and we have great differences in quality at school. That is what should be the focus of the school policy debate, Madam President. As a political scientist, I think of a discussion about the parliamentary game, which is what we got here, but school policy and the need to follow up on the development of knowledge and students' results are, of course, about students. We have heard that the principals think so, that the teachers' unions think so and that the principals, i.e. the municipal politicians, think in a different way. This is not, however, about the local politicians, and it is not about the National Federation of Teachers or the Federation of Teachers. It's about the students. 15 - 16 per cent of students in grade 9 leave compulsory comprehensive school without adequate grades. They haven't passed the test to get into high school. 25 per cent of those leaving comprehensive school have not approved on all subjects. If you look at the development of knowledge and the monitoring of knowledge, where we have tried to raise the quality in school, you see differences. The deviations and results of the national tests are worrying. The lowest level has become a guideline instead of a floor; there is too much focus on students coming up to the lowest pass level, which we see not least in the important subject of mathematics. That is what should be the focus of this debate, Madam President. I regret that this is not the case. However, I note that the Liberals, who stand up for knowledge and put school first, have the support of a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament. Whether it is for the January Contract Parties or others, there is support for previous grades in school. There is a crushing majority in the Swedish Parliament to introduce grades from grade 4, and I welcome that. There is a party that will vote against the bill, but it is not about any evaluation of experiments or about grades in grade 4 or grade 6. In the Left Party you are basically against grades, even if you can imagine it at the end of primary school. I assume that it will vote against this afternoon – of course. It was also voted against in grade 6 when we introduced it. So I am not buying the rhetoric that you want to wait for a trial evaluation, but you are against grades. Still in the 21st century, the Left Party in this House actively pushed the line of a grade-free school. The pupils most affected by such an undemanding school are those who most need early school support. In evaluating the experimental activities with grades from grade 6, Madam President, it emerged that not all students who received grades in grade 6 had received early support. Then it is not wrong with the grading instrument and the follow-up instrument, but then we should go to the principal, the free school or municipal school and the politicians who do not take the responsibility they have under the school law to put in support or special pedagogy support. When it comes to the evaluation of grades in grade 4 it is absolutely most important on the total that the focus is on knowledge development. The focus must be on the development of knowledge. Even if it's about grades now, in the general debate on success schools, we see that the schools that focus on knowledge – which constantly follow up all students individually – are the ones that manage to turn the results, increase the quality and turn the ship in the right direction. None of this comes out in this debate, which I regret. Previous grades are not in themselves the solution to all problems. I began by saying that the most important factor for students to get the right support and good teaching is a trained, qualified teacher who knows his subjects. The important thing is that we have students in the classroom, which we do not have today. The important thing is that we have an educational leadership, a Vice-Chancellor, who focuses on these issues. However, previous grades will identify students in need of support. In particular, there are those students who are on or just above the limit of odkän t, Madam President, i.e. grade E. Many have also talked about this with information for guardians and motivation. Why are there parties in the Swedish parliament who are against school reforms that focus on knowledge? Why are reforms that help to identify the pupils most in need of support in the school system being opposed? Why is there opposition to reform that contributes to motivated students who are making more effort? This debate is typically Swedish, Madam President. It does not exist at all in the countries at the top of various international measurements, whether in South Korea or Finland. These countries are far ahead of us in terms of education, and they have previous grades as part of school policy. I support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-367	Madam President, I would like There is something interesting to know about this proposal and how it came about. Liberals started talking about this issue in 2015, when they really put their foot down and said it was going to a reform where grades from grade 4 would be included. A number of researchers in Sweden then sat down and looked at over 1,000 scientific articles, research reports and theses. Not a single one could find any evidence that grades from grade 4 or earlier age would be good for the children – not a single one. However, the Liberals, who were called the People's Party at the time, had something to refer to. So it was not the case that the Liberals came empty-handed, Madam President, because there was a research report from 1930. That is exactly what the Liberals are building their school policy on even today. I have a question for Mr Roger, who in the speaker's chair very skilfully – it should be said – tried to shift the focus away from what is important and instead made factually incorrect statements. It was, of course, entirely conscious, to shift the focus. What I want to ask Roger Haddad is: if we ignore the Left Party – we are not in this House, we say – why do the Liberals not want to trust the profession? Why don't the Liberals want to trust the scientists? Why do you not want to wait for an evaluation of the experimental activities with grades from grade 4? Could it be that we already know what it will say, namely what all other research has said for 70 – 80 years, that this is not a good reform?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-371	Madam President, I would like Among the studies most referred to in the last ten years are the 2010 IFAU study. It was accompanied four years later by a study from researchers in Gothenburg, and they happened to think differently. The problem in general is that there has been no in-depth grade research in Sweden for many years, and just as in the scientific community and among the teachers' unions – as in this Chamber – one feels different and draws slightly different conclusions. I can of course hear how to interpret the Swedish National Agency for Education's evaluation differently depending on which party needle you have, Madam President. This is certainly not about any old material from the 1930s. In fact, the National Association of Teachers says in its statement that you do not have anything in principle against previous grades in school, or in grade 4, but that you have criticism of this being on the headmaster. It is felt that it should be on the principal and that it should apply throughout the country. That is actually my opinion as well, but I too have had to give and take up negotiations with the government parties. The most important thing for me is that we go in a direction where we can introduce previous evaluations so that students get feedback. For example, when you ask students in Finland who have previous grades about grades, they say that they know where they are and that they can improve themselves to the next time and that they can communicate to guardians what support they have. It is clear that this is part of this reform, but do not forget the other parts: teacher training, study and security, and clear educational leadership. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that it does not matter what arguments are raised here by the Left Party, because the Left Party is fundamentally against grades in primary school.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-377	Madam President, I would like I don't even need to comment on what Roger Haddad mentioned about Left Party positions on grades. Anyone who has read our education policy programme – and our two previous ones – knows where we stand on these issues. Nowhere does it say that the Left Party is opposed to overall ratings, so let us dismiss this. It is also interesting how the Liberals try to shift the focus away from the fact that teachers already know what efforts need to be put in place but cannot do so because the Liberals believe that it is more important to give high-income people tax cuts than to provide resources so that there are more teachers in school who can be helped to provide the specific support. That is exactly what is happening. In municipalities where the Liberals are in charge, the school is cut down; there it is not invested in the school. There you see the students as customers, not as students to get support and get their individual customization. That is the reality, and that is really why this proposal comes up – to remove the focus from the fact that you do not trust teachers and research and simply do not want to deploy the resources that are needed. You also don't want to talk about the marketing school that has led to students not getting the support they need. Let us be honest from this speaker's seat! The Liberals are standing here today and have forced a number of parties to experiment with the future of our children. It has also been clearly said from the speaker's chair – Roger Haddad said it before – that it does not matter what anyone, or the Left Party, says on this issue. So it does not matter to the Liberals what teachers or researchers say or what virtually all reports have ever said about grades at that age, but the Liberals have already decided. This is one way of moving the focus away from what is really the problem: marketing school, resources for school, cuts and some other system errors. The Liberals are guilty of this.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-382	Madam President, I would like Had this been a debate in the municipal council in Västerås, the chairman would have knocked by the Member for not sticking to the core of the debate, namely the introduction of grades in grade 4. This is not about free schools, about resources in general or about funding the school system, it is about how we can go from an undemanding school and from a grade-free school, for which you have been fighting for decades. You have called for a refusal to introduce a requirement for a teacher's ID at school. You have voted against grades in grade 6, and you will vote against grades in grade 4. After all, you have countered everything that political school reforms have aimed at in order to enhance quality and focus on the core mission in school. I'm sorry about that. I am pleased that today I am on a completely different side from the Left Party, which has opposed the Liberals' school policy. I note that seven out of eight parties in the Swedish Parliament this afternoon will vote in favour of the government proposal, and I welcome that. A crushing majority in the Swedish Parliament will send out the message that knowledge is important and that it is important to identify students' needs earlier, to put in support and to be able to contribute to increasing motivation among students. This, together with many of the other measures we work with – study, teacher education, teacher training, mobile-free classrooms or whatever – will contribute to increasing the quality of Swedish school.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-386	Madam President, I would like My speech will be about the students – about the ten-year-olds that this proposal about the possibility of grades in grade 4 is about. All children have the right to receive the support they need at school to reach as far as they can and develop both as a person and on all subjects. All students need to be seen and receive the support they need early in school. When we in the Environmental Party entered the Ministry of Education in 2014, we could see that most support was given to students in grades 8 and 9. So the logic was that they waited to put in extra support for the last years, when the students would also get grades. Putting in support late is not only bad because the students have already missed a lot; for example, a student who has difficulty reading for eight years in school loses not only in the Swedish subject but also in every other subject because reading is the basis for all learning. It is also bad for students' self - esteem to feel that they are failing and that they are not following. We wanted to change this. We wanted to break the link between grades and the support students get for having different challenges. Therefore, we introduced a read-write-count guarantee aimed at early detection of whether children need special support to learn to read, write and count well. Already in the preschool class, and in grades 1, 2 and 3, there is assessment support for teachers. It is mandatory to work with mapping and providing early support. Madam President, I would like However, the fact that all students need the support they need early is not the same as the fact that previous grades are good. I believe that these things should be separated. I want to make sure that every child who needs support, for example to learn how to read well, will get it before he or she has even noticed that it went a little bumpy- before self-esteem even gets a thorn. Let's go to the question of grades in grade 4. What do we know about early grades? There have been a lot of research studies, and overall you can't say that students' knowledge results are improved by grades. What we can see is that early grades, i.e. grades for children of younger age, can have negative consequences for children's views on themselves and their learning. A bad grade early can make a child feel that it's gone and that you're bad– not only that it hasn't gone so well and that you haven't learned so much yet. This is something that we in the Green Party are very worried about. We are concerned that the evaluation of grades in grade 6 shows that girls in particular are at risk of higher stress and mental illness. That's worrying. When we negotiated the January Agreement, we therefore worked so that it would not be mandatory for everyone to introduce grades in grade 4 without it being a decision made by the headmaster of the individual school after consultation with the teachers. After all, it is those who work in school, close to the students, who can best assess the consequences in their student groups and at the same time make efforts to counteract the risks that exist with early grades. Therefore, I am quite upset to have already seen how school leaders, i.e. school owners, have gone out and decided that this should be introduced in all their schools without it being clear how the teachers have been involved in each individual school. It is important to follow the law in that part. It is crucial to avoid the negative consequences of previous grades that we fear, unfortunately. Madam President, I would like It becomes clear that we in the Green Party, as in the past, do not take a positive view of previous grades. It is a position that is largely shared by researchers, teachers and principals who have knowledge of what grades mean. We have agreed to a January agreement in which this point is included, and agreements are to be held. We have done our utmost to ensure that the consequences of this policy are manageable and as mild as possible. I would like to draw particular attention to the importance of this in the time we are in, in the midst of an ongoing pandemic that has affected schools very much. Also the earlier comprehensive school grades, which have not been covered by recommendations on distance learning, have been affected by the pandemic of high absenteeism due to mild symptoms, both in pupils and in teachers, and perhaps also sometimes due to fear of infection. It is therefore particularly important for us to emphasise that this is not something that needs to be implemented, especially now. Generally speaking, it is important to take into account that various reforms in the school area also take time – time from the teachers' teaching, time from the headmaster's pedagogical leadership and of course also time from the students. That is why it is important that this is precisely voluntary and that we do not impose a major and comprehensive reform on all schools. Madam President, I would like In this debate there has been a lot of discussion on the evaluation that was decided upon in connection with the introduction of the grade 4 test. I am convinced that this evaluation will also be an important basis for decision-making for those vice-chancellors who are considering introducing grades in grade 4 at their schools after this year's end. Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party think that the most important thing is to ensure that every child receives the support it needs early in school. It should not be conditional on also obtaining a grade, but should take its starting point only in the child's needs so that the child can reach as far as possible. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-401	Madam President, I would like We are in a very serious situation. The number of cases of covid-19 is increasing. Sweden has a very high spread of infection in many regions, not least in the region in which we find ourselves. New mutations of the virus have also been observed. At the same time, spring has struck with great force in parts of the country. The light returns, and with it perhaps a certain hope for the future. The regions are now working hard to vaccinate. Over 720,000 people have been given their first dose of vaccine, and nearly 250 000 people have been refilled with dose number two. The health effects of rapid and effective vaccination cannot be overestimated. Each dose of vaccine is also an injection into the economic recovery. But above all, it means that more and more people are finally hugging someone they missed — a grandmother or grandfather, a mother, a brother or a friend. I know there are many who are tired of waiting for this. So am I. But the pandemic isn't over. We can't relax yet. We need to continue to help each other to stop the spread of the disease. Keep your distance! Work at home if you can! Hold on and hold on! It's still about saving human lives. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has highlighted several shortcomings in our society. Healthcare and care staff really need better working conditions. Emergency preparedness needs to increase. Health insurance needs to be improved. Health insurance is a central part of Swedish welfare. It is designed to reduce financial vulnerability and to provide security for those affected by illness. Everyone who can work should work, but you should also know that the society on the day you cannot work is there and provides the support needed to get back to work – but also support financially during the time you are ill. That is why health insurance needs to be improved. Today, the Riksdag will decide on a change to break the trend that accelerated in 2020, as we have seen that more and more have been secured after 180 days. Above all, there are many with psychiatric diagnosis, many women with fatigue syndrome. A new large group was also created in 2020, namely those with long-term covid. The rejections after 180 days have increased sharply. To exemplify: In 2018, 21 percent of all cases of illness were rejected between day 180 and day 364. The corresponding figure until October 2020 was 40 per cent, which meant that there were two months left in the year. It is important that people are given better opportunities to undergo the care, treatment and rehabilitation they need in order to become healthy and be able to return to work. We are now implementing this change of assessment at day 180 as a first step towards better health insurance. It means that fewer will be secured. The whole of society benefits from more people in this way being better placed to get back to work. I am pleased that today there is a majority in favour of this decision. However, I note that, among others, the Moderates say no to the Government's proposal. They don't want to reduce insurance at 180 days. In their budget exercise for 2021, they want to maintain or tighten up the tougher rules for those affected by, for example, cancer or mental illness and only improve for those affected by long-term covid, according to the reservation on the table. It is an ill-considered proposal and, in substance, it would mean enormous injustice. There are many patient groups with similar problems as long-term illness in covid-19. They all have in common that there is little knowledge about them in the healthcare system, that the disease produces diffuse symptoms and that the forecast for when a return to work can occur is unclear. The most legal and logical thing is to treat everyone with similar problems the same. Health insurance is also an insurance that should provide protection when you cannot work. It is therefore the ability to work that must determine the right to sickness benefit, not the diagnosis you have. This is important because people can have completely different working abilities even if they have the same disease. We don't get sick exactly the same way. That is something we should have learned during this pandemic year. Some die of covid-19, and others do not even notice that they do. Therefore, it must be how sick you are and how it affects your work capacity that determines what support you should have, not what disease you have received. It would also be very difficult for healthcare and the Social Insurance Agency to identify the group of long-term patients in covid-19. Many have not been tested. And in the case of co-morbidity, it would be difficult, not to say impossible, for Försäkringskassan to determine which of the underlying diseases puts down the work capacity. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemy is primarily a matter of life and health. But it is also a question of economics. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, thanks to strong public finances, we have been able to spend historic sums to protect jobs and businesses. It's made a difference. The support for short-term lay-off has included 600 000 Swedes. Hundreds of thousands of employees have thus been able to reduce working hours and avoid the risk of losing their jobs. But no country and no government can save all jobs. That is why we have also strengthened security by raising unemployment funds while investing in 30 000 new training places in the Knowledgelift. Those who become unemployed should face security but also good opportunities to switch to a new profession. It has always been uncertain how this crisis would develop, not least how long it would last. It has also been important to get the support money out quickly. This has meant that financial support, which did not exist at all when we entered the pandemic, has had to be built up from scratch and adjusted as the pandemic continues. They are not produced in peace and quiet, but are designed to be in place as soon as possible. Then we also discover shortcomings that we need to correct in the course of our work. On several occasions, therefore, the committee has been able to agree, in broad agreement, on announcements to the government to improve crisis support. Just such an initiative was recently put into this House in the report More accurate crisis support for companies to face the consequences of the coronapndemin. At that time, a unanimous committee called on the government to change the rules of turnover support for individual traders so that those who received unemployment benefits or had been on parental leave or sick leave could also receive turnover support. It was a good and important initiative. Firstly, what is proposed in today's report is to be able to take certain marketing measures at the same time as collecting cash. That is reasonable and something that we support. The second proposal means that, as an individual trader, you should be able to take assignments at the same time as you have unemployment funds. As I said, it is good that we in committee can have an open dialogue on how to adjust emergency aid to better reach those who need it most. However, just a week after the Riksdag asked the Government to solve a problem in a way, to submit a new initiative that wants the government to solve partly the same problem but in a completely different way is not serious. The proposal now being proposed by the Committee on Finance is described as a crisis measure, although everyone knows that it is a very comprehensive and complex change in the rules on unemployment benefits that is being proposed. It would take years of investigative work to avoid people getting caught, and in no way would it facilitate the situation of individual traders here and now. To claim it is nothing but very unserious. I therefore call for the reservation to be approved under paragraph 3 and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-422	Madam President, I would like It starts with your fingers piercing. The heart is pounding hard. Then it's no longer possible. Tears come, and they don't stop running. In the end, it blacks out. It takes different forms, but more and more people suffer from mental illness. Since 2014, this is the most common reason for sick leave. Most often it is linked to depression and anxiety disorder. Women are hit harder than men, and women in the public sector are over-represented in the statistics. Mental illness has become a public disease, and it is insidious. As stress increases, the tingling in your fingers comes back. A broken leg heals, even if it takes time. But we know how. When the soul is broken, it is not always as easy. It may take longer, and it often requires more. Madam President, I would like When everything breaks down, society should be there to catch us. We agree on this in this House, from left to right. In Sweden, we are prepared to give up quite a lot for an insurance policy that comes in when we need it at its best. When it works, when the safety net is woven of strong threads, confidence increases. But when the net is woven increasingly sparse and we see how loved ones fall through and fall handlessly, then trust decreases. Confidence in us, which is ultimately to ensure that the protection works, is nibbled at the edge. In time, it disappears. When we are at our weakest, society should be at its strongest. This is the subject of this debate. Since the current Social Democratic-led government took over power, the number denied sickness benefit after day 180 has increased significantly despite the fact that we have had exactly the same legislation. It is not, therefore, above all, the law that is wrong, but this government's poor management and control of its own authorities. The proposals made in the bill run counter to the wrong, and instead of remedying what is wrong, there is a risk of making the sick even sicker. Is it something that we humans feel really bad about is exclusion. For a long time to remain outside the community that a workplace offers risks making us even sicker. The Swedish National Audit Office has made serious criticisms of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Public Employment Service and the state employers for their lack of efforts to make it easier for people who have been sick leave to return to work. Many sick leavers are not offered conversion meetings, and on average every three sick leave cases with state employers do not have documentation. This criticism falls heavily on the government, which has to lead and govern the authorities. We Moderates demand that the government assume its responsibility and that the government and the authorities do their job in order for the rehabilitation chain to function as intended. Instead of taking responsibility for their own decisions and mistakes, however, they turn to the Riksdag to ask for new, very blunt legislation. Madam President, I would like The opportunities and incentives to act to help people return to work must be strengthened for all actors in the health insurance system: the individual, the employer, the doctor and the administrator at Försäkringskassan. I would particularly like to point out here that far too little use is made of the possibility of preventive sickness benefit. The social security inspection recently concluded that the regulatory framework is not working. They point out that too few people with mental illness or diffuse physical problems receive preventive sickness benefit. This is particularly serious in view of the sharp increase in sick leave linked to psychiatric diagnosis. The Social Insurance Agency, which has rejected the proposal in this bill, sees a risk that insured persons, employers and health care will perceive the new exceptions as having more time in their rehabilitation work, i.e. that they can postpone important efforts needed to enable people to return to work. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions believe that a different application of the existing regulatory framework could remedy the problems that they want to resolve without changes in legislation, i.e. this amendment is not needed if the authorities do their job. The proposal we are debating today is therefore aimed at the target. Instead of cleaning in front of your own door and ensuring that the state complies with its own rules, the rehabilitation chain is broken by new legislation. In fact, it makes it difficult for people to get back to work. Madam President, I would like What goes like a red thread through government policy and this bill is that the work line is dismantled. The government has phased out the lower time limit in health insurance and said that it wants to permanently abolish the withdrawal. The proposal in the bill poses significant risks for a return to the very high sickness rates that Sweden wrestled with during the early 2000s. Instead of taking effective measures for those who are ill, there is a blunt legislative change that in practice risks leading to people moving further away from the labour market. That is not taking responsibility, and we Moderates cannot accept that. Madam President, I would like In the traces of covid-19, sick leave has increased significantly. The pandemic has created an exceptional situation requiring exceptional measures. During the pandemic, we Moderates have been the driving force behind important proposals such as the temporary abolition of carers' deductions and the extension of preventive sickness benefit for risk groups. It has been necessary to stop the spread of the disease and to protect particularly vulnerable persons. However, when the exceptional situation is over, temporary measures must be rolled back, and the economy must return to balance. It is crucial if society is to be strong when the next crisis strikes. As regards long-term illness in covid-19, there is a very low level of knowledge about the course of the disease, and an increasing number of alarms about long-term, diffuse and recurrent symptoms. This complicates the possibility of rehabilitation and return to work, which justifies that these people can be tried against their regular employer even after day 180. We therefore propose such a temporary derogation until the state of knowledge is better. Finally, Madam President, I should like to touch briefly on the announcement made today by the Parliament to the government by this report, which does not concern health insurance. During the crisis, we Moderates have been the driving force for better support for small businesses and individual traders. That is why we have also achieved stronger turnover support for them. However, we believe that during the current crisis, individual traders should be able to take on individual tasks that are limited in time or in income despite receiving unemployment benefits. This will make it easier to resume operations once the pandemic situation has changed. Of course, a settlement should be made in these cases. I am very pleased that we have been able to gather a majority of Parliament behind this proposal. With that, Madam President, I support reservation number 1.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-443	Madam President, I would like There is a sensation in the Moderate reservation contained in this report: the Moderates have taken a small step and have admitted that the sick do not actually get well getting rid of their sickness benefits. In their reservation, the Moderates state that those affected by long-term covid will not have their work capacity tested against the entire labour market at 180 days. That's good, really good, because no one gets well getting rid of their financial security. However, the Moderates still want to reduce health insurance and, among other things, reintroduce the backlog that threw 100,000 people out of insurance during the alliance years even though they lacked the capacity to work. Madam President, I would like I and Maria Malmer Stenergard agree that people with long-term covid do not get well from losing their sickness benefit. But why does Maria Malmer Stenergard believe that people who suffer from cancer or mental illness with symptoms similar to those with long - term covid would become healthy by losing their financial security?
i-3fWqud4t8BhRq8n4jJ7MLx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for the question! We know from research that longer cases of illness make it more difficult to return to work and self-support. The rather elegant starting point of the Social Democrats here is that people should be at home. Our starting point is that people's power and ability to work should be harnessed. A strong safety net should not be wrapped around us, but it should catch us when we fall. But no one who gets sick should stand alone. You should get full support in order to get well as quickly as possible, return to being able to support yourself and return to the community that a job entails. I and many with me, including the consultation bodies here, are concerned that the delays that the government wants to push through for everyone will result in the various actors in the rehabilitation chain not taking their responsibilities and putting in sufficiently clear and early action. Åsa Westlund knows, or should know, that there are exceptions that help those affected by cancer, for example. We Moderates would also like to see an investigation of another rehabilitation chain for those with psychiatric diagnoses because it looks so different and you may need completely different support compared to I would like to send a question back: how do the Social Democrats view the possibility of looking at another type of rehabilitation chain when it comes to psychiatric diagnoses?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-454	Madam President, I would like I am of the opinion that we must do something very quickly. What happens is that many are secured, and then we must act. What we have on the table now is a first step towards better health insurance. For us, it is important that welfare is there when we need it, and getting community support does not just mean getting rehabilitation. This is important, but in the social democratic welfare society it also means receiving financial support. People who have suffered from exhaustion and mental illness also avoid worrying about selling the house when they need to focus on getting healthy. I do not think that either me or Maria Malmer Stenergard are the ones who will determine how different diagnoses work. I think that is a dangerous way to go to believe that we can politically define it as the Moderates do here. They say that if you have certain diagnoses you should get a right and if you have others you should have something else – even though you have the same work capacity. I think that's a very dangerous way to go. Your policy is simply not connected on this point – if you do not represent anything entirely different from diagnostic health insurance, and that would certainly be giving up the line of work that you have stood for in politics. As far as long-term covid is concerned, you have realised that people will not be healthy if they receive lower financial compensation. But you are insisting that those who have other, similar symptoms should still receive significantly lower financial compensation. We agree on rehabilitation, but we do not agree on the financial compensation. Why do you still think people with diseases other than long-term covid would be healthier if they became poor?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-460	Madam President, I would like I really share Åsa Westlund's concern about the development we have seen in health insurance – that so many more are denied sickness benefit after day 180. But I do not understand at all how one can be in such a complete absence of self-criticism on the part of the government when nothing in the legislation has changed. What has changed is the government's governance of the authorities that does not work at all. In addition, the Government gave a clear directive to the Authority in 2015 to reduce sickness benefit. So this is a result of the government's own policy. But it doesn't look as good on Instagram if the Minister for Social Security would write: We've made serious mistakes. Let us make sure that those who have been affected by the authorities not doing their job really get help. It looks much better to go with a megaphone on Instagram and show that you have clubbed through a new law in the Riksdag. However, the problems will persist. Will the Social Democrats now ensure that the legislation works and that the key actors in rehabilitation do their job? I doubt it. There seems to be a greater interest in symbolism, which I regret. When we talk about people who are forced to sell their houses, I think we should talk about all the poor people who are and have been at risk. They've been waiting for months to get some kind of compensation. Several of them have had to choose either to take out a loan or to go to work with life as an input. Once there was a compensation in place, it ceased to apply and they became unpaid during two different glitches. This is putting people at risk, Madam President.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-464	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for the opportunity to debate the report of the Committee on Finance. I do so because it concerns health insurance issues in particular. We are debating today, as I said, the Finance Committee's report 41 Additional amending budget for 2021 – Some amended rules in the field of health insurance. I would like to start by expressing my support for our reservations in the report and would like to make it clear that this does not mean that we are opposed to the amendment of the law. On the contrary, we welcome the bill. We only wish that the government could have gone one step further and made the change better so that it would do even more good. Madam President, I would like Before the Social Democrats again came into government in 2014, the criticism was loud against Reinfeldt's austerity in health insurance for long-term sick leave to return to the labour market. I think a lot of people were hoping for a more humane health insurance. I think, however, that few could even dream that the Social Democrats would tighten their belts further in health insurance and beat the record in the number of insurance policies. Now it was no longer a question of labour market measures for long-term sick leave, which might have been on sick leave for years, but of clear signals to reduce the number of sick leave. This led to a slavish adherence to the time limits of the rehabilitation chain, which in practice turned it into an insurance chain more than a rehabilitation chain. After 180 days it is not even enough that you have cancer, are bedridden or have severe consequences of long-term covid to avoid insurance. We have heard countless stories about severely ill people who have been insured and have been told that they should be working. Not long ago, for example, I read about Jessica who was sick in ME and was bedridden for 22 hours a day. She, too, would be denied compensation and received the invitation to go to work. For some, it has gone so bad that after these announcements they have completely lost hope and in desperation chose to end their lives. These inhumane insurance policies must end and people must instead receive adequate support, rehabilitation and financial security. Madam President, I would like The problem has been that after 180 days people who have been ill are being tried against a fictitious labour market, i.e. against jobs that are not real. This is done despite the fact that according to the law there was an intention to have the opportunity to be tested against adapted jobs. These would be available for real, not only in theory, and then maybe if you turned them down, you were insured. But in reality, many have been told by the Social Insurance Agency that they would in theory be able to cope with a quiet job where they get a lot of rest and which is not cognitively challenging. On the grounds that they could, in theory, take a job like that that doesn't exist, they don't get any sickness benefit. When these people then go to Arbetsförmedlingen, they are told that no such jobs exist and that they cannot be communicated. This then counts as being unable to take a job. Therefore, in order to sprinkle further salt in the wounds, they risk losing their sickness benefit-based income and ending up in a difficult financial situation. This is totally unacceptable and something that the Social Democrats have been involved in creating through their clear directives to reduce the number of days of sickness benefit. The Swedish Democrats have long criticised this. Since the 2018 elections, we have proposed the complete abolition of the day 180 test against normal work. Instead, the examination should be limited to specific work within its own area of competence. This is a proposal that we are also highlighting in our reservation today. The government should investigate this in order to really make a difference in health insurance. Unfortunately, the proposal has also been rejected in the past by all the other parties, and the insurance of 180 has continued with severe complications and consequences for the individuals affected as a result. This has affected all kinds of diagnoses. Improvements to health insurance should, of course, apply to everyone. During the coronapendemine, the inadequate health insurance has been exposed in the light when people with long-term covid were also insured. Nurses who have worked hard for us during the pandemic and have done everything in their power to save lives would then be met with the message that they would be insured only because in theory they could take another job before they even had the chance to recover and return to work as nurses. Madam President, I would like We tabled a proposal in the Social Security Committee to completely abolish the 180-day limit, and the Left Party made similar proposals. But these were voted down. Later, however, it became clear to the government that the proposals might not be so bad anyway. At that time, a proposal was put forward to temporarily abolish the 180-day limit. That's good! Now we stand here today with a longer-term change of law that we in the Swedish Democrats welcome, although we do not think it is sufficient. It aims to make it easier to make exceptions to being tested against a broad labour market with normal jobs with insurance as a result. To avoid any misunderstandings: we are 100% for relief at day 180. Our reservation is not about being against the proposal; on the contrary, we want to go further than the government. Given that there have also been ministers who have misunderstood the order in Parliament and tweeted in the belief that a reservation is automatically about wanting to reject a bill, I felt compelled to be over-clear about this. What has emerged, Madam President, from several referrals from Saco, the Right to function Sweden and the National Cooperation for Mental Health is that predominantly reasons should be applied to be excluded from the whole labour market even when the insured person is deemed to be able to return to the employer on a part-time basis by no later than day 365. It would happen at a lower level than when you were working when you fell ill. We agree with these referrals. For a person affected by fatigue, such as burnout, it can be extremely important to get back to work in small steps. Of course, this must be possible with your own employer despite one year's sick leave. That a person in the middle of a rehabilitation process for burnout is at risk of being insured only because it is assessed at Försäkringskassan that the person cannot return to the same level as earlier after a year, we consider removing the cape, purpose and n surface with the reliefs that are now to be made. This can also be about a person with long-term covid where recovery can take a long time. If, after a year, a nurse can return to part time and then slowly rap up to the same level as before, it is quite enough for us to avoid being covered. We do not believe that the government's action is based on what it really ought to do when it strikes the point that it must be the same level as it used to be. I think it is regrettable that it is only we in the Swedish Democrats who want to give people the opportunity, after a year of sick leave, to return cautiously and gradually to part-time work with their former employer. Of course, these reliefs should not remove early rehabilitation efforts. There is also reason to review the rules that apply after day 365. We have several proposals on this and will come back to them in another report in the Social Security Committee. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, this report deals with a proposal on the right of individual traders to unemployment insurance and their ability to take individual limited tasks despite receiving compensation. In the run-up to the pandemic, the smallest companies have been hit the hardest. The slowness of the government has put many individual traders in an untenable situation, with payments delayed and companies waiting for months for the help they were promised. That individual traders should be able to take advantage of unemployment insurance and take on limited tasks, therefore, we see as a good proposal to save those small businessmen who are fundamentally viable, so in this part, of course, we support the committee's proposal.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-484	Madam President, I would like A natural starting point for the discussion that is taking place here and now about the design and adjustment of the social security system is that we should make use of both human and social resources. In this supplementary amending budget, the government proposes an adjustment to make it easier for some people on sick leave to be fully rehabilitated. We Christian Democrats are in favour of the government's proposals in this part; the system is there to support people, and when problems arise, we should not turn a blind eye to them. However, we have two requests for this supplementary amending budget. Firstly, we believe that the rehabilitation process needs to be evaluated in order to ensure that rehabilitation is not delayed. Secondly, we believe that, despite the changes that are now being proposed, it is necessary to ensure that long-term covid-19 ills have sufficient rehabilitation time, regardless of the time at which they fall ill. I request your approval for reservation number three. It is good that we have time limits in health insurance. They serve as reconciliation points and have historically contributed to a process of sick leave characterized by activity, past rehabilitation efforts and continuous contact with the Social Insurance Agency. Strong individual support has enabled more people to return to their previous jobs and fewer people to long and often hopeless sick leave. However, we have recently received regular reports that people who are on sick leave but who have been deemed to have a good chance of returning to work with previous employers before day 365 still lose their sickness benefit after day 180. It has often been about people who have already started a part-time return to work but are not fully rehabilitated at day 180 and who as a consequence get rid of sickness benefit. These people lose their chance of being fully rehabilitated. It must be described as a huge waste of both individual people's and our common resources that this does not happen. We have therefore been in favour of the Government's proposal for an adjustment, a proposal that we Christian Democrats themselves presented last autumn when we discussed the Swedish National Audit Office's report The road to work after denied sickness benefit. It was a report that made significant criticisms of the management of the process of returning to work in the event of denied sickness benefit. Madam President, I would like According to this proposal for amendments to the Social Security Code's rules, the examination of the ability to work against normally existing jobs after day 180 should be postponed if there is a substantial change in the current situation from a specific point of view that a return to a former employer can take place before day 365. We have called for this adjustment to be accompanied by Parliament's decision to evaluate the rehabilitation process at the same time in order to ensure that rehabilitation is not delayed. We Christian Democrats defend the working line and the principle that health insurance should be designed so that a return to work should take place as quickly as possible. We all know that long-term sick leave makes the return to work more difficult. The new provision now proposed must therefore not delay the rehabilitation process. We share the concerns of Arbetsförmedlingen that the new provision may mean that the insured person, the employer and the health care service do not start rehabilitation work on time, which prevents the return to work. Our request would make it clear that rehabilitation should start as quickly as possible. Madam President, I would like Now I know that we will not have it, but if we were to get Parliament's support for an evaluation of the rehabilitation process and if this evaluation then shows that rehabilitation measures do not start in time as planned, there are, as we Christian Democrats point out, measures that can be taken and put in place. Based on the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation, we have indicated that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency can and will request more established plans from employers. It not only provides a better information base but also puts pressure on employers to comply with the legal requirements for rehabilitation processes for insured persons. Also in the sub-report An understandable and safe health insurance with a place for rehabilitation has been made proposals on how to proceed to get rehabilitation started faster. Madam President, I would like It is and remains a mystery to me why our motion is rejected here today. Looking at the reports that hopefully we've all heard of, we know that getting rehabilitation started on time is a waste of time. However, as we are now softening the requirement at day 180 for exemptions, it is at least important in my book that what already leaves a great deal to be desired is not even worse when it comes to getting a quick footwork from the parties involved, so that effective rehabilitation is started as quickly as possible.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-493	Madam President, I would like The bourgeois government made major changes in health insurance between 2006 and 2010. Among other things, it introduced the rehabilitation chain and the system of progressively narrower possibilities to maintain their sickness benefit – at ever lower levels of compensation – right up to the point where the door is completely closed. The longer deadline would sort of send sick people back to work. But you can't. If you're too sick to work, you are. It became a precipice. The Green Party voted against this proposal and has since remained very critical of the system. When the Green Party came into government together with the Social Democrats in 2014, one of the first steps was to abolish just the longer deadline. It is not reasonable to have a lower limit in this way in a security insurance policy. Somewhere from there, even sick people must have their livelihood. The measure to delete the time limit was necessary and quite self-evident. Unfortunately, however, it proved to be far from sufficient. We all see, I think, clearly that the problems of health insurance are growing. We'll meet with the sick outpatients. We are met with stories and fate that really shouldn't happen. People are too sick to work but are still denied sickness benefit or sickness benefit or are insured at one of the assessment points in the so-called – as one might say – rehabilitation chain. We meet people who have a medical certificate in one hand but with the other hand are forced to ask for support. In order to end up there, in the supply support, you must have exhausted all other means of making a living. They have lived on savings, husband or wife, friends. You might have sold a house, a car. Worst of all, you've got rid of every opportunity to come back. In the meantime, very many people testify that they are almost at war with authorities, perhaps with Försäkringskassan primarily if they are ill, with Arbetsförmedlingen, and with the municipality's social services. We hear that the government dialogue, and the process of sick leave itself, are more difficult than the disease. This doesn't apply to everyone, absolutely not. But there are too many. We can't have this. Sickness insurance doesn't work. It is not worthy of a welfare country like Sweden. Confidence in welfare is under threat. A lot of people – people who are sick – get hurt. We have to repair the health insurance! Mr President, I would like to Today we are taking a first step towards safe health insurance. The assessments after day 180 – six months of disease – are now becoming more flexible and more humane. More people will be allowed to keep their sickness benefit also during the second half of the year with sickness and absence from work. Technically, it is only in principle a word that is changed: special reasons are changed for overriding reasons, which suggest a return to work with the employer within the remaining time until day 365 of the sick leave. But words mean a lot, and it's a reduced requirement of proof. It is a good and important measure. We're on it. We've started a journey. But we're a long way from the finish line. The investigations carried out by the Green Party and the Social Democratic Government during this and the previous parliamentary term have produced a stack of reports and a host of additional proposals, and some are expected to come this spring as well. After today's decision, it is about moving forward with the corresponding change after day 365 and narrowing the labour market concept so that no one should be judged against completely unusual or fictitious jobs. It is about softer rules for older people close to retirement age. This is about the possibility of more flexible working hours in the case of part-time sick leave, which means that you should not have to work exactly as many hours every day. It is a question of increasing the security of workers in need, such as all those working in the growing gig economy. It is about the agency, Försäkringskassan, having to become more listening and more supportive throughout the entire sick leave process. It is also about some forthcoming proposals to strengthen the security of sickness and activity benefits and a lot of other things. These are proposals that have been examined, consulted, except in the part that comes now just before the summer. We need a majority of Parliament's parties to implement all these investigated proposals. The Green Party is pushing for it. But the Green Party also wants more than that. We want a more flexible and personalised sick leave process that takes a holistic approach to the individual sufferer, and which aims at rehabilitation for real and not to push the sick back to work. Rehabilitation must be initiated early, but must also be allowed to take the time it takes. We want the tough deadlines in health insurance to be transformed from what it is today, control stations with progressively tougher requirements, to instead becoming reconciliation points where progress and obstacles in rehabilitation can be lifted up and discussed so that the right to support and help is truly secured. That's what we want. In the long term, we want to investigate a new system of insurance for unemployment and illness with common levels for the two systems and where people cannot get between, or are balled between, chairs in the way that is happening today. Although health insurance is a conversion insurance, it is important that rehabilitation aims to return, as far as possible, to freshness and quality of life in the first place, and then back to work, studies or other employment. Of course, the sickness rate should be kept down. It's important. But this should be done through public health, better working hours, the working environment and through work against mental illness. But there should also be more focus on rehabilitation, for real, in health insurance. After all, this work on public health is crucial. We're still in a pandemic. It cannot, of course, be a return to normal as it was before when the pandemic is over. It can't handle health care, and it can't handle health insurance. We need to get healthier. We need to work much more on public health and much more prevention. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude with a few words on the reservations contained in the report. The Moderates fully reject and vote against the changes. Both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats lift up the pandemic and long-term illness in covid-19. For my part, I do not believe that we should involve individual diagnoses in a general health insurance legislation. However, it is always good if we can evaluate legislative changes, also on the basis of the pandemic situation we are in. But I also think that we need to wait a little bit with an evaluation because it will take time and we need more reforms on the ground. I see bourgeois rhetoric with the line of work as being at the heart of the argument for maintaining the health insurance system as it is today. But I think that rhetoric – that figure of thought with the bourgeois definition of the work line – must be changed. It keeps coming back when I meet sick and long - term ill. Not infrequently, it appears that one is ashamed of one's illness. It's the definition of the work line that's behind it, which defines what's okay and what's not. It is not really labour that is important in the line of work but wage labour, which defines what is inside bourgeois rhetoric. Everything else, including voluntary work, or even studies, seems to be defined as exclusion and shame, but above all illness. If we get away from that rhetoric, the bourgeois definition of the wage line, I think much is won. Mr President, I would like to I have now stayed a little too long in my speech and only in that part of the report concerning new rules for safer health insurance. There are also other parts of the report, including one on the right to unemployment benefit in relation to activities to a limited extent. That's where the Green Party has a reservation. I am in favour of reservation number 4 and otherwise of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-517	Mr President, I would like to In my previous speech, I just said our reservation. It is reservation number 2 that is at issue, so that I am over-clear there and it will be right. Thank you, Mr Berglund, for your speech. I agree that we need more personalised and flexible health insurance. That is also the reason for our reservation. If I have not missed anything, neither the Social Democrats nor the Green Party have endeavoured to respond to it in their speeches. Therefore, I would now like to ask why the government and the Green Party are saying no to our reservation. It is about making it more flexible. If you are today 180 and it is estimated that you can return to your employer within 365 days but only part-time, there is still a very high risk of being insured. That is why we have put forward the follow-up motion and the proposal for the government to investigate. This is exactly what functional law Sweden says, as National Collaboration for Mental Health says and as Saco says. It should suffice to demand a return to part-time work if it is possible to return to the same level later. Why is the Green Party opposed to this when Mrs Berglund is at the same time talking out for more personalised health insurance? For example, it may be a nurse who has covid-19. Perhaps it is someone who is burned out and has great opportunities to return to his employer. Maybe it's not the workplace that's the problem. Then you have to change for such reasons. But if it is not the workplace that is the problem, it may just be that you need a little more time and can return to 50%, 25% or less and then gradually increase. Why does the government object to meeting the wishes of the consultation bodies in order to obtain a more humane, flexible and personalised health insurance?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-523	Mr President, I would like to I know that Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats, as well as the Green Party, want more than what we are doing today. I think we need to present the proposals at the pace we have time for. They need to be evaluated and investigated so that we get the right decision. We must not make wrong decisions. I also think, as I was clearly in my speech, that we need to move forward and see this as a first step. One can of course have views that things are going too slowly and that we should have done this earlier, but it is still the case that we have been investigating these things for a long time and very carefully. There have been several investigations, and as I said, there are more in the pipeline. In fact, I do not have much more to say than that I hope that we can now continue and that we see the change today as just a first step and not as a conclusion to the reforms of health insurance. We see clearly – I think it applies to both Julia Kronlid and others – that there is a need for changes and that it is not enough just to push the authorities. We need legislation, and we need to put our foot down clearly. I intend to continue to press the government to make more proposals.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-527	Mr President, I would like to I agree with what Mr Berglund says; I think it has taken far too long. We have criticised the 180-day limit since the 2018 elections. We also put forward another proposal in addition to this that part-time work should be sufficient. The latter I do not think I got a clear answer to. I don't know why the government opposes it. An inquiry has been carried out that has been referred to, and you get referrals with good suggestions on how to adjust this and make it even better. I still do not understand why the government does not provide for this. In addition to this, we have another part of our reservation, where we say that the government should investigate the possibility of limiting the examination to its own area of competence at day 180. One should therefore be given the opportunity to be tested against one's own area of competence and rehabilitated to it if there is a prospect that one can return to it within 365 days. In this way, you can avoid these trials that are done against fictional fantasy jobs. There is also a similar proposal in the investigation in the State's public investigations by Claes Jansson that it should be a specified work. We want the stated work to be within one's own area of experience and competence. We have proposed this since 2018. Why has the Green Party voted against it too? And why can the government not take on board the proposal we have to limit the examination within its own area of competence in the investigations that are being carried out and in what it is aiming to change further in the future? Why does the Green Party vote against investigating further making health insurance more humane and more personalised and flexible – just what the Green Party says it wants to achieve?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-532	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, also for this suggestion that the examination should be specified in the area of competence you have! What Claes Jansson has investigated is that it should be specified normal work and that it should be within a larger sjok. I understand that the Swedish Democrats want to narrow it further. I think that is an interesting point of view and an interesting thought. On the other hand, it will be a greater departure from today's system to do so. That the doctor can indicate a job that the Social Insurance Agency can also do – that's probably the way the system should be built – is about finding a job that the patient should be able to manage in an area. In fact, that part should not be narrowed in too much, because the sick want to go to work as soon as possible, as soon as you are healthy and as soon as you are able to do a job. Few sick people want to be home just to be home. I therefore believe that it is unnecessary to narrow the labour market too much. It is better to work for the sick person to find a job. I appreciate that the Swedish Democrats want to go further, just like the Green Party and just like the Social Democrats. It can go a little slow, because it is a matter of a government to find support in the Riksdag for the proposals it makes. Otherwise, it's pretty pointless. It is, of course, a problem for the Swedish Democrats when you see that your future government partners in the Moderates vote flatly no even to this first little simple step. Now perhaps Julia Kronlid will not be allowed to answer this. But it is a problem for the Swedish Democrats, you have to say – and for the Moderates.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-537	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by telling you that I have operated on my sinuses, so I find it difficult to wear the mouthguard and at the same time be able to breathe. But I've kept my distance – not only politically but also purely spatially – from the others in this Chamber, so I think it'll be fine anyway. The second apology I would like to make, Mr President, is that although I have reported absolutely the longest speaking time here today, I will probably have to pull something over because of things that have come up in the debate. I have not had the opportunity to ask for a reply because I am not speaking until now. But I think it'll be fine. You'll have lunch sometime. Mr President, I would like to Today we are once again taking a decision on something that the Left Party has pushed through through through a committee initiative – this time to ensure that small businesses too can get through the Corona crisis. Small entrepreneurs must be entitled to unemployment benefit, and their businesses should not have to fail because of the rigid rules that prevent them from taking in some jobs that small entrepreneurs need to do in order to survive. Large companies such as Volvo and Sandvik do dividends, and at the same time it is stingy when it comes to the survival of the country's small businesses. We think that is wrong, and I am pleased that the Left Party has been able to push this through. No one can say that the Left Party is in the gallery, exactly. Mr President, I would like to It should be fun to break records – something to celebrate. But that's no way to say it feels when it comes to health insurance. The Alliance, which we have heard here through the Moderates – which only talks about the policy of the Social Democrats – became Swedish champions as early as 2008 when today's system was introduced. They emerged as healers of the new age who, unlike Sweden's accumulated medical corps, medical expertise and the current state of research, were only able to cure 90 000 sick people by means of a magic spell. Simsalabim, they were healthy! Under the new law and the criteria of the treasury, the new rehab chain performed miracles. Lama could not only stand up and walk, but, according to the Authority's assessment, they could almost run a marathon. Not being able to stand on your feet was mostly a matter of attitude. Choose joy, chant the choir. And the insurance continued. Mr President, I would like to Along with S and MP, the Left Party removed the lower time limit. The Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, who were also in the gas here earlier, did not give up the competition so easily. They voted to reintroduce the so-called precipice stock as late as 2017. This was paired by the S- and MP government, but instead the government began to fix its own miracle cure, which it was kept pretty quiet about from up here. Soon the gold medal in terms of the number of assurances was secured for them. When in 2015, the S- and MP government introduced the target of nine sick days on average per person per year, it quadrupled with the deadlines we are talking about today without any change in legislation. Gud's gift to man is the Holy Trinity: the Social Insurance Fund, the rehab chain and the magical deadlines. Last year, in the midst of a burning pandemic, Sweden's record was broken in the number of insured people. It's incredible – it's hardly that you think it's true! Mr President, I would like to People didn't get healthier, but they got sicker from the treatment they received from the system. It is a scandal and a great shame for a so-called welfare country. Not to be believed is the height of humiliation. That's how you destroy a human being. Not only is the Left Party critical – researchers call it a legal scandal that Sweden does not ensure that people have the right to safety in the event of illness and that it works before introducing another Austrian grant. It's horrifying. Only the Left Party prioritised the removal of the additional tax on sick leave rather than the removal of the tax on those who earn nearly 60 000 a month. People have not become poor; they have been made poor by political decisions in this House. Mr President, I would like to Corona has made many people realize that we can all get sick. There's only the quack's empty defense speech left, but no one steps forward and says, "We confess." It went wrong. Now we take responsibility for it. We just can't have it, least of all the Moderates, who, even today, hold on crampedly to the rock-hard trial at day 180. Mr President, I would like to Imagine that a pandemic would be needed in order for more politicians to begin to understand that illness or disability is not something you choose but something you suffer from. We are today facing a small step in the direction of a more humane health insurance. It may feel like an ant step, and it is clearly far too little, but just a few months ago far more than the Moderates prevented a change. Today there is another sound in the bark. We in the Left Party, together with all of you who are active in various roll-calls to change health insurance, have baxat the government and other parties in front of us. I want to thank you very much. I want you to know that you've made the whole difference. After all, the victory that we are celebrating today is yours: Daniel, Peter, Charlotte, Pirjo, Irja, Lippe and many more. You, who do not even have anything to gain for yourself, for you have already been taken away most of it, have shown fellowship and kindness in the real sense of the words. Mr President, I would like to I hope they too will soon get something back. Give those who have been secured over the years with system errors their SGI back! Give them financial compensation and the satisfaction they deserve and are entitled to! The Left Party has proposed a crisis commission to do just that. Unfortunately, all the other parties voted against. Where's the concern? Where's the community? I can't find any words! I'm ashamed to be a politician. Can't we do better than that? Mr President, I would like to Försäkringskassan is an authority with low trust. I noted that the Moderates used their opinion on changing rules as some kind of authority argument, while it was felt that legislative changes were not necessary, but it was the Authority itself that would implement the changes. At the same time, the Left Party's proposal for an independent inquiry into this particular authority was rejected. There is, therefore, much more to be desired in this regard. The Social Insurance Agency enjoys a low level of trust, and it is clear that government governance has been compromised. We have pointed it out many times. The Left Party has tried to find decisive compromises. We have not only tabled once, but twice, proposals for an independent scrutiny. Unfortunately, we have not got the majority for that. Despite the signal that a generous examination is needed, insurance policies have increased. The Social Insurance Agency seems completely doped and sanitizes people at a supernal rate. This year it will be gold, silver and bronze – yes, all pallet seats have been won. You're just unstoppable! Doctor's certificate is not a free note. It cannot stop this machine, the insurance machine, as researcher Niklas Altermark writes in his book on health insurance. Mr President, I would like to I return to the low level of confidence in the Authority. The Social Security Inspectorate writes in a report:- But it is problematic that the percentage of refusals and grantings can commute significantly without any change in legislation or case law, not least from a legal certainty point of view. But what does Försäkringskassan do? Well, you take matters into your own hands. Through Director General Nils Öberg it is announced that it is ready to receive the criticism that exists, but it should not be done through an external search. That fight can't be won. Instead, the authority will investigate itself. In addition to this feeling a bit like a rigged match where the result is predestined, there is a great risk that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the government blame each other: It was you who started! No, it was you! I'd like to give the same advice as to an old couple who are fighting: Oh, my God, bring in someone from outside who knows what it's talking about, before it's too late! Although Försäkringskassan is in focus, legislative changes need to be made. It sounded like it wasn't necessary before. What you do when you develop a law change is to develop new preparatory work, which describes what will apply to the authority. New control and new preparatory work are what is needed. The reason why the Moderates reject both our proposal for independent review and the proposals for new laws is that they do not want more people to be entitled to sickness benefit. Mr President, I would like to The assistant nurse Christine Udding, whom I have come to know, was infected with covid-19 at work. She got long-term ill but was denied sickness benefit. Instead of getting paid extra for her bet, she now pays by using her own vacation. She is one of many who have stepped in when society needed them, but society was not there for her. Everything takes such time, and as time passes, more and more people are affected by the system. 中 Normally occurring jobs are found only in the fantasy world of the Social Insurance Agency. If you are already unemployed when you fall ill, you will meet this already on day 1. While politicians are bickering, people are dying in health insurance. February 8 was the anniversary of Linneas's death. Linnea later got it right, but then she was already dead. Linnea is not alone. Too many people see no other way out. It's immensely sad. Mr President, I would like to The fact that Christine and other sick people have gone out for a long time and told me about what it actually looks like, I am absolutely convinced, is the strongest reason why the Left Party heard the demand to soften the assessment at day 180. What we're about to decide today should be called lex Christine. My call is: let go of prestige and party politics! Now show that it is possible to solve this! Be there for those who have been there for us! Let us feel that we have done everything in our power to ensure that what has happened to Linnea does not have to happen again! Let go of the call for conversion during the pandemic! Change the test at day 365, and require the cashier to enter work! Because the trial was paused so late, Christine never got to take part of it. She had already been insured and had been denied when she appealed. How many more people who have done everything right should we treat so wrong before we can mess up what is necessary for health insurance to work? The Left Party wants insurance that acts as an insurance and gives the right to security in the event of illness or disability. The entire health insurance and rehabilitation chain must be re-established. The sharp deadlines need to be removed, and rehabilitation needs to be more personalised and realistic. Medical certificates shall be valid. A person who is chronically ill or who has a disability must be entitled to permanent compensation. Today, reference is made to Arbetsförmedlingen but is told there that you are too sick to get help to work while Försäkringskassan believes that you are healthy as a nut core. Something's wrong, really wrong. Mr President, I would like to We have been told in the debate that it is primarily long-term illness in covid-19 that is affected and that regulatory changes are needed to assist only that group. First of all, the Conservative Right is not even on the right side of the plane, it seems. The question is, do they even know what their own yard is? In fine terms, it describes how they want to fight for the long - term sufferers. The truth is that they voted down such a proposal that I tabled already last autumn. Secondly, it is not possible to exclude individual diagnoses, diagnosis of symptoms, in legislation, especially these. There would only be one blow in the air because many of those who have residual symptoms of covid-19 could not with certainty get that diagnosis today in the care. Thirdly, there are many more people with various diseases who are affected. Today's system is based on assessed work capacity, not on your diagnosis. One of these people is my father, who has the cancer myeloma. The care didn't understand why his back suddenly collapsed. The man who has always worked 16 hours a day and had a building in progress now moves with a walker. Myelom breaks down the skeleton, but the medical department thought he had a fracture of the vertebrae and herniated disks. He lost nearly 20 kilos. We still felt safe. He had been x-rayed, and they had said that he did not have cancer. But the pain became unbearable, and he was hospitalized several times. Finally, a blood sample was taken, and he had to go straight to the hematologist. Because of a restraining order, as you all know, he had to face the first shock himself: that he has an incurable cancer that hopefully can be inhibited. Today he is in for the last round of treatment with powerful chemo. Even before that, however, he was told that his sickness benefit, which expires in a week or so after completion of treatment, is not to be extended by day 365. The only thing straight if we want to be able to look at ourselves in the mirror is to pause the assessment and also do something about this deadline. Mr President, I would like to I promise that I will soon finish my speech. Soon we are heading for brighter times, it is said. Hopefully it can mean a more free life after the corona. At the same time, for this group it is still shrivelly. One seems to think that the sick person is some kind of alien who can survive on air. The allowance and the ceiling of the housing allowance must be increased. Social security contributions have long been around the same level, but payments have been reduced over time by 100 billion. It is we wage earners who have paid in to health insurance with our abandoned pay space. This is our right. It's not a handout. We've earned this. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. No Sherlock Holmes is needed to figure out where this money has gone. During this period, the Alliance reduced the tax by about the same amount. Those who earned the most got the most. The January parties now continue with the same kind of distribution curve. Only this year will the tax be reduced by 30 billion. The world record in the fastest increased divides is unsurprisingly held by Sweden – where we are number one. Neoliberalism is dead, says the Minister of Finance. And she continues to run into the wall with the Center as a navigator and with the Liberals who are constantly threatening to jump off on the move. In the luggage lies the Environmental Party, seemingly satisfied with electric car premiums and plastic bag taxes. The money is therefore no longer spent on compensation schemes, but on those who earn the most. Forget the petty thieves! Here's the big scam. Mr President, I would like to After all, I feel hope. There's no longer a contest about who's the best at chasing sick people. Instead, it is now those who are defending unjust health insurance that are under pressure, and they may have. ( THE PRESIDENT: The time reported was exceeded by more than 50%, I note quietly. )
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-581	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there is no mistake about Mr Gabrielsson's great commitment to a more humane health insurance. That is something for which I have great respect. I am therefore extremely surprised that the Left Party is not prepared today to support our proposal that it should be enough to return to work part-time after one year's sick leave in order to avoid the examination of the whole labour market. I know that the Left Party may want to go even further with regard to the trial at day 180, as we also want in various ways. This applies, for example, to a limitation to its own area of competence. But I think that the Left Party should choose the alternative part-time if the choice is to return to work at the same level in order to avoid the test or that it is enough to return to work part-time. Or why does the honourable Member, Gabrielsson, think that a person who has been on sick leave for 180 days should be tried against the entire labour market and risk being insured simply because it is considered that the person can only work part-time after 365 days?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-584	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for taking a line on me! The Left Party believes that we do not need to investigate such an issue. The Left Party, when this proposal was presented by the government, tried to exercise on rather concrete measures. However, as Julia Kronlid also knows, it is not possible with the regulations we have to propose something that costs more than what the government has in its supplementary amending budget. It's simply that I think we're going to vote on the Left Party's proposals on how to bring about such a change – we want someone to investigate – in a few months' time. Otherwise, I think that we in committee or elsewhere should make proposals that can be implemented right now. We should not propose further investigations into a system in which the Left Party absolutely does not believe. The Left Party believes that the system of sharp deadlines and the rehabilitation chain, which is not based on people and individuals at all, and the system which makes it impossible to obtain permanent compensation should be abolished and replaced by something else. We want to investigate this, and we have also proposed it. There are sharp proposals on the table today, which means that something is happening for real, right now. That is what I support.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-588	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of the difficulty of exercising on the basis of an amending budget. We had a strong proposal that we should vote today to ensure that part-time work would actually be sufficient. That is what we put forward, but the only thing that was possible was for the government to evaluate this. While we have a proposal on the table that this should be evaluated in order for the government to be able to come back with a proposal that it should be enough to return to work part-time, it is probably better that the Left Party supports it. It is not too late – the vote is at 4 p.m. It is better to support it than nothing at all or the bill. We have also had strong proposals, and we will have them in future reports. It is a question of limiting the examination at day 180 to its own area of competence. If we agree on this, perhaps the Left Party will consider supporting such a sharp proposal in the future in a forthcoming report. But what is on the table today is this report. Then it is clear that the Left Party chooses to vote in favour of the Government's proposal, that it should be the same level as before, instead of supporting the proposal to evaluate the possibility of returning to work part-time. I am thinking of the options that are on the table today. Why does the Left Party choose to vote for it to be the same level as before instead of sending a clear signal to the government that part-time work is enough?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-593	Mr President, I would like to It will somehow be a little silly if we are to have a discussion on voting issues. The reason why we were not allowed to present the proposals ourselves was that we must not do anything that increases costs. We don't want to investigate and lock ourselves in this system. These are not our proposals. Our investigation proposals are about abolishing the rehabilitation chain and the deadlines that exist. I understand that the Swedish Democrats and Julia Kronlid do not support this, because they voted in favour of introducing a longer deadline and the precipice as late as 2017. Our proposal as to what it would look like in health insurance with the sick's economy was put forward in the budget. There, we were the only party that gave priority to removing the extra tax for the sick, while Julia Kronlid's party prioritised allowing high-income earners to receive another tax relief in accordance with the government's proposal. That is what the question is about for me. We don't want to get stuck in this rigid system. If there are concrete changes and proposals that take steps we are in favour of. We're always there for you. We'll never back away from that. If something is to be investigated for the future, we will push hard that it is another system and another policy that should apply. What was sad, however, was when the Swedish Democrats, together with their partners, the Moderates, who here showed what they think, voted down the Left Party's demand for redress for those who have been insured and to review the possibility of introducing an SGI to them. That's sad.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-598	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are in favour of a welcome proposal and a good step along the way – thank you! The Coronandem affects us all and has really changed the world. Not only do we realise that there will have been one world before and another after– the pandemic also affects our lives in a way that few things have done in the past. Things that used to be quite small and everyday have become very central and important to us. Never have we longed so long for a coffee date, a common dinner, a hug or something as simple as a handshake. The pandemic has exposed things that we have all long thought of, not wanted to see or simply wanted to forget. The pandemic has exposed failures and shortcomings that have been there for a long time, but which have now become clearer and more serious. Mr President, I would like to Everyone should be able to feel safe in both short-term and long-term illness. The health insurance system should ensure that all people have a livelihood in case they fall ill. Sickness insurance should be active and adapted to the sick person so that more people return to work as quickly as possible. Mr President, I would like to These are simple and true words but have become a grace to pray for still. Fixed periods of sick leave, as many speakers have mentioned here today, and an individual assessment of work capacity actually provide a more active process of sick leave. It's very important. In fact, the work line and the rehabilitation chain, including what many have mentioned, have been both good and necessary, Mr President, and have brought more and more people back to work. Sick leave does not go on indefinitely without someone actually caring, without authorities, employers and those on sick leave thinking together about how the way back will be and how it can be. Mr President, I would like to For quite some time now, however, it has become increasingly clear that the Social Insurance Agency, with the good memory of the government, has allowed the application to slip away to something that has never been the purpose, where the regulatory approach has taken over the medical and rigid rules that overshadows the individual, medical and rehabilitation efforts that are needed. Mr President, I would like to The Pandemin has highlighted the major drawbacks of the current regulatory framework and the fact that the application of concepts such as our special reasons is contributing to the fact that the Social Insurance Agency does not take rehabilitation measures, but instead takes care of people and puts them aside. It has become so clear that even the authority now sees it and wants to investigate itself, which is a very strange way of handling itself. But it is another debate. The Agency also has difficulties in applying medically required interventions and time horizons in various diagnosis of symptoms. Covid-19 has been mentioned, as has long-term covid. We also see it very clearly in the psychiatric diagnoses as fatigue syndrome and a number of others, where long periods of illness actually become the effect. As I said, the problem has been further reinforced by the proliferation of covid-19 and an increasing number of long-term covids. That is why it is good and necessary for us today to make health insurance more flexible and more individualised and to go back to more transparency and intelligibility. A review of normal work at day 180 will now be possible if the main reason for returning to work with the employer before day 365 is the same as before the sick leave. I have to admit, Mr President, that the Swedish Democrats have a point in the fact that it would have made sense to be able to also look at other entry periods in working time in order to get back to work. We are not there today, and it seems complicated to get there. However, I am pleased with the report that is on the table today. Mr President, I would like to It must therefore be sufficient to speak more in favour of returning to work with the employer than against in order to postpone the assessment of normal work. In today's reversed world, where the application of the Social Insurance Agency has slipped away, it is the opposite. Mr President, I would like to Every sick person has the right to a safe assessment and the right rehabilitation measures. Each doctor and administrator must also have a good working environment at the same time and be able to carry out their core task – collaboration. Their goals require a change in the process of sick leave. During covid-19, the border has been moved several times for when a sick leave must require a medical certificate. A number of limits have been moved in the compensation systems, and now we are moving the deadline. The risk of infection spreading is one of the reasons, but also that sick leave in everyday life, already before, takes an enormous amount of time from Sweden's doctors, healthcare professors, administrators and decision-makers – time that simply no longer exists when the pandemic rages. Liberals have proposed a series of measures that provide safer and more transparent insurance, while at the same time providing a better working environment, strengthening patient safety and wiser use of resources. We will come up with more proposals later. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals believe that the Social Insurance Agency's coordination mission, not least with health care, employers and the Public Employment Service, must be significantly strengthened. It is quite unreasonable that it is now taking a year away before the Social Insurance Agency holds a first reconciliation meeting with the employer of a sick person. It has to happen a lot, a lot earlier. The Social Insurance Agency must become a partner and not an opponent of sick people in a joint effort for a sick person to return. Today's report is an important part of this. Finally, Mr President, contacts with the authorities in general and with the Social Insurance Agency in particular must be simple, manageable and valuable even for those who are ill. Authorities can be absolutely crucial to us when we need support, but today people in contact with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency can often feel almost administratively exhausted – possibly a new diagnosis. Of course, there is a need for documentation and documentation, but the overall goal must be to lift the population and give them opportunities. Mr President, I would like to We have to skimp on unnecessary things, but we must never skimp on consideration.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-612	Mr President, I would like to The reason why we are standing here today is that, among other things, the Left Party took part in a committee initiative that started the debate. The study of proposals to soften the deadline has been in place for a long time. During the ensuing debate, it became clear that the hardest brake ball to make the less softening was the Liberals. It was also something that the Liberal spokesperson on economic issues stood for in the Chamber in a change of line with us in the Left Party. It is said that there is no majority in Parliament for various proposals. It seems that either you don't have one another in the negotiating room or you can't count. The Left Party is in favour, and other parties claim to be in favour – so a majority exists to introduce everything. The only reason could be if the Liberals say that you are dropping out, not only on some immigration issue, but also on health insurance issues. Then some form of government crisis is seen. That's the only thing I can understand would be the basis. Is Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals prepared to join us in a government crisis? Or can we see that these proposals will be implemented further if Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals decide?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-616	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ida Gabrielsson for the questions. We can first put aside the question of a government crisis or not. What we are talking about is honouring agreements, and that applies to all parties. That is why I am adding that question. These discussions are taking place on issues quite different from those we are debating today and in very different fora from what we are debating today. We must keep separate negotiations with the government on the various parts of health insurance. Today we are debating a long-term change along the path that the Liberals and the People's Party were already debating at the country meeting at that time. These are steps along this path of going back to fixed deadlines and fixed reconciliation points that give people the opportunity to get back to work. They give reconciliation and power forward in the processes, not to move people into a obscure world of endless sick leave. One thing we can state in the debate, namely that it was not better before. We are not going back to the time where the usual way out was, as it was then called, to become a disability pensioner. Effective and good rehabilitation chains are needed, and proper time is needed for health care and other interventions around the sick person to be such that you can get back to your life.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-620	Mr President, I would like to I still have to say it was better before. I can sound a little mussy when I say it, but I stand by it. I've had sickness benefits myself, and I've come back. I still think that it is a bit successful if you have entered the Riksdag and can do the work there. There's been a new drug. I can still stand by that. I didn't really get the answer to my question about day 180. Will Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals support an additional deadline of day 365 and the proposal that exists to indicate work? Is it the Liberals who stop and prevent us from seeing the proposal on Parliament's table? Or is it something the government blames? Does Bengt Eliasson sometimes feel that the questions asked or the proposals put forward are unclear? Among other things, I have seen a proposal from Bengt Eliasson to stop the betrayal of the sick. He wants to set up an independent investigation into the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Did Bengt Eliasson miss my proposals that the Liberals voted down three days before Christmas? They were about stopping the betrayal and doing an independent search. Is Bengt Eliasson prepared to come forward with the proposal for LSS and sick people together with me?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-624	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ida Gabrielsson for the questions. I have to admit that rehabilitation works and that the development of medical technology in various ways has been brilliant. This is a good example of Ida Gabrielsson herself. I pay tribute to this work, which I am sure the honourable Member himself has made a strong contribution to with will and knowledge. Let me be clear. Liberals' attitude is that the rehabilitation chain and the work line are very important to hold on to. It is not a question of putting forward proposals that involve a return to sick leave where there are no boundaries or reconciliation points at all, nor a close interaction with the patient with all the necessary efforts, not just employers and the Employment Service, the Social Insurance Agency and the health care system. There may be a wide range of social interventions around the sick person. All of this must come together and have fixed reconciliation points during the sick leave process in order to lead back to a life. I have described this in my speech, in motions and in my previous reply to Ida Gabrielsson. That is the clear path. Ida Gabrielsson himself said that one is against today's system as a whole. It's not us. We want to develop today's health insurance into something much better, but we are not against the whole. I doubt that we will come up with joint proposals on this point.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-628	Mr President, I would like to A number of years ago, the Liberals did not want to touch us with pliers, so I jumped to my place a little when I heard that Mr Eliasson said that our proposal in this report was still quite sensible. I am pleased with the developments we have seen over the years, that is to say that we can now respectfully discuss and debate various substantive proposals on which we agree or disagree. However, if Mr Eliasson now likes our proposal that it may be enough to return part-time after a year, I wonder why the Liberals cannot support our reservation today. It concerns the question of the government evaluating and investigating the proposal and making the change even better. That is my specific question: if it is a sensible proposal, why not support it, Mr Eliasson?
i-LSpmrj24HLAgFwwXkeeztM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! After reading the proposal, I listened to those who are very respected and knowledgeable in the field. Because they pointed out that there may be consequences and parts that will be quite insurmountable or difficult to implement in reality if only this proposal is incorporated. That is why we do not support the proposal today. We would also delay today's decision, and I do not really want that to happen. But to look further at what it could mean and then to include it in proposals in the future, I definitely have nothing against. The important thing now is to get this on track. Now we are living in a transitional period, with a temporary decision running, and what we are debating today will be firm. It is important that it is in place. When we start to get follow-ups within a year or so we may be able to develop. The government has promised to come back quite soon with follow-ups of the effects it will have in reality. I'm prepared to look at things that can be done even better. I still think that the Swedish Democrats' proposal in this part, on the return to time-limited work where you are employed, is worth looking further at in order to be able to supplement it with the latter.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-633	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Liberals think the proposal makes sense. However, I want to make it clear that our reservation is certainly not about rejecting this today simply because it is not exactly what we want in this regard. Of course, we are behind the amendment of the law and certainly do not want to stop it in any way. Our announcement is only about the government evaluating it further and then returning, as the honourable Member Eliasson points out. I think we agree that what is on the table today is to be implemented, end of story. Then the government can also evaluate our small to l egg proposal that it should also be possible to return part-time. I still think that Mr Eliasson should consider supporting the proposal. Maybe there won't be a majority for it anyway. But it would have been nice to have a discussion about it in committee and perhaps a majority for it. But we will come back to the issue. I hope that Eliasson can convey this to contacts in the government and remember where the proposal came from. In other contexts, we have put forward various proposals as committee initiatives, and then seen that they come as proposals from the government. How the opposition has pressed is then forgotten. I hope it's not forgotten this time. I also hope that Mr Eliasson will be able to bring the proposal to the government so that we can have a more humane health insurance. It is a major problem when a person has been ill for a long time and is still ill but can still return to his employer in small steps and may eventually return to work. Otherwise, we get people who need to be changed and retrained unnecessarily for the labour market. We may lose valuable nurses who, for example, are long - term patients in covid. I assume that Eliasson will take the proposal further so that it can become a reality.
i-FV9p7YptBngNSC2oY5vQoG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid. Of course, as I said in my speech, the Liberals are in favour of and support a more flexible and clear health insurance which is understandable to people and which is becoming much more individualised than today. This means that there are a number of different limitations on how much you get to work. And the pace at which you can get back to work must be much more flexible. On this point, I think we are in complete agreement. How the proposals are presented, picked up and described, Julia Kronlid may turn to the government parties. It's not something I control. I can only play a part in influencing the policies that the Liberals are pursuing and which we ourselves are developing. In discussions with the government, we can influence the cooperation in January. Otherwise, it is the government parties that are in charge of this. All parties in this House will have to come back to the important issues of health insurance and actually discuss how to make it sharper, better and more individual, so that it works for people in their daily lives and really as an insurance to get back to work in the event of simple or severe illness. We fully agree on that.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-641	Mr President, I would like to Sickness benefit shall be an income loss insurance that provides support to the individual who is unable to go to work because of illness. It shall support a return to an existing job or possibly another job if necessary. The rehabilitation chain is in place to support return. It's good. It sets time limits for the examination of sick leave against existing work, employer or other work. This means that the focus should be kept on rehabilitation all the time, and there should be a plan for each person on sick leave so that you can come back. This is something that we in the Center Party support. It is also important that there is an ongoing plan. Where the assessment is that one should be able to return to one's existing work, that plan should also be implemented. It is Försäkringskassan that handles and makes assessments of whether you are fit for work or whether you should continue to receive sickness benefit. When it comes to the rehabilitation chain and the assessment at 180 days, the Social Insurance Agency has made an interpretation; although there is ongoing rehabilitation that is expected to lead to the person's return to their regular work, many applications for sickness benefit are rejected. The person is then referred to looking for a job in the rest of the labour market. Of course it's not good. If rehabilitation is ongoing, it must be possible to continue with it before being tested against the rest of the labour market. There is simply a need for clarification here. Current regulations create uncertainty for the sick but actually also for the company that wants its employees back. If there is a good chance of coming back within a reasonable time, it is also clearly the best thing for all involved. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party defends the work line, as most people feel good about going to work or studying and feeling that they have a value and a job that generates income and contributes to our common welfare in the country. For this to work, a focus on early rehabilitation is needed, so that the sick person is properly helped to return to work or try a new job. Here the government must tighten up its governance of Försäkringskassan, so as to provide early support and coordinate around the sick person. There is a need for coordination of efforts from healthcare and the employer and, in some cases, from the Public Employment Service in order for an individual to receive the right support. Mr President, I would like to In this context, it is important to mention that further clarification is needed in order for us to have a better rehabilitation chain. This is something that the Center Party works for and operates. What we are talking about now is called specified work, that is to say that Försäkringskassan needs to specify what kind of work they estimate a sick person can take in case one cannot return to his existing employer. This is needed in order to increase clarity and confidence in the assessment of entitlement to sickness benefit. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that the other changes proposed in the report are also good. They mean that individual entrepreneurs can continue to handle smaller parts of the company, such as updating a website, while still having unemployment benefits. It is an advantage for them to be able to start their business again when the pandemic starts to ease. Mr President, I would like to With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3okXG994gR3sjhQrtQ3vkF	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for your speech. In the Alliance, the Moderates and the Center Party did many good things together. Among other things, we took important steps in many areas to establish the work line. Of course, there are many of us who are very concerned about the development of health insurance. Since the Social Democrats took over, the number of rejections after day 180 in health insurance has increased significantly. But the legislation is the same. It is the government's lack of leadership and governance that has led us to where we are today. There have been serious criticisms from the Swedish National Audit Office against Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and state employers. They lack in their efforts to make it easier for people who have been on sick leave to return to work. Many sick leavers are not offered a conversion meeting, and there is therefore no documentation in every three sick leave cases with state employers, on average. But instead of sweeping your own door and doing what you should do – use the important rehabilitation chain and ensure that all parties live up to their commitments according to it – the Parliament is given the task of producing new legislation, which strikes very broad and risks that many sick people stay longer outside the labour market. I am not at all surprised that the Social Democrats are taking the pandemic as an excuse to start dismantling the work line and instead introduce a subsidy line. What surprises me is that the Center Party chooses to support them in that work. It is not just about this change, but there will be more that will take us in that direction.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-656	Mr President, I would like to I do not note any question from Maria Stenergard, but just a continued argument, which she should perhaps have raised in her speech instead. I note that I myself highlighted the lack of leadership and governance on the part of the government. But when we in the Center Party say that it is not enough, we will act in Parliament, which we have now done. It was we who presented this committee initiative in the Social Security Committee because we see that there are problems; the Moderates themselves highlight many of them. This is legislation requested by many companies, which sees that the employee and the sick can return to the same work as before and that they do not have to recruit new staff. This means greater security, both for the employee and for the company, and in itself creates great value in society. This is therefore something that is welcome and, of course, will be used when you see that it provides the opportunity to just get back to the same work. Of course, it does not replace other efforts that need to be made in the rehabilitation chain and by Försäkringskassan, but it is an important key to making our economy work a little better.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-659	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for your answer! I share the Centre Party's frustration that government leadership and governance are lacking and that the authorities are not doing what they are supposed to do. But I think that it is very easy for us to take on the responsibility of improving what the government cannot achieve through legislation. The problem is that you do not meet at all the groups that would need support. What you do instead is, in a fairly accurate way, dismantle the work line and, generally speaking, for all groups, make it easier to stay longer in sick leave. This means deeper exclusion and that those actors in health insurance who should be doing a job are in danger of postponing the measures to be taken. This, for example, raises the Social Insurance Agency as a concern. Instead, I believe that we should focus on the specific problems we see, such as long-term covid-19 disease. We know that science does not know enough about the long-term effects, and it is justified to make a temporary exception. Instead, one chooses to make a permanent exception, which means that many will unfortunately be allowed to stay longer in exclusion. Another area where I think you would have to make an adjustment is psychiatric diagnoses, which are increasing avalanche. We would like to see a special rehabilitation chain for those who have suffered, for example, stress-related diseases and need a completely different rehabilitation from, for example, a broken foot. To be clear with my questions: How does the Center Party view the risk of using the Center Party to roll back the work line and introduce the subsidy line? And how does the Center Party view a special rehabilitation chain for psychiatric diagnoses?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-664	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit exciting when Maria Malmer Stenergard says that the Center Party takes responsibility and implements legislation. This is something that the Moderates often do in parliament, through various committee initiatives and other things and simply pushing the government in the direction you want. It is normal policy that we conduct here in Parliament; it happens all the time, not least in the Committee on Finance. I look forward to the Moderates then stopping making proposals, for example on budgetary rules and other things, which have recently frequently gone against the budgetary rules and frameworks that we have. It's, I think, a little strange criticism that Maria Malmer Stenergard makes. The Moderates would also like to explain – now Maria Malmer Stenergard can not do so in one line here, but otherwise – how to make this delimitation legally safe and how to make it work in a good way if you only have to pinpoint people who are long-term sick in covid. These are rather diffuse diagnoses and are therefore simply not possible. It is really easy to bounce back the questions to the Moderates, who do not have the concrete answers in terms of how to deal with this in reality. What I can see is that the Center Party has pushed for a proposal that will make it better for the company but, above all, for the patient, when you see that he will be able to return to work in the short future. This will benefit the economy and the work line as well as the sufferer.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-667	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would really like to thank the Center Party for joining the Left Party's committee initiative and just the next day agreed that we should do what is happening today: that we should have a relief at day 180. This – that it came from more parties – I think contributed to this happening and went so fast after all the years of waiting, even during the period since the investigation came. This is precisely what was proposed by both the Left Party and the Center Party. But the Center then took it back to the meeting, and we did not have to take a stand on it. Now I am pleased to hear that it is specified work that should apply. Then it feels like it must be the Liberals who cannot accept this, because why is it not put forward? Why can it not be part of what we are about to consider today? That would help a lot of people. Especially those who are already unemployed would have another chance. My question to the Center Party is: are you prepared to fight for the inclusion of specified work? And are you also prepared to review the next deadline to clarify, through legislation, what will apply to the conversion date of 365?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-670	Mr President, I would like to How other parties reason is allowed to stand for them. The Center Party has reasoned in line with the committee initiative we put forward – it was Solveig Zander who presented it on our behalf. That is also what we have before us now. We think it is a good change; otherwise we would not have presented it. We'll have to get back to what we do in the future. This is something that is very much in the budget and, if so, in cooperation with the parties with which we are presenting a budget.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-672	Mr President, I would like to I'll take my question again. I think there was a misunderstanding. It was about what was in Solveig Zanders's committee initiative and also in mine that work should be indicated and what kind of work. It was then not supported by Solveig Zander, but only the Left Party persisted. It was very gratifying to hear that the Center is going to drive this about indicating work. I also have an idea that the specified work in the investigation is set to zero. When it comes to dealing with budget friends, you usually run them over in other initiatives with various proposals that are not cost-seeking. This cost is estimated by the investigator at zero, so I'm still wondering why you don't step forward and push this issue harder.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-674	Mr President, I would like to We have made different types of adjustments, for example in health insurance rules and other things. Just because the social cost is zero doesn't mean it's not budgetary. It is therefore reasonable to deal with such matters in cooperation with the parties with whom the budget is being discussed. We in the four-party group have jointly come up with the proposal that we now have on the table. I think that's good. It will improve for many people, it will improve for many businesses and it will create a more secure situation both in the labour market and for the insured. These are good changes, and it is welcome that the Left Party also thinks so. It is regrettable that not all parties in the Swedish Parliament are behind them. I am pleased that in a few hours' time we will be able to press the button for yes on this issue and look forward to developing both health insurance systems and other ways in the future. We'll see how it's going to be in the future.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-679	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want the world's best care for the elderly. It deserves the elderly, so we welcome the historic billion-dollar investment in welfare, the annual extra billions in care for the elderly and the extra billions in care for the elderly in order to develop staff skills. But money does not solve everything, but it must also dare to change old ways of working and organising work in a modern and safe way where staff have good working conditions and the elderly are well off every day and every hour of the day. Mr President, I would like to I don't think any of us want several unknown people every day to come to our homes and help us with the most personal thing we can no longer handle on our own. Unfortunately, that is the case for the vast majority of people who are home helpers today. It's not worthy. It is not safe for the elderly or for the relatives who do not know who has been visiting there. We must ensure that there is more continuity. The staff should have a few to help and fewer to get to know, because that's when you see how the elderly person is doing. Then you can also see that the elderly get the right input. It creates security for the elderly, staff and relatives. This is where the municipalities still have a big job to do. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are in favour of freedom of choice in care for the elderly, freedom of choice to influence if you want to have the opportunity to walk and sleep morning with a late breakfast or to get help with showering the day you want. However, the debate on freedom of choice in care for the elderly has not been about the elderly, but about which company is going to provide care for the elderly and which of the profit-making companies makes the lowest bids that win the contract. To be honest, Mr President, I have not heard any elderly or family members asking which company runs the retirement home, but a lot of people wonder what quality care there is, whether there are good staff there and what golden edge the elderly can get on that particular accommodation. Mr President, I would like to Many elderly people have died too early in covid-19 because the infection has entered the homes. Both the residents and the staff have become ill. We know that there were deficiencies in care for the elderly. Many were employed hourly, there was a lack of competence and the right knowledge about the spread of infection and more. And there was a lack of proper protective equipment when the pandemic came. A picture stuck in my head is an elderly covid sufferer who was picked up by ambulance staff with full protective equipment, rightly so, while the assistant nurse who opened the door to the accommodation only had a place apron for protection, which was not enough for either the residents or the staff. More shortcomings that exist and affect are poor working conditions, minute schedules, shared tours, short-term employment and many unskilled substitutes, but also permanent employees who lack training to work in elderly care. Many supervisors have too many employees and responsibilities for too many, which becomes particularly vulnerable precisely in a pandemic that the Corona Commission has also pointed out. There is much to improve here. That is why efforts on care for the elderly are so important, and they are needed right there. Therefore, Mr President, I am very worried when I receive signals that local politicians say that you do not need this money, that you cannot use the money or that you will make tax cuts or sell out the municipal home service. My thoughts, then, are: Do you have such good care for the elderly that you cannot improve it? Do you have such a good staff policy that everyone is trained? Do you have the right basic staffing, few hourly staff and healthy staff who have a good working environment? Do the elderly have a good quality of life and good care? Are there digital aids? The list can be done much, much longer. If that's the case, I can see that you don't need the money for care for the elderly. But I have not heard of any municipality that has an elderly care where there is nothing to improve. Mr President, I would like to Quite a few years ago I was on a very nice visit to a retirement home that I do not forget. It smelled like freshly baked cake when we came in. Women had their hair rolled up. Some sat out on the terrace and enjoyed sitting outside. A staff scaled potatoes together with a resident, and the conversation was so happy. And interns played games with multiple residents. When I sat down to talk to some residents and staff, a cat came and lay down on my lap. The cat was a much appreciated resident there. Although it has been a few years now, I cannot forget that visit, because it was so nice for the elderly. It was so dignified. The staff were happy, and the relatives were so happy. Today it doesn't look like that. But we can improve care for the elderly, and the government's historically large investment in welfare and extra investment in care for the elderly is a good start. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 14.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-691	Mr President, I would like to We all get older by the minute, every day and every year that goes by. I myself got a few seconds older on the way up here. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes I hear about the older people taking the liberty of digressing and perhaps even commending the President for his job in defending democracy. Not least, the President did this through his conversation with the former Commander-in-Chief on how to defend democracy at Kulturweekend in Helsingborg. Many thanks for that! Now to senior issues. Staff continuity in care for the elderly needs to be improved. Continuity creates security for the patient and contributes to a good working environment for the staff. This is crucial for providing good quality care. The knowledge of the Swedish language by the staff of the elderly is important. It is a safety aspect so that, for example, regulations, documentation, care programmes and medical regulations can be followed. The fact that the staff can read, write, speak, understand and communicate with the Swedish language is absolutely fundamental in the care of the elderly. Mr President, I would like to This was very brief from the two announcements to the government for which we are working together with several members of the Committee on Social Affairs. Of course, we support these announcements and also our reservations according to the routine we have in this House. I support our reservation No 26, health promotion work, in paragraph 18, which is about strengthening prevention efforts to increase the number of healthy and active years for the elderly through a national health promotion strategy. The Social Affairs Committee deals with over 200 requests for exercise from general exercise time. It may be appropriate here to send a thank-you to the Social Affairs Committee's office with staff for the fine work they have done to support us, not least with regard to the undersigned who lacked routine at the start of work on this report. There are many requests for exercise, and this means that it is a parliament with dedicated members in terms of older people's rights, elderly people's rights, the organisation of care for the elderly and the staff of the elderly. This also applies to housing issues, supervision, fees, dementia care – now cognitive diseases – family support, health promotion and case prevention. Older people's issues span a wide range of areas. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have a genuine interest in people throughout their lives – from supporting all children and young people based on individual interests and the need to create knowledge so that they can acquire a meaningful working life and life to supporting older people with individual needs as they arise in order to maintain a meaningful and valuable life for as long as possible. All of our proposals in the area of the elderly can be read with benefit in the report and in the annexes containing our motions and reservations. It is clear here that we think it is important to support the positive development that we are living longer and are increasingly healthy. We think it is important to promote the health of older people and to reduce involuntary loneliness. Those with home care should receive contributions that take their starting point in making them as free and independent as possible. For those who live in special accommodations, the focus should be to strengthen the remaining abilities and opportunities the individual has. It's all about being able to fill your years with life and meaning. We shall all be able to look forward to good years even when we are becoming full of years. Mr President, I would like to The interest in older people is probably due to the fact that the pandemic has hit the elderly in particular. The Corona Commission's interim report of 15 December 2020 once again revealed a number of shortcomings in the care of the elderly. Once again, someone might be wondering. Well, the same problem picture described by the Corona Commission was revealed in the investigation initiated by the Alliance in early 2014 and which the government closed immediately after the elections in the same year. It was called the Elderly Investigation (S 2014:02). In just nine months, halfway, the investigation's more than 20 experts found a wide range of problems that needed to be addressed. Some of the preliminary conclusions from 2014 are that there are systemic failures in healthcare and care that affect the most ill elderly, that the interaction between regions and municipalities is lacking and that there is often no continuity and overview. In addition, skills in municipal care for the elderly and municipal health care must be improved and opportunities for further training improved. Doctors' skills are not used in a systematic way. Mr President, I would like to All of this has been known by the government since 2014, and had the investigation been able to carry out its mission, necessary legislative changes could have been made now. Health care and care for the most fragile elderly could have been better sent to work in normal conditions but also be well prepared to meet the extreme pressures of the coronapandemine. However, the government has not addressed known shortcomings. Mr President, I would like to In addition, the report on an elderly care law, which was decided on 22 December 2020 and is due to be reported by 30 June 2022, now pushes most of the future. An investigation is good, but much was already known through the investigation in 2014 and the Corona Commission's interim report. There is much that can be done here and now to improve care for the elderly. Of course, today's two announcements are only a small part of what both needs and can be done here and now. Last week, the Moderates, together with the Left Party and the Christian Democrats, presented joint proposals concerning the elderly. We want to see increased continuity of staff, fewer hours' employment in care for the elderly, increased medical skills in care for the elderly and increased opportunities for safe housing for the elderly. Mr President, I would like to We want to do this here and now, not then, but here and now.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-710	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats welcome the fact that more parties are saying that they want to invest money in elderly care. However, we receive signals that in many moderate-controlled municipalities, the money directed at elderly care does not end up there. In the midst of a pandemic that has hit the elderly hard and in the most serious economic crisis in modern Swedish history, they choose instead to make cuts and savings, drive privatisation and sell out municipal home services. Mr President, I would like to My questions to Mats Sander are therefore: How do the Moderates talk to their municipal politicians so that the investments in care for the elderly go to just the strengthening and improvement of care for the elderly? What will you do to ensure that spending on care for the elderly does not go towards tax cuts, privatisations or other projects in the municipalities where the Moderates are in charge? Mr President, I would like to Mats Sander said in his speech that they want to invest both in staffing and skills development and in improving the quality of care for the elderly, which we welcome. But it is important that we see that the money that the government has now invested also comes to care for the elderly.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-713	Mr President, I would like to This issue was raised here again this morning when we talked about monitoring and evaluating the government's resources. We think that doing so is a good thing. It is a matter for municipalities and regions what they do with their resources. I concluded my speech by talking about continuity of staff, fewer hours' employment, increased medical skills and increased opportunities for safe housing. What we are doing from this House is deciding to allocate resources, follow up and evaluate. It is up to the municipalities, in this case, to make the right decision on how to use the money. I had a brief discussion this morning about how detailed assignments can have a negative impact on the municipalities as it can take a lot of administrative power to remedy them. I would like to say this: getting older is not just a long line of care, needing home care and home care, thinking about housing in particular, or meeting new care contacts when you need to visit the health centre. There are many other qualities that I would like to highlight when it comes to issues relating to the elderly. All of a sudden you get time for a lot of other things: more time off, travel, interests and grandchildren but also to be able to continue to be a resource in society long up in the years and a force to be reckoned with. We see on the list of speakers here today that this can be done.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-716	Mr President, I would like to Mats Sander didn't answer my questions, so I'm going to repeat them: How do the Moderates talk to their municipal politicians so that investments in elderly care go just there and not to anything else? It is extremely important for the elderly to get these efforts, because they are really needed there. Mr President, I would like to I wonder how credible the efforts that the Moderates put forward here in the days really are. Last autumn, when the budget bill was to be prepared, no money was put there, but then it was tax cuts that were prioritised for the Moderates. It is always in opposition that the Moderates want to invest more money in welfare and care for the elderly, so the credibility may not be so great. We Social Democrats and our government have invested historical money in welfare and care for the elderly. They come to care for the elderly every year. The elderly care lift is extremely important, so that we get more competent employees. We will also ensure that nurses are given a protected professional title, and eventually there will also be an older care team. Mr President, I would like to I look forward to Mats Sander giving me answers about what he will do about the municipalities.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-720	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates assume that the municipalities will do what they should do with the mandates they have to manage. We note that a government may be more or less active or passive. It can act or react. It can actively and controlledly seek new knowledge in order to improve conditions for people or it can wait and see. I see, Mr President, that the current government is, and the previous government was, passive and waiting and seeing what is going to happen and only acting accordingly. I think we have seen this throughout 2020. I would like to come back to the directive for the 2014 study, which was pragmatic, long-term and aimed at broad parliamentary participation after the 2015 final report. If the investigation had been allowed to continue, Mr President, knowledge of the situation in the care of the elderly could be used as a basis for improving care for the elderly. Quite probably, there had been well-thought-out proposals on Parliament's table by autumn 2016, proposals that had probably been decided for the Christmas break 2016. It would probably have made a decisive difference as to how prepared or unprepared elderly care was when the pandemic struck. I believe that both the present and the previous governments have a great responsibility for this. Without our constructive proposals throughout 2020, we would probably not have seen an extra effort in the budget for elderly care in 2021, the mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare to strengthen elderly care or the investigation into an elderly care bill, which was decided seven days after the Corona Commission interim report and which will be reported in the final report just before the 2022 elections. It is about acting or reacting and being active or passive.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-725	Mr President, I would like to I think we all agree that older people deserve the best care that can ever be offered. We must not forget that someone has worked hard and hard to build up our Swedish safety net, our healthcare and our care. The least we can do to honour this is to make sure that these things also work in the best possible way. Mr President, I would like to It is impossible to talk about elderly care issues without touching or getting into how the coronapandemy has exposed obvious flaws in today's care for the elderly. These deficiencies have existed for a long time, and it is clear that there is a great need for changes in both the short and long term, for both users and staff. The fact that the ever-deprived elderly care would be severely affected in a pandemic should not have surprised anyone at all. Of course, in addition to a substantial increase in skills, more money is needed to overcome some of the problems. It is important to point out that this is largely about a change of attitude in which we see elderly care as a priority area, where we give the profession a much higher status, where staff with the right skills are employed and where decisions are made based on real needs. It must be made clear that the health and care profession is a priority and that the professional title is something that one can proudly bear. It is basically like taking out insurance, an insurance that you know with certainty that you can take advantage of and that works the day you need it. It is a way of investing in the future, so to speak. The state, the principals and the private operators must cooperate and take long-term action to address the supply of skills. We need to improve care for the elderly, and that is why we believe that there should be place-linked doctors, that is, doctors who are responsible for and contact with every elderly person in the particular housing. It is a guarantee of ensuring medical competence in the care of the elderly, but also of ensuring responsibility for medical competence. Today, doctors, even over the phone, can put in palliative care without even seeing the individual. This is not the way to carry out care, so we believe that it would be appropriate to have a place-linked doctor. Mr President, I would like to The outbreak of covid-19 has, as I began by saying, highlighted weaknesses in Swedish elderly care. Older care needs to be strengthened in the long term with a clearer statutory mandate and content. Now, at last, the government has commissioned a special investigator to propose an older care bill, which we Swedish democrats have been running for a long time. In 2016 we exercised about an elderly care team. The committee then replied that it was not necessary for Parliament to take any initiatives in connection with the motion. In the rear-view mirror it could be said that it was necessary even then. Mr President, I would like to Swedish elderly care is perfect for the spread of infection because all retirement homes of all kinds are characterized by a high staff turnover and a large number of substitutes. This is one of the reasons why we need to create better continuity of staff, but continuity also creates security for the care provider and contributes to a much better working environment. Another step in reducing anxiety and uncertainty is to set requirements for knowledge of the Swedish language for staff and employees. But not least, it is a safety aspect. It is a matter of ensuring that documentation, regulations, care programmes and medical regulations can be followed in a safe manner. Language skills and the ability to communicate both orally and in writing are a prerequisite for staff to be able to perform their work in the care of the elderly safely and safely. Therefore, we believe that the government must review the knowledge requirements in the Swedish language that should be applied to the staff of elderly care. It is also an issue that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time. Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd talk a little bit about malnutrition, too. Malnutrition is something that affects an unnecessary number of older people. In addition to of course causing personal suffering, it also contributes to increased care weight with more frequent health visits, higher risk of complications and unfortunately also higher mortality. We therefore believe that the government should give the appropriate authority the task of developing the basis for a zero vision of malnutrition in the elderly. We also believe that the government should take action regarding the time between the meals of the elderly, for example, that night fast should not exceed 11 hours. On the subject of zero vision, we also believe that the government should come up with a proposal for a zero vision on deaths caused by falls. Our hope of having a pronounced zero vision is of course to focus on the issue so that municipalities and regions are increasingly able to work to prevent falls. Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of important issues to talk about that I regret not have time for here now. I just want to say that the most important measure that we can actually take is that we actually listen to the needs of the country and base our decisions on it, so that we do not break open doors and make decisions that have no direct impact. Care for the elderly can only be good if we actually listen to patients and staff instead of finding quick solutions to a hugely complex problem. Of course, I support all our reservations, but today I choose to accept only reservation 31.
i-Skzn6oYsgp3HsFTxeggxt2	Madam President, I would like So the members of the European Council met via a video meeting on Thursday and Friday last week. The discussion on Thursday dealt with covid-19, in particular the availability of the vaccines that the EU has procured jointly, and the broader health issues were also addressed. On Friday, security and defence issues and the southern neighbourhood were discussed. Madam President, I would like It is now almost a year since the first video meeting of EU leaders on the pandemic. If we look in the rear-view mirror, we can see that it is clear that, although there have been a lot of problems, we would have been much less equipped without all the joint initiatives that have been taken in the European Union. Having said that, it is problematic that we do not get the vaccine doses we have planned for when deliveries are delayed or even cancelled. At the meeting, frustration was expressed from several quarters, including Sweden, over missing deliveries. At the same time, we should remember that, thanks to this cooperation, we have received vaccines faster than we have ever dared to hope for. The Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen, presented the discussions with various vaccine companies. The Commission is pressing in these talks to secure deliveries and turn up production. There was also widespread concern about new mutations, and many believe that sequencing work needs to be expanded in order to identify and combat the new virus variants. Madam President, I would like Many welcomed the Commission's intention to set up an EU agency for preparedness and response to health emergencies, what is called Hera, as well as the proposal for a so-called Hera incubator presented last week. Several also expressed the wish to speed up EU approval processes. I and many others highlighted the importance of vaccine availability in all countries, including outside the EU, and the fact that we are developing a common system for providing support to countries outside the EU. This is a very important issue because no part of the world can be safe for the pandemic, not least for future mutations, before everyone is safe. There is a consensus here, but at the same time it was clear that the implementation of the national vaccination programmes must be ensured. A vaccine certificate was also discussed, and we agreed on the need for a vaccination certificate for medical use. However, there are still differences of opinion as to whether they should confer specific rights. This work continues, with the aim of developing a digital system that can be used across borders as soon as possible. Finally, many referred to restrictions in the internal market. There is a balance between disease control measures and free movement, and basically it is the Member States that decide on disease control measures. At the same time, however, there is a consensus on how important it is to maintain the transport of goods, and the system of so-called green files was given special attention. Madam President, I would like Friday's discussion on security and defence was launched by the NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, who was invited to the meeting. He stressed the importance of close cooperation between the EU and NATO. In the ensuing discussion, many stressed that the EU's own strength needs to be improved in order to become a relevant partner and that the new opportunities for cooperation with the US created by the new administration in Washington should be exploited. The EU has an important role to play for peace and common security, and I underlined the EU's unique opportunity to combine civil and military tools. There must be a broad approach in which we work preventively and confidence-building in order to reduce tensions. The objective must be common security in a global context. I and some others also pointed to the importance of working closely with the UK on security issues, and many also touched on the need for a robust and technologically strong industrial base, as well as for research and development to meet cyber and hybrid threats. Madam President, I would like There was also a discussion on the concept of strategic autonomy, in which I and a number of others argued for the importance of the EU working for an open economy and that free trade is basically what gives strength. However, we must, of course, safeguard autonomy, and this means, among other things, that we cooperate with strategic partners where possible. Finally, a number of Member States raised partnerships with the countries of the Southern Neighbourhood, and the conclusions of the December European Council were confirmed. That concludes the report on last week's meeting, Madam President.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-752	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. During the consultation before the European Council, I underlined the fact that NATO is the real security guarantor for Europe and that a strong transatlantic link in this context is crucial. It is therefore crucial that, in developing its security and defence policy, the EU does not get lost in its ambitions for so-called strategic autonomy and, in practice, becomes a competitor of the EU's closest partners. Sweden must be a clear voice in this discussion, not least now that the UK has left the EU, as the Prime Minister said. Of course, Europe should take greater responsibility for its security, but the EU and NATO should complement each other, not compete with each other. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore how the government intends to work to ensure that Sweden has an impact on its view of strategic autonomy by, for example, having a dialogue and interacting with strategic partners within the EU.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-755	Madam President, I would like As Mrs Roswall says, it is important to remember that the EU and NATO should complement each other. I feel that there is a strong consensus on it. There is no doubt about it. On the other hand, it is sometimes the case that some countries are pushing for strategic autonomy in a way that – by extension, I would say – could lead to the EU becoming too isolated. That's the risk we're pointing at. Let's say it wouldn't be good, for a number of reasons. One reason is that the open economy and free trade are the basis for our competitiveness. That is what has built our welfare, and that is why it would not be good if, in another future scenario, we were to remove the important foundation. It is still the one who serves us well, and that is why we should have an open economy. Then it's a matter of pure security; if we look a little ahead, we can see that it's obviously not good if we get some big players around the world – the US, the EU, China, India, Russia and some others – each building their own closed world. In that case, conflicts have also been built up for the future. That is why we believe it is important that we stand up for strategic and smart autonomy. Of course, we cannot be naive; we must understand that we must ensure that we have access to certain products in one way or another. However, this does not mean that we should produce everything ourselves. There are a number of countries that think as we do in this case. It is as usual – we gather those countries, cooperate with them and express the same thing. I would say that there is a broad grouping which shares our view. We express it and run it.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-759	Madam President, I would like My question was specifically about security and defence policy, because that is what you discussed day two. I would have liked the Prime Minister to have answered in the affirmative to my question that the EU and NATO should not compete with each other but complement each other. I have another question. It concerns vaccination sessions, which the Moderates have highlighted for quite a long time. The government has acted in no other way than passively and slowly. When vaccinations have an impact and we can ease the restrictions, a proper restart is important. The Prime Minister now referred to vaccination passports, which have been discussed, but he raised the disagreement. Rather, the President of the Commission has mentioned the possibility that we will already have a proposal for a passport within a month. I would like the Prime Minister to look at the possibility of solving problems rather than just seeing the problems. I am also concerned that Sweden will end up outside, just as in the case of the disease detection app, where we are one of the few countries outside. Is it the same with the vaccination pass?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-763	Madam President, I would like First of all, I just said that we have a common understanding that the EU and NATO are complementary. I hope there will be no misunderstanding about this. We are, of course, like all other countries, involved in the discussion at European level on the certificate. We are, of course, also working nationally on this, because we are going to do it. It is then necessary to agree on what should be included in this certificate. This discussion is going on, and it has come quite a long way. Information on whether the person concerned has been ill or not and whether the person has received vaccines or has antibodies shall be included in the certificate. In the next question, on how far we should go in terms of rights if you have such a certificate, however, there is no real consensus. Here, among other things, there is a concern about personal integrity and perhaps also about discrimination, so my assessment is that this will take a little longer. But when it comes to a medical certificate, or with medical information, it will probably go pretty fast.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-766	Madam President, I would like Millions of people in Europe, from heads of government to health professionals and people belonging to risk groups, are currently expressing justified anger and frustration at how the Union has dealt with the vaccine issue. The reason why vaccination is so much slower than planned is that the EU has managed the procurement process much worse than expected. The United Kingdom is forecast to have vaccinated almost all of its population by the end of the summer. This compares with Sweden, which will have vaccinated just under a third. Sébastien De Rey, a contract specialist at the University of Leuven, claims that the UK Government's purchase agreement with Astra Zeneca, which is the same company from which the Union has purchased, is both much clearer in terms of the right to supervise performance and contains stricter consequences in the case of delayed delivery compared to EU contracts with the same company. This has given the British a great advantage. A source of the Politico newspaper says that the EU's agreement lacks commercial common sense. In addition, the UK has managed to release more doses more quickly by simply paying a little more while the EU has initially tried to reduce the price. As early as May, the United Kingdom also reached an agreement with Astra Zeneca to establish a specific supply chain for that country, something that the EU did not do until much later. The German Minister of Finance must also have called the EU's handling of this whole issue a total bleep show. Until recently, we supported the plan to leave all responsibility for this to the European Union. I am now prepared to admit that we have been naive. Unfortunately, the European Union has simply not been able to do this; I think that is obvious. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to admit the same thing.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-772	Madam President, I would like It is clear that everyone wants vaccines as quickly as it ever goes, and that is what the work is all the time on. I think it is important to note that the UK started its vaccination before the vaccine was approved. I think we should develop vaccines as quickly as possible, but it must also be safe. Think for a moment that a vaccine had started to be used which later proved to have quite serious side effects – I would like to hear what Ludvig Aspling had accused the EU of. By then, we would naturally have had a completely different discussion. It will be quick, but it should also be safe. I think this is extremely important. I still maintain that if we had not been involved in coordination at European level, we would not have been close to a start of vaccination right now. I think that the main track is to continue to be part of this. Then our vaccine coordinator has a mission to also look outside this and see what else there is. However, there are no layers on the shelf waiting, but it is occupied. The whole world is asking for this. In addition, a large part of the world has not received any vaccine at all. That part also needs vaccines, because otherwise we're not safe. What Mrs von der Leyen has said – I talked to her about this only yesterday – is, among other things, that we were perhaps too optimistic about this. It is extremely complex to produce vaccines; it is not like making soft drinks, it is something else. I mean, we've chosen a wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee I think is right. We have several vaccines. It's going a lot faster than if we do it ourselves. Now it is important to get up production and delivery.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-778	Madam President, I would like If we are to be correct here, we should say that it is not the case that Britain began to use the vaccine before there was reasonable reason to assume that it was safe, even if it was not formally approved at the time. It is reported that Denmark, Austria, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic have now grown tired of the EU and started looking for vaccines elsewhere. For example, there has been talk of cooperation with Israel, which has succeeded very well in this. According to a round call from TV4 from yesterday, there is also a majority in Parliament to do the same, i.e. start looking outside the EU. Of course, we support this; for us it is far more important to save lives than to save the face of Ursula von der Leyen. I would like to know if the Prime Minister shares that view. Is he also open for Sweden to start looking for vaccines elsewhere than through the joint procurement?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-781	Madam President, I would like I think the coordinator answered that yesterday. This is part of his mission, so if it is outside, he will of course do it. However, we do not want a system in which we will start to work with the agreements that already exist in the European Union so that we breach any agreement there. It wouldn't be good. It would be devastating. Israel does not have its own vaccine production, but they buy vaccines. One can lift the hat for their agreements and because they have got started quickly. However, it is not with those to talk about production, but with the companies that produce it. There are a further number of vaccines in the pipeline. That is why I believe that the main track must be that we maintain this cooperation and use the volume of the European Union to get the best deal possible. But Sweden is also working on what is outside this. Is there anything we can add so that we can gain access to vaccines? That's the whole point of departure. But it should also be safe.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-784	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. These are important and interesting issues that have been addressed. I believe that the views of the Centre Party on both the relationship between the EU and NATO and strategic autonomy are clear. My question, however, does not concern this, but concerns the roll-out of the vaccine globally. After all, we have a challenge: if too few are vaccinated so far in Europe, the situation in the poorer countries of the world is much more difficult. Last autumn, proposals were made to adjust or suspend intellectual property rights in order to produce vaccines outside Europe. The EU and Sweden have, probably quite rightly, judged that this is not possible. However, we see from the Center Party that the EU needs to take a faciliterating role between European vaccine manufacturers and other pharmaceutical companies outside the Union in order to scale up production. As the Prime Minister himself said, we are not finished until everyone is vaccinated, whether you live in the Union or anywhere else in the world. I wonder if this is something that was discussed during the meeting. If not, I would like to hear how the Prime Minister views this. Will we be able to take steps in this direction to strengthen vaccination outside Europe as well?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-789	Madam President, I would like We devoted part of the meeting to this very thing. Sweden and others in particular are pushing that it is important for both health and geopolitical reasons that the EU is involved and visible where we can contribute and make an effort. As Magnus Ek himself said: No one is safe until everyone is safe. So we discussed this. The EU as such, together with the Member States, contributes almost EUR 1 000 billion to Covax. There are the financial resources but not yet the means of delivery. The vaccine must actually be in place. Therefore, there is now a discussion with the producing companies about how we get production up – whether it is possible to do more in the production chains with faster substances, more production facilities and whatever it may be, and of course also if there are other ways. It should be remembered that the EU is one of few areas where vaccines are actually exported to other countries. It is not done from Britain, for example. There's a stop there. The EU is therefore contributing here. Or it is therefore companies that export from the EU. However, in order to complicate this, when deliveries have turned out to be less than promised, the view will probably be a little tighter, if I put it that way. However, the EU is thus providing Covax with medicines and is working to get production up so that there are actually vaccines to be sent out to these countries too.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-793	Madam President, I would like I am aware and very proud of what we are contributing from the European Union but also from the Swedish side. Together with the government, we have also reinforced the contribution to Covax and WHO precisely to this end. However, like the Prime Minister, we also have the problem that there must be vaccines to distribute. It is not just about the means, but the bottleneck is just as much in production. That is precisely why I am asking about this and we in the Center Party want to press for it. The problem here is to get licensing and production agreements with companies that have the capacity but are not on the vaccines themselves. I am fully aware that it is not straightforward. If we are to have a vaccine production, it is about companies also being able to profit from it and know that they are taking home the money they invest in research, development and their own production. Therefore, I may still have to press for an extra time: does the Prime Minister consider that there is any opening for this? What else can be done on your part to facilitate this type of licensing and production agreement?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-796	Madam President, I would like The problem lies in what Magnus Ek describes. It is an intellectual property issue, quite simply. There's the assessment that if we were to use the de facto regulatory framework in the short term – there is a possibility for countries to use a certain regulatory framework in emergency situations in order not to stick to the regulatory framework that exists in everyday life, so to speak – it would harm companies' willingness to continue developing. So if there's any way we're going, it's with some kind of license or whatever it might be. Now, however, it is not just to look up a production of vaccines. Vaccine production is extremely complex. This discussion must therefore continue with the producing companies in order to obtain the right production and safe production. But that is not impossible at all, and the discussion is ongoing with the companies.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-798	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I would like to begin by saying that the Left Party is very sorry that the Heads of State or Government have now taken further steps towards the militarisation, rapprochement with NATO and armament. However, we have noted in the past that we have different views here, and I will therefore focus my question on the global need for vaccines. The statement from the meeting talks about Covax and solidarity with third countries, but very little is being done to ensure that other countries have access to the vaccine despite the fact that there are many ways to go. Such a way would be to abolish the whole or part of the patent on vaccines in order for third countries to produce vaccines themselves. Given that research into the vaccine is funded from public funds, that is not unreasonable. Estimates show that the world's population spent about $90 billion on vaccine research, yet the profits and patents of pharmaceutical companies are to be defended by the world's rich countries. Other ways to go are to pressure vaccine manufacturers to lower prices or allow license production free of charge. However, no such paths are highlighted in the statement. For me and the Left, it goes without saying that Europe must show solidarity with the rest of the world, but even for those who do not believe in solidarity, there are financial incentives for the whole world to have access to vaccines quickly. Last week, the Church of Sweden signed a petition on various ways to secure a global vaccination. Doctors Without Borders say patents don't belong in a pandemic. The WHO director has called the situation a catastrophic moral failure. Vaccin cooperation Covax is at risk of failure and can leave developing countries without vaccines to 2024, warns experts and Covax themselves. However, the Swedish Government and the EU continue to refer to Covax.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-805	Madam President, I would like Sweden and I personally were probably among the first to raise the question last year: now that we are producing vaccines, we must ensure that it comes out to the whole world. We have a number of countries with us that are pushing this particular issue. As I said, Covax has enormous financial resources that could play a huge role. The problem is that we have a bottleneck in production. It is just to look again at Israel or Britain, which has just been discussed. They have made rapid agreements and vaccinate their people. There's nothing strange about it, but that's what it looks like. There are also no layers of vaccine, but it is sent out at the rate at which it is produced. So production has to go up. As I said earlier about patents, the assessment is that with approval in international regulations one can certainly go beyond that, bypass, but that in the long run it will also mean that companies' willingness and drive to continue to develop and produce decreases when one does not get back their investment. That would be unfortunate. On the other hand, it is good that we are having a discussion with producing companies, as I said earlier, about what it is possible to do to get production up. What can be done at the stage of production, in the various sub-productions, in the production facilities, at the rate of development? All this must be done. Here I believe more in cooperation between the producing companies and the political leaders in countries and not least in the European Union.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-809	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. It is, of course, a good thing that Sweden was early in the process of pressing for a joint distribution of the vaccine. It is also good that we have put a lot of money into Covax. But as the Prime Minister himself says, the bottleneck is the production of vaccines. There are several suggestions on how to get vaccines faster, for example by temporarily pushing intellectual property rights or by pushing pharmaceutical companies to lower prices. The Prime Minister refers to the fact that the companies have spent a lot of money on research. Then I would like to press once again for 90 billion dollars for research to come from public funds from different countries. However, there have been no demands on pharmaceutical companies to reduce their prices. Everything suggests that pharmaceutical companies have already made the profits they need to secure their own profits. That is why there is every reason to press for everyone to be able to produce.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-812	Madam President, I would like I can largely share Ilona Waldaus's view. Companies must also contribute here; there is no doubt about it. Now Astra Zeneca has its problems with production, but they produce at cost price. They do not want to profit from this. I think this is a good example when it comes to thinking, but then production has not gone so well. My point is, you have to get them with you. It is not possible to just say: now we are making more vaccines. Someone should do it too, and then it takes quite a lot of experience and knowledge, because it's complicated. I believe that the fastest way forward is a political pressure and support where there is dialogue between politics, companies and other actors and that a common strategy is being developed on how to bring production up. I think it's the fastest way.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-815	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. There were several major and important issues that were discussed at the European Council last week. I intended to focus on security and defence policy and also on strategic autonomy. The conclusions of the meeting state that the Commission will present a technology roadmap by October to reduce Europe's dependence on critical technologies and key value chains. We really need to find a sensible balance so that this is not used to change trade rules in general. For us in Sweden, trade is extremely important, and many jobs depend on us trading with other parts of the world. I raised this in the European Council last week, and I know that we agree on the basic approach to trade. However, the Prime Minister also stated at the meeting that we will have to deal with some complex issues. I was going to ask how the discussions went at the meeting on Friday, but we have received some answers here after previous questions. Instead, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he feels confident, following the discussions that took place last week, that the plan that the Commission will present in October will deal wisely with these complex issues that do not put Swedish trade at a disadvantage.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-820	Madam President, I would like Let me put it this way: I understand that the Commission has a view similar to that of us in terms of balance. Member States have different views on how strong the balance should be, but it is clear in what was previously called conclusions but now states that this partnership is also important. NATO is an important player. The EU and NATO will complement each other. Then there are other important actors with whom we will cooperate. That is a broad approach. As far as technology development is concerned, it is more about not being naive, as I said earlier, but realizing that there are probably bottlenecks that we need to plug. Otherwise, we can easily be strangled. For example, in the United States, the semiconductor discussion is very topical. They see that they depend on a single country's deliveries to access semiconductors and have to do something more. We have to think the same way, because otherwise we can stand in a position where we are without, and we should not get into that. Do I feel safe? Yes, in the sense that I feel that the Commission is thinking about how to find this balance. I also had a conversation yesterday with Mrs von der Leyen about this. Then I know that there are Member States that are pushing more for this autonomy, which I believe risks, at least in the long run, to lead to a closed society. It's dangerous for a number of reasons. We must remain in this debate, and if we are united, I think we should be helped in every direction. Many countries think as we do, and many have very good contributions on this issue, I would say.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-823	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that many countries think like us and that Sweden is pushing on. I would really urge the Prime Minister to push this forward, because these are extremely important issues for us. As the Prime Minister says, we agree in our view of the enormous importance of trade for Sweden. I thought I'd take this opportunity to ask you one more question. I raised the issue of Taiwan and the inclusion of Taiwan in the WHO last week at the European Council. The Prime Minister also mentioned last week that the government is in favour of the inclusion of Taiwan in the WHO and that Sweden is working for this. This would be good for several reasons, both for Taiwan and for us, and for us to be able to share information. My question is how the EU is pushing for Taiwan to be included in the work. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the work that the EU is doing, or is the government's view that the EU should do more?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-827	Madam President, I would like The specific question was not raised at this meeting. I am too ill-informed about exactly what is being done within the framework of the European Union, but I stand by what I said last week about the Swedish Government's view that Taiwan should be able to join the WHO. I'm afraid I can't say much more. We did not discuss Taiwan specifically at the meeting.
i-ER1TpiDMRQd3sFavfNgRh3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! Many relevant questions, not least about vaccination, have been asked, so I am not going to repeat those questions. However, I note and regret that the progress has been made and that there have been bottlenecks in production and non-delivery which have now led to a great deal of concern among the populations of different EU countries. As far as Israel is concerned, I am well aware that they have other advantages in terms of buying in vaccines. But one can think of their hugely successful work in vaccinating virtually the whole of their population. Does the Prime Minister see any advantages in watching and following up on how they have worked in Israel? Once we get started with the vaccination that we wish would have got a better start, is there anything in the Israelis to be inspired by? The Prime Minister also mentioned this by discussing the issue of setting up a health authority within the EU, but the Prime Minister did not go much into what it should do. I think it is incredibly important that the side effects that the vaccine may have are also monitored and that there is clear work on how to exchange information and experience with each other in order to reduce the impact that this may have. The Prime Minister also mentioned the issue of vaccination passports. I understood that it was a little unclear and that one did not agree on what should be included. My question to the Prime Minister is: How does the Swedish Government view whether such a certificate should be introduced?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-832	Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that deliveries have not come any further at the pace on which we had signed agreements. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you once again that if we had not had this cooperation, we would not have started vaccination on 27 December. I am absolutely convinced of that. So we need to see that part too. Now the task is to get the rate up as much as possible so that we get the vaccine as quickly as possible here to Sweden and other countries. As far as Israel is concerned, it is a bit of a special condition, not least in terms of how much they provide data to the producing company. In that case, for future experience, you need to look at what you can do. Are there differences in the ability to disclose medical data to the company? That is what Israel had to give to get access to this so quickly. It's complex, and I'm afraid to say it's exactly the right way. I don't know exactly if we have those possibilities. As far as the health authority is concerned – I have stressed it very clearly, and I believe that it is also in the statements that exist – it must be in accordance with the Treaty. Health issues are essentially Member States' issues, so that is not something that should be taken over. However, there are, we believe, very good merits to do with cooperation. Can we get faster with alerting each other? Perhaps we need to build up emergency stocks, as we do now. One should be located in Kristinehamn, for example. What else can we coordinate between countries? That's what we think it is. As far as vaccination passes are concerned, the question is, as I said, what its content should be. What's in it? What will it consist of? There is a great deal of agreement: we need to think more. Should it also give rights and, if so, what?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-838	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Before the meeting last week, I asked if the meeting would also deal with the situation in Russia and the situation of the opposition there. The Prime Minister said that this is an issue that will be raised when we meet physically, in March if I am not mistaken. Given how the situation has developed in the country, I am curious to hear whether the issue of Russia has been addressed. In fact, that space can be given if it is considered that the issue is important enough. I therefore wonder whether the issue of the developments we are now seeing in Russia, not least with the Navalny case, was nevertheless raised in some way during the meeting.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-842	Madam President, I would like We chose for this meeting not to do so, given the form. It is not successful to sit and discuss Russia at a video meeting, for reasons of safety. That does not mean that nothing is done. After all, the foreign ministers have discussed it, and it will be quite fast with further restrictions. Things are done and marked and talked. But the strategic discussion for the future – because this does not end now – we want to be handled when you meet physically in a much safer way.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-844	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the presentation and the answers so far! In the statement from the meeting under the covid-19 point it says this – I have translated into Swedish: Currently, non-essential journeys must be limited. We welcome the adoption of the two Council recommendations on intra-EU and intra-EU travel, according to which restrictions can be imposed in accordance with the principle of proportionality and non-discrimination and taking into account cross-border societal situations.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-847	It is really good that the digital vaccine passports come into place. Essentially, they will be a great support for EU citizens to be able to travel once again within the EU. However, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has said in interviews that it is up to the Member States to lay down their own rules on how to use the digital vaccine passports. My question to the Prime Minister is, therefore, whether there may be a risk that the Member States will start to make their own interpretations which, by extension, are actually contrary to the principles of free movement within the EU, for example, for those who are not priorities but will have to wait for the vaccine for a longer period of time depending on how quickly the vaccine is being rolled out. We have seen a lot of strange situations during the ongoing pandemic. People have been discriminated against in their respective countries when it comes to entry etc. – not least here in the Nordic countries, where the Prime Minister was personally involved in solving a border commuter situation between Sweden and Norway. This may ultimately land in that some countries will require both vaccine passports and negative entry certificates, while others will not. I'm glad we're getting vaccine passports, but have you or have you had this kind of discussion?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-852	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have and have had it. I also had a meeting with Ursula von der Leyen just yesterday about that. As I said, the technical description, what this is and what it should contain, will be agreed fairly quickly. Ultimately, it is somewhere about mobility, because that is why many people are in favour of us having a passport like this. On the other hand, the mandate to decide on how to use it lies with the Member States. If you have a passport, you can get between countries. That is the basic requirement. We should not exclude other things, and that is why this needs to be discussed. What are the rights to be given, and what are the risks of discrimination? That's why these two steps are useful to take. We shall first agree on what it contains, but we must also discuss what risks there are in terms of integrity, discrimination and other things. Is this causing other mobility problems? I think this needs to be better coordinated. I think that discussion needs to be coordinated. The right of decision itself and what to demand for people who enter the country, if it is to be this, remains to be seen. But there is clearly a risk that things will be different. I can see that, and that is why I think the discussion must continue.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-856	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for a good answer! I am also reflecting on the future and the joint health authority, which will nevertheless be based on national competence. A contribution could be to look at how the EU can coordinate in the future with regard to this type of non-discriminatory action. There are lockdowns going on and fines are being imposed. You pay a lot of money if you live in a particular country for doing certain things that go against restrictions and recommendations. In the run-up to the forthcoming European Councils, consideration can also be given to this phenomenon so that freedom of movement is not discriminated against in the future – even in future pandemic situations. This as a contribution to take with you in the future when you discuss these issues.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-859	Madam President, I would like I can only sign it. That discussion is partly already under way, but it must continue. My assessment is that it will be very complex, and so, as I said, I would like to see it in two phases. But it's up and running and needs to continue, so I'd be happy to take it with me.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-860	Madam President, I would like Every human life is valuable, and people have the same value wherever in the world they live. Covid-19 is a global pandemic. It has struck differently in different countries, and people are affected differently when they get seriously ill depending on whether they live in a country that has a well-developed health system or not. Scientists around the world have collaborated to develop vaccines at a record speed that prevent severe disease and death in covid-19. We in the European Union have come together to buy these vaccines together and to distribute them in solidarity so that the oldest and most fragile people throughout the Union can be vaccinated first. We in the richer countries must also ensure solidarity with those people who live in countries that have not had the same opportunity to conclude these vaccine agreements quickly. We in the Green Party believe that Sweden needs to work towards a joint distribution of covid-19 vaccine. I am delighted that Sweden's new Minister for International Development Per Olsson Fridh has given priority to the issue of the distribution of vaccines to poor countries as well, and I think it is very important that Sweden is on for the EU to do what is necessary for Covax to deliver vaccines. What does the Prime Minister think about the possibilities to mobilise sufficient EU involvement in the Act accelerator and in Covax?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-867	Madam President, I would like I think there is a genuine interest in ensuring this. More and more people see the meaning, for many reasons. Health reasons, as I said earlier, but also geopolitical reasons and other reasons speak in favour of this. Had the EU Member States received deliveries according to the plans that existed, it is clear that there had already been more room for manoeuvre. At the same time, there is enormous pressure in every Member State, even here in Sweden, to ensure that the vaccines they have been given actually go out to the population. I would say that is the basic approach now – to do so as quickly as possible. But that is why it is important to keep up the pressure on production. After all, there is not only the possibility of pushing up the existing vaccines, but there are also a whole series of candidates standing and waiting. There are actually several who are under clinical trial right now. That is what we must ensure – to get production up so that we bring it to the rest of the world as quickly as possible. As I said, I myself took an initiative with a number of other leaders last year, at an early stage, to point out that we must look at this too. We fool ourselves if we think we've done everything as long as we've vaccinated ourselves. In addition, we may not only think dose 1 and dose 2, but we may think dose 3, 4, 5, 6 and perhaps 10. I don't know how many doses we have to take gradually. That is reason enough to push up production so that there is access for the whole world. As soon as possible, this will come out. Covax is financially a good resource, but it does not yet have sufficient substantial resources in terms of the amount of vaccine. That is why this is a priority.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-872	Madam President, I would like Another issue raised at the European Council was the call for the Commission to present a report on the lessons learned from the pandemic. It is important that we learn what we did well and what we did worse so that we know how to tackle a pandemic in the future. However, we must also act to minimise the risk of future pandemics of zoonoses where infection is transmitted from animals to humans. We need to avoid animal husbandry that is painful and leads to sick animals. The over-use of antibiotics with antibiotic resistance as a result is also a key challenge. We in the Environmental Party think that this perspective is very important to get involved in the evaluation work. What perspectives will the Prime Minister address in the evaluation of the pandemic in the EU?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-874	Madam President, I would like I think I have already mentioned some things about how to alert each other. We need better such systems so that we early become aware of what might happen. Contingency is another such thing. We must ensure that we do not have weaknesses in different production chains. We must not be so dependent or even lacking certain medicines or medical equipment. I share Annika Hirvonen's view that we really need to be careful. What this animal and human thing can mean and what it can mean is something we should have learned. It is both a European issue and, not least, a world issue. After all, the virus has shown that it knows no national borders or regional borders. This is an extremely important issue to address. The same applies to the overuse that Annika Hirvonen pointed out. All of this should be included.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-882	Madam President, I would like It can be seen that interest in older people is great and strong. No less than 31 reservations and 72 motions are contained in the report that we are now debating. The fact that issues relating to elderly and elderly care have gained more focus and more space in the debate is something that I see as very positive. If we are to move forward on these issues, I think we need just more focus and increased interest from all parties. We need to create a broad majority and decide on a direction together that can hold over the terms of office, no matter what government we have. The challenges we face are not those that can be solved by an individual decision or by an individual change in the law. The necessary reinforcements and efforts will require time, perseverance, determination and courage to think new. Madam President, I would like Sweden has an elderly care that many other countries are actually jealous of. I think it is important to remind us that we basically have an elderly care that is very good and that we should be proud of. However, what we have seen during the pandemic and, as the Corona Commission pointed out in its first interim report, is that in some areas we have a much too low minimum level. It is a level that is not acceptable and that we need to fix. We must improve quality from scratch and ensure the safety of our elderly and their relatives. At the beginning of the week, I was asked: What is the most important measure to improve quality? I thought for a moment, but quite quickly I stated that there is no universal answer. The single most important measure does not exist, but the solutions consist of a package of measures and are just as complex as the health care itself and the care for our elderly are. I really admire all the staff who do an amazing job for our elderly on a daily basis. But the conditions for them to continue to do their work need to be improved. Similarly, the conditions for better working environment, better schedules and opportunities for further training and career development must be strengthened – all to improve the situation here and now, but also to increase attractiveness and encourage more people to want to train and work in the care of the elderly. Therefore, the initiative that we have made together with the Government, the Elderly Care Lift, is very important. The elderly care lift means that nurses, carers and managers in the care of the elderly are given the opportunity to train on paid working hours. In my speech, I will now try to point out a few things that I see as important pieces in order for us to have a seamless and uniform care for the elderly throughout the country based on the needs of the elderly rather than what suits the system or what is best for the organisation. Madam President, I would like The first part deals with medical skills in care for the elderly. The Corona Commission's interim report made this very clear: medical skills in care for the elderly must be increased and improved. We need to provide room for staff to provide more adequate care and advanced care in our specific accommodation, home care and home care. I think there are many nurses and nurses who have thought: What if I could have done more! As a nurse, I myself have on countless occasions when I worked out in home health care just thought: If I had just had to put that drop, connect that antibiotic, give blood or do that effort, we would have been able to improve the quality of life for the elderly and the quality of care significantly. The care provided in the municipalities must be given a higher status and be given better conditions. I want you as an elderly person to feel confident that you will receive the care you need and the individual assessments required, whether you are in your regular home or in your apartment in a particular accommodation. It should not matter, but you should feel confident that you will receive the care that you actually need. During the pandemic, we have received reports that many elderly people have not received an individual medical assessment. It is under all criticism and something that we must remedy as soon as we can. Just because you're older and live in a particular accommodation, you shouldn't--I really don't stress-- get general or collective treatment. Age, form of residence or principal must not affect. You are always entitled to an individual assessment, and care must always be based on the individual's needs. Anything else is unacceptable. Here the National Board of Health and Welfare must be made even clearer in its directives on the individual's right to individual assessment. If the directives are not complied with and complied with, the law must be tightened up. The presence of the doctor in the care of the elderly clearly needs to be improved and made clearer. The second part concerns the need to create better opportunities for a coherent care of the elderly. Today, care for the elderly is governed by both the Social Services Act and the Health Care Act. There are two laws that often involve double documentation and difficulties in creating coherent care with the needs of the elderly in focus. It also creates difficulties in using staff efficiently. Since the elderly very often have efforts under both legislations, we believe that these laws should be reviewed so that we can create uniform care and care for the elderly, which can both take into account the need for care and strengthen the medical elements. That is why I welcome the Government's proposal to set up an investigation into an older care bill, a proposal which we in the Center Party have been pursuing for a few years and which has now been heeded by the government. The last part, where I see huge opportunities for improvement, concerns dementia care and family support. Approximately 130 000 - 150 000 people suffer from dementia. 10,000 of them are under 65. Together with relatives, nearly 1 million people are affected. In this area we need to do more. Dementia is indeed a disease that affects not only the individual himself, but the whole family and relatives. This is why we in the Center Party want to see improved and coherent family support that gives municipalities and Försäkringskassan more tools to ensure equal opportunities for women and men. We also believe that a national strategy for family members caring for the elderly should be developed as a matter of urgency. I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 25, which deals specifically with family support. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but for the sake of time, I only ask for this to be approved.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-899	Madam President, I would like All people must meet with security, care and dignity. A country that considers that it can afford tax deductions for house cleaning for healthy people of working age must also be able to afford good and dignified care for the elderly. Elderly care has been on starvation treatment for a relatively long time and actually became a death trap for a lot of older people. That's something more people should have understood. Among those living in special housing in 2017, 78 per cent were 80 years of age or older and fragile persons. Many were dementia, had Alzheimer's and had very little resistance at all. They were very easy victims of a dangerous virus in an elderly care that was not equipped but rather decommissioned. But now most of the residents in particular have become vaccinating, and it is a great relief for them, for their relatives, and for everyone else. The Corona epidemic has exposed the shortcomings of Swedish welfare very clearly. A clear example of this is the fragmented care of the elderly, characterised by precarious employment, low wages, low staff density and, in some cases, low levels of education. Therefore, it is high time to rearrange care for the elderly. We all believe that in this Chamber. It's a plus, I think. I hope that there will be long-term efforts, so that there will be no kind of older project for three years. This is something we must invest in for a very long time, not to say always. Older people will always exist. Years of tax cuts have drained the welfare of resources, we believe. Cutbacks and privatisations have led to undersized health care and care for the elderly with a shortage of staff, equipment and protective clothing. We could also see this during the initial phase of the pandemic: for about a month there were no protective equipment for those who worked there. It is very serious and has of course caused more people to become infected, except that it has been a serious infection. In home care, staffing is low, the number of timvikari is high and staff turnover is high. It is a combo that has had devastating consequences during the Corona crisis. Madam President, I would like Every fourth person working in municipal care is employed on a temporary basis, and every fifth is employed on an hourly basis. The worst is in the Stockholm region. In Stockholm, it has been about 40 per cent in municipal housing that is specifically employed for hours. That's extreme, of course. It is only when covid-19 has entered the care of the elderly that it has become a bet. I find that tragic. Perhaps we should all have helped with this, I think. We've looked down. We have said the same things in this Chamber, Madam President. We have said that, according to a large study, seven out of ten nurses in the care of the elderly feel that the staffing is inadequate every week. 42% of them believe that staffing is so low that it poses a risk to the elderly at least one day a week. This was before covid-19. Then you understand something about what happened next. Another big survey has also been made in the Nordic countries – Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden – and looked at home care staff between 2005 and 2015. In the big comparison, we are absolutely the worst in the class. There you can see that Sweden is very low when it comes to how mentally and physically heavy the staff experience their work. So we have problems in care for the elderly. The Corona Commission said that this is the responsibility of the government. It's the government's responsibility, of course. The government rules the kingdom. This government was appointed about a year before the pandemic struck. Before that we had a government with S and MP, where the Left Party was the one they negotiated with, so to speak. Before that, the Alliance sat for eight years, 2006 – 2014. I think that, Madam President, they had a huge focus on tax cuts and welfare cuts. I think I have to say that we're all responsible. About a month and a half ago, the Left presented in the Finance Committee a committee initiative to strengthen care for the elderly. I must also say that the government, along with its support parties and friends the Center and Liberals, has put money into the care of the elderly. We felt that more was needed, and we thought it was appropriate to do so now and not wait. As far as the committee initiative is concerned, we hooked arms with the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, and after a long discussion we came up with some building blocks in this. We will work to remedy the structural deficiencies, which have been known for a long time. It is about the medical skills, which many have raised here, that we have to do something about. It is about reducing hourly employment – it is a must – and about increasing the continuity of staff. The Left Party also believes – we did not get that with us M and KD – that we should try to settle with the market thinking that has for too long dominated the concern for our elderly. Trying to reduce costs and pursue money in the care of the elderly is simply not a way forward. It is mostly women who work in the care of the elderly, Madam President. 87% of employees are women. They have a tough working environment when it comes to stress and stress. Many are forced to work shared tours. It's incredible with a long unpaid break in the middle of the day. Not many would accept that. This, of course, has affected the elderly. So what do we want to bet on? Well, secure and permanent full-time employment is a matter of course. There should be trained nurses, nurses and nurses full-time, not on some strange part-time. It should be an increased staff density and an investment in further training. We have talked about this, and it must be something continuous, not just something that we are going into now because it is current with the pandemic, so to speak. Of course, it is also a question of medical competence, to which I will return. It's incredibly important. These are very sick and fragile people. Of course there should be medical expertise. There should be doctors, whatever happens to them, whether they will be municipal employees or listed on health centres and so on. Within the area of activity determined by the municipality, there shall be nurses with a special medical responsibility: medically responsible nurses. We in the Left Party believe that the medical nurse has a very important role to play in checking this with safety and quality. We believe that the medical nurse, MAS, should have the authority to inspect municipal and private health care providers. That's why I'm lifting reservation number 9.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-918	Madam President, I would like In order not to forget this, I will say that the Christian Democrats are of course behind all their own proposals, but for time, I only call for reservation 10 and for the proposal on the two announcements. Madam President, I would like I could start by listing everything the Christian Democrats want with care for the elderly. I could say, we want 2,000 new nurses. We want MAR. We want to remove the ban on hiring doctors municipally. We want shelters. But, Madam President, I won't do it. I'll start where we have to start when we have an older debate. For me as a Christian Democrat, it is important to start at the right end, that is to say with the wishes and needs of the elderly and of the elderly. The starting point for all older people's policies must be how the older person can best create his or her life. Based on the will and needs of the elderly, resources should be made available. In order for the elderly to get as good as possible on their own terms, staff and properties are needed. But it is worth remembering the priority: the elderly, the staff, the real estate. The elderly is the goal, and staff and real estate are the means to achieve it. Today there are two dominant opportunities for the elderly to get help: home care and especially housing. Both are quite excellent in the right context, but it should reasonably be the responsibility of all politicians to offer more alternatives. We propose a substantial expansion of so-called sheltered housing, a form of housing where older people can move when their own house becomes too large or when the apartment becomes too large, or if you feel lonely or have become a widow or widower. In the shelters there are common spaces and access to assistance of various kinds. And if your needs increase, you can get more help. Then we believe that the person who has reached the age of 85 should reasonably have the right to request accommodation with support without aid assessment. In these pandemic times, issues of care for the elderly have taken a large place in the general debate, not least when it has become apparent that care for the elderly is suffering from major structural problems. These include, for example, a lack of protective equipment, too many hourly workers and shared tours. Here it is appropriate to thank a majority in the committee for supporting the announcement that continuity in care for the elderly is important. Managers have unreasonably many employees. There's too little medical resources and too few nurses. Generally speaking, there are too few staff with relevant training. The lack of medical competence is particularly serious, as it poses a direct danger to the elderly. The nurse is the medical competence that must first be expanded. The number of nurses in care for the elderly is far too low. We set aside funds for 2,000 new nurses. The right of municipalities to employ doctors must also be introduced for those who wish to do so. Both IVO and the Corona Commission state that the structural deficiencies have made a strong contribution to the fact that covid-19 has hit the elderly in home care and special housing. Madam President, I would like It is well known that the government, at its post-election elections in 2014, relegated the Elderly Investigation on structural deficiencies in elderly care to a rock room somewhere. May be that a incoming government does not want to pursue a previous government investigation-- it has happened before, and it will happen again. What is amazing, and this is where the government deserves criticism, is that it did not start its own work to get away from the structural shortcomings. Through this Swedish elderly care has lost more than six years. One should then ask whether this is an individual mistake. Unfortunately, the answer is no. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's governance of elderly care states that the alliance government's ageing effort in 2010–2014 in the positive parts has not been well managed by the current government. It therefore feels like a recurring theme: It is more important not to take advantage of the good work of the alliance government than to protect the elderly and their right to good care. This is not to say that the government wants to hurt or does everything wrong. There are many examples where the government has acted correctly, and then they have also received our support. But even if you're on the right track, it's not always enough. It may not be surprising when elderly care competes with such important things as e-bike subsidies and family weeks. Madam President, I would like However, there is now an opportunity for the government parties and others in the January agreement to take responsibility for the real and long-term improvement of the structural deficiencies of elderly care. We in this House will have the opportunity to vote on more than 4 billion more for elderly care on the basis of proposals from KD, M and V. It will make a difference. Madam President, I would like There is a terrible view of the elderly. The fact that so many older people have died prematurely because of covid-19 has often been met with the attitude that they would soon have died anyway. What is that view of fellow humans? Sure, we're all going to die, but reasonably, the life of the elderly is just as important as everyone else's. This way of thinking is a sign that older people are not seen as important as younger ones. In the end, it can end up in a utilitarian approach, that is, that man is judged according to his qualities and for what benefit he can be. A society in which the value of man is judged by something other than that he is just a human being becomes an inhuman society. Here we all have a common responsibility to maintain the equal, unique and inviolable value of all.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-933	Madam President, I would like Last autumn I got the privilege to meet elderly care staff who work in home care and at retirement homes. The staff told me how difficult it was at first not to have protective equipment or good enough routines. There were many hourly employees since before but also for the staff to be at home at the least symptoms. The staff told us about the stress, pressure and minute - controlled schedules and about putting on and off protective equipment in the stairwells. Not a single minute was added despite the fact that there was already a tight schedule. The staff told us about the fear of getting infected, of infecting one of the elderly or of taking the infection home to their own relatives because there was no protective equipment. There was not enough knowledge, and the managers had too many to take responsibility for. It was a work environment that wasn't okay. It was a tremendous stress for those who worked there and incredibly tough and worried. They liked to hear that we invested in care for the elderly, but in order to succeed, we also need to invest in the staff. Madam President, I would like I was therefore going to ask the same question to the Christian Democrats' Michael Anefur as I did to the Moderates. How do the Christian Democrats talk to their municipal politicians so that investments in care for the elderly will strengthen and improve care for the elderly? What will the Christian Democrats do to ensure that the efforts of the elderly are not directed towards tax cuts, privatisations or other projects in which the Christian Democrats are involved?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-938	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Ann-Christin Ahlberg! I'll go straight to the real questions and answer them. What was about resources and better working conditions I felt that we were very much in agreement. In fact, I think the honourable Member is doing some strange reflections here. I have not seen any municipality, which is Christian Democratly led in any case, which would use the money for tax cuts. I am convinced that the money in the vast majority of municipalities in Sweden goes to elderly care. Earlier this morning we agreed that we should check this out properly. Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg says, privatizations, as if it were something extremely ugly. I don't think so, of course. The important thing is what care and welfare we get out of the money we invest; it can be municipal or private. It is not really essential, but the essential thing is what we get out of the money. That is why I think the honourable Member's question is a little insidious in the sense that we are talking about privatisation in a way so that the environment can see that it is negative. It doesn't have to be at all. There are private performers who have been terrible. And so there are private performers who are absolutely phenomenal, just as there are municipal that are bad and municipal that are amazing. It is not the mode of operation that is important, but the result. It will therefore be insidious to talk about privatisation so that we will see it as something negative. I don't. I do not share that view.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-943	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the fact that I received a reply from the Christian Democrats' representative in this House, unlike what I received earlier from the Moderates. I also wonder whether Michael Anefur, too, has heard and received signals that it is not going to use the money now directed at elderly care, something that we Social Democrats are extremely concerned about. Our picture is not that the care of the elderly has everything it needs. It needs both to be developed and to have more resources, because it deserves our elderly. Freedom of choice can be discussed in many different ways. For me, it's not about who owns the retirement home. For me, that's what the elderly want to choose from their retirement home. Madam President, I would like Michael Anefur reported in his speech that the government threw away the investigation. But the government already invested money in the care of the elderly in 2014 in connection with the change of power. We are now investing a lot of money in the whole welfare sector and in the Elderly Care Lift and more. But now in opposition the Christian Democrats want to invest money. During the eight years of Christian Democrats' leadership in the alliance government, efforts on care for the elderly were not made; instead, major tax cuts were given priority. At that time, staffing in the whole welfare sector fell. Madam President, I would like Is it possible to rely on the efforts made by the honourable Member?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-948	Madam President, I would like Once again, we are faced with an insidious issue. I said the investigation had the task of looking at the structural defects in the care of the elderly. I understand that the government said they didn't want to continue the investigation, but they should have put something in its place. The honourable Member's answer to this was that the elderly were given more money. But that is not what the investigation was about, but how we get to grips with the structural problems. I mean, seriously, we've lost six years. Now the government is on its way. Now the government is saying that it wants to invest in the structural problems. We knew that six years ago. Unfortunately, I can say that the government has not done much in this respect. With regard to the mandates of the alliance government, there were many things that were good for the elderly as well. I will admit that I do not know all the figures in my head, but I do not think Mrs Ahlberg can either. It's more about the mantra that during the alliance period everything went downhill, and when this government started everything went well. None of those descriptions are really true. In order for us to have an elderly care that will work in the future, we should not just relate to what has been. Our joint work in the Committee on Social Affairs is an example of much, and I hope that we can continue to be inconsistency in certain matters in good democratic order. We know from today's debates that we in the heart agree that the elderly need more resources and that the structural problems need to be addressed. We assume that the elderly will have it as well as possible. We can agree on that.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-952	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 6. Of course, we support our other reservations and announcements. I will try not to repeat too much of what has been said in all the previous debates I have taken part in this year. Care for the elderly and the elderly has really come into focus. We are now discussing only part of the package that I believe all parties have joined in this area. It is about the opportunities of year-long people to continue working, to choose accommodation and so on. The pandemic has really highlighted the shortcomings that exist in the care of the elderly since the 1992 nobles reform. What was positive was that the noble reform focused on the individuals having good housing throughout the life journey. This is why care homes have been created – special accommodations, as the legislation says. There we have achieved success, and many more accommodations need to be built. People in many parts of the country have to wait too long at home, and we need to stimulate construction. The noble reform was clear that old age would not be mediated. It was trumpeted out. The reform meant that people no longer needed to be in twelve-bed rooms in long-term care. Nor were they confined to nursing homes where they also shared rooms and were isolated. Now they would live as normal a life as possible, and then we got the nursing and care homes. However, the municipalities did not understand what responsibility for healthcare was taken on, and these are the shortcomings that have become so clear. We have pointed out the shortcomings and we have kindly nodded to what we have said. But it has been something of the hypocrisy of benevolence, and it has not become a reality of benevolence. Now I think that what has been highlighted makes all generations realise that we must also invest in the year-long generation. Now it's going to be an old-time care team. Although I scratch my head a little; who is older, who will be covered by the law? In the EU, there are many countries where it is considered that it is older from the age of 50. In Sweden, most of the 70 years of age, which the Swedish Public Health Agency went out with when the pandemic started, looks like some kind of limit. I hope then that when the National Board of Health and Welfare in the inquiry will formulate which ones are older does not choose chronological age but will see to what needs to be met when one comes up in the years. These are individual needs that may differ. I hope that the 50-year-olds affected by dementia are not excluded. They must not fall outside the legislation if they need housing. This is not an easy area to work with. We need to upgrade and equip everyone who works here to face the complex issues and situations. They're in home care and home care. Home care will increase rapidly with opportunities for new technologies. I have dealt with this issue in an earlier debate during the parliamentary year. So there is a need to improve the skills of doctors. The Geriatrics must be given a clear place in education and training. More nurses are needed in the care of the elderly, not to mention the nurses. They are a very important group in health care and care. Then we must not forget the relatives. The relatives care for a large part of the elderly, and they must be included in the teams around a patient. It is also a question of providing quality of life. Look at what happened to the restraining order on the accommodations! I am currently involved in a study on cats in the accommodations. It has been shown in the follow-up how important it was for the residents who were not allowed to see their husband or wife that there was at least one cat in the accommodation to clap and hug when they had a lack of hugs. I would like to end by saying that this is not a simple job. We need to invest so that staff, doctors, nurses – all of them – and relatives have the knowledge to give the main character, the year-long elderly care provider, the elderly home care provider, and so on, what it needs. Now I repeat myself: one must dare to live life the whole journey of life.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-965	Madam President, I would like Very good has already been said. The problem at the end of the debate is to add something. I would like to start from a key word, which I believe is an important word to take advantage of in the further work: pride. The way to an elderly care that we can all be proud of in this House is through staff who go to work every day with a sense of pride. I am thinking of a pride based on every employee being able to provide care and care with dignity, care for and dialogue with the elderly. It is a pride that is based on trust in the professionalism of the employees in the profession they have chosen, a confidence that they create value for those they are for and trust that the employee can read and meet the individual needs of the year-long people they meet in the care of the elderly. It should not be like today when much of the care is marked by control, unsustainable minute schedules and stress. I am also thinking of a pride that makes young people, who are about to choose education in high school, choose to train in health care based on an effort to one day be able to go to work and feel the pride that I just described. Today, every second employee in care for the elderly is thinking about changing their profession. You probably don't go to work with pride, but with a lump in your stomach. Am I gonna make it? Can I meet that desire or need of the elderly, or will it cause my schedule to crack so that the rest of the day I have to run? Madam President, I would like You might wonder how we got here. How did every second employee in care for the elderly think about changing their profession? Some blame new public management, some blame privatisation, some blame underfunding, some blame welfare gains, some blame savings and some blame rigid public administrations. Today, some are also blaming an abandoned public investigation, as we have heard earlier in this debate. Perhaps the truth lies within all that I have just mentioned. My picture is that some employees in both municipal and private businesses go to work with pride and that some go with the described lump in the stomach. It is not possible to find a clear picture, at least not when I look out over our country. To reach an elderly care to be proud throughout the country, we need to find solutions for the staff to find their way back to that pride. Basically, it is about how to organize the work and what conditions you set. Is it the key that we in this House have detailed governance? No, I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. We believe in giving the local level the power and tools to develop new methods, perhaps new working time models and new governance models. They're supposed to be based on trust. That's why I'm proud of the government's commitment to care for the elderly. As part of the initiative, there is a recovery bonus for health care professionals and elderly care workers. This bonus is a long-term addition to municipalities and regions and is not based on detailed management from the departments or the Riksdag. It is based on a dialogue in which funds can be sought to develop local work, such as methods and trust management. Of course, this initiative will not solve all the problems and challenges that exist. But I am convinced that it will contribute. As has also been mentioned earlier, the pandemic has led to the big difference that the living conditions of older people and older people are at the top of the political agenda. I have tried to describe how, with the help of the pride of the individual employee, we will find a way back to dignity and increased quality in care for the elderly. I'd like to take this opportunity to lift up reservation number 10.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-975	Madam President, I would like For many people, feeling good is a matter of course. For others, it is a constant struggle to feel good. Some suffer depression and anxiety. Others suffer from severe chronic illness that significantly impairs their mental health and quality of life. Ill health can affect anyone, while there are health differences due to living conditions and habits. The great differences in living conditions can be influenced by the public, and knowledge of good living habits exists. What is needed is a sustainable approach that allows all sectors of society to contribute to the good mental health of the entire population. Healthcare will help us to feel good and provide care when we have become ill. This means that healthcare has both a health promotion and a caring mission. Health care needs to cope with both the broad health-promoting mission and the provision of care to severely chronically ill patients, both in the case of mental and somatic illness. If all of this is to work, healthcare needs to be resourced correctly, so that they have more employees and so that patients have the chance to have a continuous relationship with the care contact they need. Therefore, a fixed medical contact for the patient and a reasonable patient list for the district doctor are two necessary parts to create the conditions for both the health promotion work and the caring assignment in primary care. Madam President, I would like School is also an important part of the effort that needs to be made to improve mental health. A reasonable number of pupils per teacher, more professions, such as physiotherapists and occupational therapists, who contribute alongside the assignment of teachers, and an expanded child and youth health are also important. Civil society gives many people meaningful leisure time and opportunities for community. Public support for civil society needs to be increased and improved in order to give more people the chance to participate. Madam President, I would like Forced loneliness affects health. No matter what age, relationships are important. A good relationship enriches life. The public has a responsibility to create the conditions for community. It is about how towns and cities are planned and about housing opportunities, access to culture and much more. Civil society is also an important force for breaking unwanted loneliness. Mental ill-health is a major reason for sick leave today. Illness can be caused by different things that have nothing to do with the work. But the employer's commitment is an important part of sustainable rehabilitation for the employee. Good mental health is an important objective of public health policy. But it cannot be solved solely by the individual or by the health service. There are many sectors that need to work together to make a lasting change. Increased mental illness in children and young people is worrying. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, more and more young people say that they have mental problems such as anxiety or anxiety. It is mainly depression, anxiety disorders and addiction that are increasing. There has also been an increase in the number of young people who need hospitalization due to mental illness. There are no sure and complete answers to what is the reason for the development of mental illness among children and young people today. But there are things that we already know about in order to be able to start work and reverse developments. Madam President, I would like Not all concern leads to the need for health care. It needs to be pointed out that there is a risk of medicating everything that belongs to the tricky path of life. Such concerns and feelings of ill health must be met in other ways, and the public can be a supportive party there as well. Being able to talk about the concerns you feel right now does not always require new forms of care or activities. For example, if the care of the elderly and the school had a better staffing, more employees, there would be time for the extra conversation when the worry comes. If needed, there should of course be the possibility of more developed help. Too often we miss that older people can also suffer from mental illness and be affected by severe mental illness. We therefore want to raise the reservation that we support, which is that we need more knowledge of and more resources for older psychiatrists. We want to create a national centre of competence for elderly psychiatry. That is why I am lifting reservation number 4, which deals with precisely this and which we want to be examined by the House. Finally, Madam President, all sectors of society must contribute to good mental health. Everyone has to do their part. Through the proposals put forward by the Christian Democrats in Parliament, we want to contribute to better conditions for good mental health. Let this be an important objective of public health policy, and let us jointly ensure that all sectors of society contribute to that objective!
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-988	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating mental health, a subject that is almost daily affected in the media. As a politician, I am one of all actors who devote a lot of energy to trying to reduce mental illness. We have been living with the pandemic for over a year now, and although we see the light in the tunnel with the vaccinations, I and many with me are afraid that mental illness will have to meet and be handled for a long time to come. The reason for mental illness can now be, for example, that one has been isolated in one's home, has lost a loved one, suffered financial distress due to unemployment or is simply worried about becoming unemployed. Working from home has its advantages, but it has also limited social life. Perhaps it was the social community at work that made you get up in the morning. It's easy to lose your footing when no one asks what it's like. Of course, the pandemic has also affected the health and well-being of children and young people. Madam President, I would like We don't know the full consequences – what it does to us humans to be unable to hug loved ones for a long time. We all think that there is reason to feel some concern about mental health in the future. Even before the covid-19 pandemic and before the care was forced to reset its operations, the care queues were long and growing, including the queues for bup, children's and young people's psychiatry. In addition to the necessary measures to reduce the acute health debt, a methodical effort is therefore required to further develop the queue billions in order to reduce queues. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to reinforce and develop the queue billions. Among other things, some resources should be directed directly to children's and young people's psychiatry. The strengthening of the care guarantee for children and young people with mental ill health, who are entitled to care and support within 30 days, shall be ensured. We Moderates also want to include the first line psychiatry for children and young people so that easier psychiatric diagnoses can be handled there. In this way, resources are released for children and young people with, for example, severe anxiety, suicidal thoughts or serious eating disorders. The goal must be a queue-free child- and youth-psychiatry. Madam President, I would like Feeling mentally ill is an expression used by many, but what does it mean? Of course, it's different for each individual. For someone, it may be to feel inadequate, to make too much demands on yourself, and to find a balance in life with exercise, rest, diet, and social intercourse. Seeking help can be a big step for many. Unfortunately, there are still prejudices about mental illness in society and also great differences in treatment, accessibility and the possibility of treatment on time. Some youths testify that if they are not suicidal, their problems are not taken seriously, and they are not helped. As many as four out of ten people with experience of mental illness feel that they have been treated unfairly in health care. This is totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like We can see that co-morbidity in the form of mental illness and an addiction disease is relatively common. The Swedish Parliament decided in May 2019 to announce the need for a collective responsibility for care for co-morbidity in the form of mental illness in combination with an addiction disease. It is gratifying that the Government gave a special investigator the task of proposing how coordinated efforts in terms of care, treatment and support can be ensured for children, young people and adults with co-morbidity. We look forward with pleasure to 30 November, when the investigator will make his proposal. Madam President, I would like Mental ill health was a major and growing problem even before the pandemic. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, mental illness in children aged 10-17 has doubled over the past ten years. Today, about one in ten boys or girls experiences some form of mental illness. It is mainly depression and various anxiety disorders that contribute to the increase. Developing pupil health with more professions we see Moderates can be part of the preventive and long-term health promotion work. Physiotherapists and school psychologists could contribute to improving the quality and preventive role of pupil health. Moderates believe that more and more rapid health promotion efforts are needed to prevent mental illness and strengthen its treatment. Children's and young people's health should be more clearly linked to and collaborate with children's and young people's psychiatry, social services and health care. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to emphasise the need for a holistic approach to the care of people with mental illness, which also includes support for parents and relatives. Society must take mental illness very seriously and both invest in the health factors that can prevent and at the same time manage the expected increased mental illness as a result of the pandemic. Strengthening of municipalities and regions from the national level and a plan in all municipalities and regions is needed for what action is now to be taken. For time winning, I only ask for reservation 5, but of course we support all our reservations.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1002	Madam President, I would like A little more than a year ago, the Swedish Democrats left a committee initiative on the table of the Social Committee – a committee initiative in which we wanted to see national responsibility on the issue in view of the abolition of the national aid line. Already then we saw the importance of Sweden setting up a national hotline business. It would be for people with mental illness and suicidal thoughts. Unfortunately, our committee initiative did not receive the support of any other party, but shame anyone who surrenders. The Swedish democrats have actively continued to pursue the issue of a national support telephone, and with sharp budget allocations we have shown that we are serious. For us, the clear aim has been for Sweden to establish a national support telephone business where callers can meet with professional help at all times of the day, every day of the week. The non-profit human dialogue support, where volunteers, erratics, and clergy meet and converse with people, plays an extremely important role. The efforts made at a non-profit level are a great asset for all those affected in need of support and also for society at large. I would like to stress this point. At the same time, professional call support, where the requirement is relevant professional training, experience of having worked with mental illness and suicide, must be that offered by a support phone that is under the responsibility of the state. However, the activities and services offered in these calls shall not be considered as healthcare in itself. Rather, it is a complement to existing health care measures. This is why it is important to ensure that the transition to health care can take place in a good and smooth way when there is a need for further care. For this reason, I am incredibly pleased that the Swedish Public Health Agency in its mapping and analysis, which has been commissioned by the Government, has finally come to a conclusion that is in line with what the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time. Of course, we would have liked this important activity to have already been in place, not least since it had been a great asset during the pandemic. At the same time, the most important thing for us is that the proposal becomes a reality. Madam President, I would like Even before the pandemic, we started from a serious situation due to the complex and widespread mental illness in society. The Swedish Public Health Agency has compiled several studies in a report showing that mental illness has increased both in Sweden and internationally during the pandemic. There's a group that's been hit extra hard. Report after report now shows how hard young people's mental health is affected by the pandemic. It is a group that stands out, and it is students, who have proved to be even more vulnerable during the pandemic. Among students, the incidence of mental disorders is also usually greater in comparison with both the age group and the general population. According to the researchers, the reason why young people are particularly affected may also be that they are about to start their adult life. Their dreams and plans for the future are paused, while everyday routines change and the possibility of social contacts is reduced. The fact that the pandemic can have serious consequences such as depression, anxiety, suicidal thoughts and even suicide requires a clear strategy. We must take responsibility for the country's young and proactively work to prevent the coronapndemy from creating devastating consequences even when it comes to mental health. A first step is that we politicians here in the Swedish Parliament take this issue very seriously. The Swedish Democrats therefore also highlight the issue of preparedness for an increasing mental illness in the event of a social crisis and specifically in the event of a pandemic. We believe that a clear national commitment is needed to deal with a negative development in which the mental health of our population is seriously affected. Madam President, I would like According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's patient register, clamping was used as a coercive measure in Swedish psychiatry on 3,820 occasions in 2019, and it was 1,348 patients who were subjected to this coercive measure. In 2019 there were 197 cases where the clamping lasted longer than four hours, and 141 patients were exposed to this. Tensions are an intrusive coercive measure that can be very traumatic to those who are exposed to it. The measure can lead to post-traumatic stress syndrome and can also cause severe lasting harm to the victim. The Law on Psychiatric Obsessive Care states that coercive measures should be a final measure when all other possible alternatives have been exhausted. Despite this, we see regular reports in the media that the coercive measure is being used incorrectly, to a large extent and that it is difficult but for those affected. It is neither sustainable nor justifiable to continue using a measure that is directly inhumane. It is about severely ill individuals who are in need of care. The focus should therefore be on high quality treatment and prevention, not on finding arguments for sticking to outdated practices. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that it is time to review the phasing out of tension as a coercive measure. We believe that that is what it takes to create space for new humane treatments that actually belong in modern psychiatric care. Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of Amendment No 11.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1017	Madam President, I would like Mental illness in Sweden is increasing in some groups, especially among women and young people. The number of people who are on sick leave or are looking for treatment for mental illness has increased considerably. The causes are complex and stem from a number of factors. For young people, shortcomings in Swedish school, bullying, poor self-esteem and problems within the family are some possible causes. Women's mental illness is thought to have some connection to the effects of working full time while taking a great responsibility for the family. The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent disease control measures pose an increased risk of mental illness in the population, not least among those most affected by the measures, such as those with reduced income, unemployment and past mental illness. The January agreement has meant that many good steps have been taken to strengthen mental health in the population, but much more needs to be done. Those suffering from mental illness must have better access to rapid support. This requires increased availability in primary care. Both England and Norway have worked successfully to increase access to support for common mental conditions such as anxiety and depression. People with lighter mental disorders do not always need to meet a specialist. They can be helped by simple call support or self-help. On the other hand, the person in need of help should quickly receive a first call and assessment of the type of support needed. Sometimes it may be the lack of social contacts that is the biggest problem, where interaction with civil society and user organisations can be strengthened to support. For people with mild symptoms, online sessions and different types of self-help materials can be sufficient, while people with greater needs need to be passed on to the right level of care and get the right specialist care. Priority needs to be given to early intervention prevention, which is coordinated and coordinated. Recently, the report on Good and Close Care – The right support for mental health, which points out how we should proceed in order to improve the work of primary care. Interaction between different actors needs to be strengthened. In addition, it needs to be easier for children and guardians to get help through student health in cases of mental illness. There too, access must be increased both in primary care and in children's and young people's psychiatry for those children who need more support. Impairment due to stress and fatigue symptoms has been increasing steadily since 2010. The majority of those on sick leave, nearly 80 percent, are women, many with young children. More efforts must be made here, both preventive, therapeutic and rehabilitative. In addition, more research is needed. A few steps have been taken in the research bill, but there really needs to be improvements in this area, including in terms of knowledge support for those who will treat these people. There are major shortcomings here today. Being out in nature ka provide positive effects for people with stress, anxiety, depression and fatigue. Research shows that people with stress-related mental illness can benefit greatly from undergoing green rehabilitation and feel that the supportive environment contributes to reduced stress levels, return to work and structure in everyday life. The Center Party believes that green rehabilitation is interesting and should be followed up with further investigation and evaluation. We want to see evidence-based further development of green rehabilitation throughout the country. Many pensioners have an active lifestyle and a good life. But there are also elderly people who feel worse, many in the body, others psychologically and some of course both. Over half of the elderly who have home care say that they are troubled by loneliness, and during the coronapendemin there are of course far more. Loneliness increases the risk of mental illness and depression. A feeling of not being needed in combination with a lack of friends and social context creates great suffering for many people. Today, widowers are the biggest risk group for suicide in Sweden, and one in five over retirement age is deemed to suffer from some form of mental illness. For these elderly people, care needs to be better at catching up with mental illness and not just the purely physical ailments that often come with aging. There is a need for accessible social meeting places and for daily activities for the elderly to continue to develop throughout the country. This could involve working outreach to involve older people in social activities and increasing cooperation and support for associations and civil society. You also need to do better medical follow-up when it comes to antidepressants and other medicines linked to mental illness. Against this background, the Center Party wants the government to review the efforts of municipalities and regions to prevent, capture and treat the mental health of elderly people. It is about reviewing research needs and how evidence-based knowledge of well-functioning interventions can be disseminated. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1032	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has hit so hard that we have to prepare for an increase in mental illness in many groups. The isolation of older people, distance learning for children and young people and unemployment are at risk of increasing mental illness. There are so many children who have suffered during the pandemic. International studies show that in those countries that have closed down more than we have in Sweden, children and young people are a severely affected group. Those parents who did not feel well mentally before the pandemic may feel even worse now, and parents with addiction also have an enormous impact on their children. For many children and young people, school is a free zone, and distance education exacerbates the situation of these children. We have to keep an eye on that. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants the government to come back with proposals for new legislation in which children of parents with mental illness or addiction are entitled to their own support at an early stage. It's not like that now. It is a little free workshop depending on where you live and who you know. That's not how it's supposed to be. Children of parents with mental illness and substance abuse problems should be guaranteed their own help. The National Board of Health and Welfare should be tasked with reviewing the conditions for increased monitoring of newly ill young adults nationally. You have a much better forecast if you follow up directly than if it happens a few years later. We also need to make greater efforts to find risk groups for mental illness at an early stage. Being able to help early is crucial to the success of children and young people. It is about trust in your own ability to learn and develop to strengthen and trust that the environment cares. We also believe that addiction and mental ill-health should be included in the mission of youth clinics. Youth receptions need to be upgraded and strengthened. They can be a good base for first-line help when it comes to young people from, say, 15 years old. Madam President, I would like If Jack Nicholson's figure Nicholson in the film Gökboet had ended up in our time, he would probably be very surprised. Although we have removed authoritarian mental hospitals, mental ill-health is increasing among under pressure children and adults in our increasingly unequal society. We also need to understand the causal link. There is a lot of focus on the child and the family, but the causal link often extends beyond it. Mental illness in children aged 10 to 17 years has increased by 100 per cent in ten years. It is about all the conditions, from anxiety and general discomfort to anxiety and more difficult conditions. Many reports from Bris, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare show that mental illness does not strike blindly, but is strongly related to economic and social vulnerability. Problems such as anxiety, anxiety and insomnia are almost twice as common in people with short education and low income. Madam President, I would like Women feel mentally worse than men. Even worse are those with a non-European background who work with low wages and uncertain conditions. The worse the economy families report, the worse the family is. The fourth of all pupils with the lowest grades in grade 9 in comprehensive school are six times more likely to attempt suicide than the fourth with the highest grades. That's what we need to look at. The school is an important place, and therefore the school must also be able to accommodate all types of students. But that's not how school looks anymore. School plays a very important preventive role, and with a segregated school we tend to have huge problems in the future. Madam President, I would like We need to invest more resources directly in both child and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry. Today, however, there is a shortage of psychologists, specialist nurses and psychiatrists. The key to a robust child and youth psychology is of course staff. More people need to be trained, and we need national training plans. Employees should also have good wages and good working conditions. The Left Party believes that there is basically only a really good recipe against the increasing mental illness, and it is an equal society with rapid intervention, good care and medication that is being followed up. A school that accommodates all students and where everyone feels that they have a chance to live is also an incredibly important prerequisite for feeling good in life. Then it is important that people who are being given medication for different types of psychiatric conditions have access to a continuous care contact, where regular follow-ups regarding specific medication are made, but that is not the case today. This is extremely important. The treating physician and patient must evaluate the effect of the medication on the patient in conversation. There are currently too many psychiatric diagnoses that have major side effects from the medication, and this risks affecting patient safety. Depression is very serious. It can be a fatal disease when you're depressed. For this group there must be not only medicine but also therapy, but it is very thin. I'm not going to talk about addiction today. We will come back to this in April. Nevertheless, I would like to express the clear view of the Left Party that the head of addiction care for people over 18 years of age should be transferred to the dependent units of the regions. Cooperation and responsibility are often lacking, so there is a great risk of people being pushed back and forth between health care, psychiatry and social services rather than getting the help they need directly. We will discuss this more in this House. I request the approval of reservation 12.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1050	Madam President, I would like When it comes to mental health and ill-health, care for people in need of psychiatric care must be improved. People need better care and support. At the same time, we are seeing an increasing number of sick leave. All this is far from just a health issue, Madam President. It is a change in which we must involve the whole of society, and efforts are on the way. The Liberals, together with the Center Party and the Government, have secured historic efforts to prevent mental illness and extreme suicide, Madam President. It is about support for municipalities, regions and civil society. I look forward to strengthening the close care for mental illness in the long term. Knowledge of what works is needed, continuity is needed and relationships are needed between the person who needs care and those who will provide care and support. The national strategy that is on the way, I think, will also help. It will allow more people to survive and thrive and live their lives. Here it is important that particular focus is placed on those people and groups who are most at risk of developing mental illness, such as people with disabilities, LGBTQ people, people who are victims of violence and oppression and people who are far from the labour market and have a short education and very poor economy. Things are coming, which makes me happy, and more is going to happen. The Parliament indicated in this House almost two years ago that the safety net must be improved for those of us who suffer from addiction and who at the same time have another psychiatric diagnosis, such as bipolar disorder, anorexia and schizophrenia. Today, these people can end up completely between the chairs because the municipality has a partial responsibility for them and the region has responsibility for another part. In some cases, these people become black people when they need society most. I very much hope that the Community Health Investigation will be the lifebuoy that these people so badly need. So very good things are going on. It was certainly not better before, but we have a long way to go. And more is needed, especially for the very youngest and the very oldest of us. We Liberals have negotiated an agreement with the Center Party and the government parties of half a billion in order to prevent and advance mental illness among children and young people and to strengthen child and youth psychiatry for those who need it. We have also launched a government inquiry into good, close and coherent care for children, from before they are born until they are ready for flight. I think this is very important. But there are things that aren't going on but that should be, things that aren't even close to being done but that really would have to be decided. The legislation on psychiatric care, for example, is limping. It's not good enough. The law needs to be changed, especially when it comes to children, from today's parental perspective to having children's needs in focus. It must be made crystal clear in Swedish legislation that every child has the right to information, participation, influence and support. We Liberals also want children who have parents or siblings in prison or jail to get a better start in life, and we want the government to support organisations that help these children. That is why I would like to highlight reservation 8, which deals with these two specific proposals for children's chances of a good start in life. Finally, we have the oldest of us. There is a need for more knowledge about aging and clearly how ageing can affect us physically and mentally. A national centre of competence for older people's psychiatry could increase the knowledge about mental health and illness in the elderly, and provide better opportunities for health care and care workers to cure and alleviate. We have therefore agreed with the Christian Democrats' proposal that the government should set up such a centre of excellence. But we also want to act here and now. We are lagging behind, and action is needed now. Here we fully agree with the Center Party that the government should also review efforts to prevent, catch up and treat the mental ill health of the elderly in the near future. Good health and quick help – no matter which one of us is affected, there should be knowledge, consideration and good support when life breaks down.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1060	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Mental ill-health is the major public health challenge of our time. Every year nearly 1,600 people take their lives. Suicide among children and young people is increasing, and every year more than 5,000 children and young people up to 24 are cared for for for suicide attempts. More than 50,000 children and young people each year have thoughts about taking their own lives. Some 700 people die every year because of stress, and in 2019 70 000 people were sick because of stress-related diseases, which often affect mental health. Seventy-five per cent of them were women, and the most common occupation among them was contact occupations. All deaths are deeply tragic, and we need to put more emphasis on mental illness in order to improve it. Madam President, I would like The government is working to develop a new strategy on mental illness and suicide prevention. The strategy should focus on good, equal and equal mental health throughout the population, where prevention should be the focus. A gender perspective shall be taken into account, as well as those groups most at risk of mental illness or suicide. It is important to look at mental illness from a gender perspective. Women have a 41% higher risk than men of stress-related diseases, that is, often mental illness, and 70% of the deceased in suicide are men. The Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have received this assignment and must report it by 1 September 2023. The Government has also made an agreement with SKR on efforts in municipalities and regions to promote mental health. More knowledge is needed in the first line of care. There primary care is important, and a way in is needed to get the right help at the right time. It is important that we all dare to ask sometimes: How are you? Health insurance and the working environment in the contact professions also need to be improved, while at the same time focusing on psychiatry, accessibility and improvement of the quality of care. Other support measures for people with mental illness are also very important, but also the social measures that we can all be part of. We need to have a much better understanding that mental illness is an unhealthy state in the same way as breaking a bone. But it is still so shameful to talk about your mental health. We need to change this. It is also important to remember that we need to be prepared for the negative effects of covid-19 resulting from mental illness. And I know the government has a focus on this. Madam President, I would like Already in school, many young people are caught up who feel very bad. Then student health is important to have access to. Often you hear that the school nurse is great. But they are not always there when the students need them because of scheduled meetings with both students and others. When the help is needed at its best, the help may not be in place. In the January agreement we have agreed that student health should be strengthened, and we have a goal of a queue-free child and youth psychiatry. An investigation will review the conditions for a coherent good and close care for children and young people, and the investigator will provide suggestions and documentation so that we can get there. The investigation will be reported in spring. It is important that people with mental illness are taken seriously and get the right help, that waiting for care – if needed – will be short and that children and young people who need specialist care will have access to BUP. Madam President, I would like There are many reasons why people suffer from mental illness. It can be relationships that have broken, it can be losses, divorces, unemployment and more. But it can also be loneliness in connection with covid-19. It can also be about what demands we make on ourselves. What requirements does our work or environment place on us? But it can also be about working life and its conditions – stress, pressure, too little time for recovery, lack of influence and lack of ability to influence your work situation. These are also things that are not good for our mental health. The limitless work – to always be available in your mobile or computer in your spare time, in case of a vab or illness – is also not always good for our health. It is important that we have time for recovery, time for our leisure activities and time for our family in order to balance our lives. These are important things for good mental health. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that we need to have more knowledge, and we need to be better at seeing, detecting and preventing mental illness. This is good for all of us, because we can all suffer from mental illness.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1079	Madam President, I would like This whole area touches me deeply after reading about the issues that the committee has been working on. In 2014, I met a number of young women who had been hospitalized in closed psychiatry and had been subjected to belting and separation, as it is so beautifully called, although it is really isolation. We talked a lot about this and about their experiences about it. I also understood that when they tried to trace back, it turned out that the hospital that had performed this care lacked registration. There were requirements already then that this should be registered – that there should be notes, records and so on. But it was missing. Perhaps it was due to some computer error. In principle, it can be said that these women were locked in and locked up without there being medical assessments for it. At least it's not documented. Max Weber, who was a political scientist, philosopher or similar, said that what distinguishes the state from all other organizations is the state's monopoly of violence. The state has a monopoly of violence through police and military, but indeed also through health care. And to strap or lock up children is to practice violence, even if it is known as treatment. My meeting with these young women led to a motion that I wrote together with some party friends and was approved in Västra Götaland. In the exercise, we proposed a zero vision of child and youth psychiatry in the field of belting and separation. This vision later spread across the country. And I know that several regions have taken similar decisions later. There is now also an updated law from 1 July 2020. There we have said in this House that we actually want to follow up the use of coercive measures against our citizens in a better and clearer way and that there should be rights linked to this too. Then there are some other things in this report. This is, for example, a queue-free child- and youth-psychiatry. Child and youth psychiatry is a highly specialised activity. Those who believe that they should be able to solve mental ill health in society probably need to think about it. However, I believe that no one in this House seems to believe it. But we need to work on the first line, as it's called. It can be primary care, youth clinics, social services and school health care. It is about the adults who meet mainly children with mental illness and that these children can get a quick and professional treatment and are taken seriously. And there should be treatments available. It is in the direction of increasingly being mediated by mental ill-health, and I think that is something we need to be observant of both in this House and in all regional parliaments around the country. Madam President, I would like What I think has been interesting about the pandemic in terms of mental health is that the pandemic has somehow opened up to a new form of solidarity or humanity. We have seen different groups in social media where people offer to shop for the elderly and provide different types of services for those who have become isolated. The pandemic is an experience we all share – no one really goes unmoved through it or is not affected by it – and I think it can be a starting point for finding a conversation and solidarity in our society. It should not only be about helping each other buy food, even if we obviously need to help people with it, but we should also dare and be able to ask the question.How are you feeling? 中 – and listen to the answer. It's about being a fellow human being. Very often you see that those who feel really bad in mental illness lack network; they lack people in their vicinity to share problems and happy moments with. If, after all, the pandemic were to bring something good, then that would be it. I would like to conclude by saying something like someone in the Senate in Rome, I think it was: moreover, I believe that addiction care should have a principal. I may well continue to say this in every speech in the future, but at least I think so. It is good that the issue is under investigation and that we will soon reach its conclusion. Otherwise, I support the committee's position.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1089	Madam President, I would like It has been a pleasure listening to the debate. There has been a lot of focus on facts and on caring for some of the most vulnerable in society. Everyone has agreed that the person suffering from a disease should have care and that that care should be based on science. This should, of course, apply to all healthcare interventions, but I must say that it should not apply to those suffering from the disease of drug abuse – at least not according to the government. The government, headed by the Minister for Social Affairs and the Prime Minister, is building its policy on drugs and drug abuse on myths such as the fact that drugs are something that rich young people are doing, Madam President – despite the fact that all science shows that drugs are most widespread at the bottom of society and that that is where the most vulnerable are affected. The Norwegian Government, on the other hand, wants to build its drug policy on science and proven experience and goes from punishment to help. The aim is to decriminalise drug use, because it has been concluded that it is the best way to help the most vulnerable. This has been done through a thorough investigation, and the committee has come to the same conclusion: it must be investigated how we create the best care and ensure that care for the most vulnerable abusers is actually improved. This is something that the Public Health Agency would like, and it is something that the research would like to see. We want to be able to move from ideas to facts. The Swedish government, on the other hand, wants to continue to build its drug policy on the gut and goes from error to error. It is difficult to interpret it as something other than that you do not care about helping the most vulnerable, because, despite the unanimous decision of the Riksdag, you refuse to investigate how we create the best care. But that may also be why we are the country in Europe where the most addicts die. Madam President, I would like I don't have a motion today. While the Minister of Social Affairs chooses to ignore research, other countries' experiences and the advice of his own authorities, both the committee and the parliament have said that it must be investigated how we create the best policy. The Parliament is therefore in favour of building abuse policy on facts. Instead, what I have is an appeal to the government: it is time for drugs policy to be based on science and proven experience. That is the least you can demand from a Minister of Social Affairs and a government.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1094	Madam President, I would like It's getting hot in the Arctic. It is a multifaceted formulation that illustrates the development of the northern parts. Climate change is evident with rising temperatures, melting ice and fainting polar bears remaining in shrinking bodies. Professor Michael Tjernström spoke for the Nordic Council when the session was held here in Stockholm in autumn 2019. He then pointed to how the temperature rises fastest at the North and South Poles. In the Arctic it is a matter of several degrees change, with everything that that means. It's getting hot. The Arctic is not only a natural environment for powerful creatures on land and in the sea, but also home to indigenous peoples and others who have come there through the centuries. This places reasonable demands on living, living and working in the Arctic region. It is therefore important not to create any contradiction between people far away who have views on mines, hunting and fishing and the population concerned, who want a working day. Sweden will promote sustainability, both environmentally, economically and socially, in terms of future extraction of natural resources in the Arctic. Sweden as a country also depends on a well-functioning and secure electricity supply, which requires fossil-free electricity production – such as nuclear power. In the debate on the Arctic conditions, Madam President, it is certainly sometimes a source of heat. The Arctic, High North, is also of growing political interest: several countries, and also the EU, are developing an Arctic strategy or have already done so. Climate change makes long-term maritime transport between Asia and Europe realistic in a northern route instead of over more unsafe waters in the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and further west. It will be a shorter distance, which may be perceived as safer and more environmentally smart. With increased traffic, not only will the risk of more accidents, but countries such as the People's Republic of China also have an interest in securing and protecting their cargoes. There is already a great deal of interest on the part of Beijing – anyone who has visited Iceland, for example, can think about the large Chinese embassy complex in the middle of Reykjavik. And in Greenland, the United States has recently opened a consulate. NATO has re-established a command for the North Atlantic, and Russian nuclear capability cannot be thought of without access to submarines and bases on the Kola Peninsula. Particular attention also deserves to be paid to the Atlantic cables that literally connect Europe with North America and North America with Europe. In the event of a conflict or even a war on our continent, there is a concern that powers that wish us ill would literally wish to hijack what binds us together to prevent or greatly impede the transfer of information between Europe and North America. It is only a matter of a few hundred for us extremely important cables at the bottom of the Atlantic. As regards Russian military activity in the region, it can be noted that the state of play provided by the Government in the Arctic Strategy only links Russia's part in the ongoing arms race to its territorial claims in the region. The government chooses not to see the bigger picture, which also includes Russian power projection. In its assessment in the strategy, the government thus deviates from the Defence Committee, which, in the report Värnkraft, points out that Russia perceives itself as having national interests in the region, that Russia has expressed an ambition to control shipping through the Northeast Passage and that it is trying to create opportunities for power projection from the area. Russia's increased ambition to strengthen control of the Northeast Passage shows how important it is to maintain the idea of freedom of navigation. For the Swedish community, it is always central to guard the free shipping – in the Baltic Sea and on the Atlantic as well as in the South China Sea. In addition, Russian representatives have problematized and even relativised Norway's sovereignty over Svalbard. Russia not only claims to defend Russian territory in the Arctic, but also strives to expand its interests. This is a security policy threat for us and for our Arctic neighbours. It is undeniably hot, Madam President. Ice melting clarifies the link between climate change and military security. A Swedish Arctic Strategy must of course take a coherent approach to the many challenges that exist to protect the environment, prosperity and trade, as well as people's living conditions and the ability to secure their income. Defence and security policy is an important component in this context. Russia has also acted increasingly recklessly in recent years. Disruptions of the GPS system in North Calotte constitute an example of serious risks to civil aviation in particular. Madam President, I would like In a new geopolitical landscape that clearly sets its mark on the Arctic, important questions about political leadership and cohesion are raised. First of all, Sweden needs to show a greater interest and commitment in our northern neighbourhood when there is now an increase in the importance of defence and security policy given the economic and military interests of other actors. It involves more cooperation and more resources, not least with regard to defence. Sweden must be able to take a more long-term and strategic approach, protect links with our neighbours and with the USA and Canada, and realise that the situation in the Arctic today is quite different from the previous one. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, let me express my satisfaction that the Government chose to present a letter on the Arctic on the table of Parliament. We were, of course, a few parties who expressed this wish at an early stage, which is now fulfilled. And it is good that the Foreign Minister himself in place with his presence in the debate marks the importance and weight of the Arctic for us in Sweden. It may not be my role as an opposition representative to commend the government, Madam President, but when that can happen—it is not too often—it is, of course, welcome. In conclusion, Madam President, warming in the Arctic is higher than the global average and has a clear impact on peace, security and prosperity. It is clear that Sweden, as both an Arctic state and Baltic Sea State, is in an uncertain neighbourhood that is strongly influenced by major power interests and by Russian aggression and influence. With this, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1112	Madam President, I would like To a large extent, world politics today is characterised by an increasing competition of great power with new tensions and a series of new conflicts. In such a situation, we must give priority to good relations and cooperation with friendly countries in our neighbourhood, not least with a view to promoting good stability. The Swedish Democrats strongly believe that the Government's Arctic Strategy does not address the security risks that exist in the Arctic to a sufficient extent. We believe that these risks are and will remain significant, so there is no room for naivety on this issue. As you know, the extensive disarmament that has taken place in the past is not entirely unproblematic. With our geographical location between NATO and Russia, there are significant risks of serious security policy consequences, which is why it is extremely important to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces' Arctic and subarctic capabilities as soon as possible so that we regain as soon as possible the skills we have previously had to operate in this area. One of the countries that many people are talking about today as a security threat is, not surprisingly, China. China is by nature not a member of the Arctic Council, but nevertheless has an observer status. We firmly believe that this is problematic. Apart from the fact that China may not even meet the requirements for being an observer in the Arctic Council, Sweden, together with like-minded people, must counter excessive Chinese influence on these issues. There is no doubt whatsoever that their interest in this region is enormous. Madam President, I would like Another issue that largely characterises world politics today is the ongoing climate change. This is a global problem that we cannot and should not deal with nationally. This is simply something that the international community must tackle jointly, so that the stability of the Arctic must be ensured and a common ground for all the parties involved in the region established. The Arctic environment is unique and the biodiversity of animals and nature must be preserved for future generations. For this reason, we must also create procedures and capacities to protect culture and nature of high levels of protection. Cultural and natural remains of high safety values must therefore also be identified, and preparedness to deal with possible accidents and emissions must be put into place. A long-term environmental approach combined with the future economic activity of the region, including the extraction of natural resources, must be pursued. Extraction must be as environmentally safe as it is possible. The Government intends to support the work of a Pan-Arctic network of marine protected areas within the framework of the Arctic Council. The government says it wants to promote a global target of 30 percent area protection of marine environments. We naturally support the protection of marine environments, but at the same time we are doubtful about the kind of flat-rate protection that 30% indicates. The important thing is to protect the important functions, such as reproductive areas. Madam President, I would like As the Arctic ice melts, we see a long series of changes that we must already be prepared for. A number of trade routes, such as the Northwest Passage, the North East Passage and the polar route, are becoming more accessible, so the trade potential in the area is increasing significantly. We believe that the Government's Arctic Strategy clearly lacks an approach involving trade and natural resources. Among other things, consideration needs to be given to future icebreaker needs, which is why icebreaker capacity needs to be strengthened and trade opportunities generally recognised. Madam President, I would like Nor can we debate the Arctic Strategy or the future of the Arctic region without addressing the basic rights of indigenous peoples. The indigenous peoples of the Arctic consist of several peoples in the Arctic region, where the Sami are the people living in the Swedish Arctic regions. These peoples have a unique cultural heritage that has evolved over millennia, and they have been characterised by the specific environmental conditions that exist in the Arctic. Their cultural heritage needs to be protected throughout the Arctic. There must be no doubt about that. It should not have to be said, but the indigenous peoples must, of course, enjoy the same opportunities and rights as the other peoples of the Arctic, and there must under no circumstances be any discriminatory special legislation between different communities. The indigenous peoples of the Arctic and the peoples of the Arctic region should be able to operate freely and without interference, and indigenous heritage needs to be protected throughout the Arctic. Madam President, I would like Last but not least: Swedish foreign policy must be based on and focus on Swedish interests. Development in the Arctic is a clear example of an area that definitely affects Sweden now and in the future, so there must be a well-developed Swedish strategy regarding which issues should be prioritised in the Arctic and why these particular issues should be prioritised. Having said that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2, but of course I support all the SD reservations in the report.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1126	Madam President, I would like At the outset of my speech, I would like to support reservation 3 in paragraph 1. The situation in the Arctic is changing. For various reasons, the Arctic is becoming increasingly important from an environmental, climate, trade and security perspective. It is important in terms of security policy because new trade routes are opening up, and major powers in our vicinity are becoming increasingly interested in clearly and in some cases also aggressively asserting their spheres of power in the Arctic region. From the climate point of view, this is important because Arctic ecosystems are crucial for wider ecosystems and for climate conditions in the rest of Europe and in other parts of the world. From a biodiversity point of view, this is important because climate change and the increased interest in exploiting oil and gas resources threaten important ecosystems and marine resources. If we upset life conditions, these ecosystems will probably have very poor conditions to maintain. In all of this, Sweden has an extremely important role as an Arctic country, both as a country that wants to protect sustainability issues and has a strong profile in protecting peace, cooperation and the liberal world order and because Sweden has a unique role as a Nordic country. We work long and closely with our Nordic and Arctic neighbours. It is therefore welcome that the government is now clarifying a strategy for Sweden's Arctic policy. It's not a day too late. There are some things that leave room for improvement. It is clear that Sweden, both as an Arctic state and as an Baltic state, is in an uncertain neighbourhood that is strongly influenced by the interests of great power and by Russian aggression and influence. A more active Swedish Arctic policy and a new strategic approach to the geopolitical challenges in the region are needed. They include, in addition to increased Russian military activity, increasingly tangible Chinese ambitions of power and the negative consequences of climate change for peace and security. Like both the Government and the Defence Committee, we believe that there is a need for an increased military presence in the northern parts of Sweden. However, unlike the government, which in terms of Sweden's international cooperation is content to strive for a further development and deepening of the Arctic focus, we believe that the uncertain development also highlights the need for Sweden to deepen cooperation with our neighbours and with NATO countries and to seek NATO membership, preferably together with Finland. With regard to Russian military activity in the region, we note that the state of play provided by the Government in the Arctic Strategy only links Russia's part in the ongoing arms race to its territorial claims without seeing the bigger picture, which also includes Russian power projection. In this assessment, the government also deviates from the Defence Committee, which points out in Värnkraft that Russia perceives itself as having national interests in the region, that Russia has expressed an ambition to control shipping through the Northeast Passage – in this context it is interesting to note that an icebreaker and a cargo ship went through the North East Passage just a few weeks ago – and that the country is trying to create opportunities for power projection from the area. In addition, Russian representatives have problematized and relativised Norway's sovereignty over Svalbard. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party believe that it should be made clear that Russia not only has a claim to defend Russian territory in the Arctic but that it also seeks to expand its interests, which is consequently a security policy threat to us and to our Arctic neighbours. Furthermore, like Mr Wallmark, we think that the protection of Atlantic connections is part of the coherent approach that Swedish Arctic policy needs to take over the challenges of the region. The security policy challenges we face in the north raise important questions about how we protect and protect the Atlantic connections that are crucial to Sweden's prosperity in the event of increased tensions. It is also about maintaining the freedom of navigation and also the protection of the many Atlantic cables connecting our continent with the American one. Madam President, I would like Let me leave the security policy challenges and the security policy aspects of the Arctic Strategy. There is room for improvement also in the environmental and climate aspects of the strategy. As has been said, we see increased vulnerability in particular to the marine ecosystems in the Arctic when the ice sheet is withdrawn, the sea warms up and habitats change. It is worth knowing that climate change is particularly strong in the Arctic region and that marine ecosystems are particularly vulnerable. It is a vulnerability that increases as interest in exploiting oil and gas resources in marine environments in the Arctic increases. We have an already vulnerable marine ecosystem that is stressed by climate change and then in turn subjected to additional pressures due to oil and gas extraction. Then we have a recipe for an ecological disaster in the Arctic. Here in Sweden we have a special responsibility with our clear sustainability profile to put these issues on the agenda and also to clarify what needs to be done. Unfortunately, I believe that the government is in danger of landing wrong in its Arctic strategy. Green infrastructure is being emphasised in this context. Green infrastructure is a theory based on exploited areas and is about creating green corridors or green links between species and habitats in areas that are mainly exploited. That is exactly the opposite of what we have in the Arctic, and it is also the opposite of what we want to see in the Arctic. I do not think that this is in any way about malice, but I think that you shoot yourself in the foot and risk opening a door to a rather dangerous situation if you go in with the attempt to create green and blue infrastructure in the Arctic. What is needed is a strong and comprehensive protection of ecosystems when the ice cover withdraws, not least for vulnerable marine ecosystems in the Arctic. What the government should rather emphasise is not green infrastructure but a comprehensive protection of Arctic ecosystems. With this, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that, although we have an Arctic region in transition which is, if necessary, also exposed to a number of threats which are increasing and exacerbating each other, there are also opportunities in the Arctic region. It's a matter of not losing them. It is about opportunities for those living in the Arctic to have a richer life. It is also about opportunities to protect and preserve some of our most vulnerable yet most viable, beautiful and multifaceted ecosystems. If we meet this challenge, Madam President, I think we have a bright future for the Arctic. It is my hope that this Arctic Strategy and future Arctic strategies will contribute to this.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1143	Madam President, I would like Today, the threats to the Arctic are more serious than ever before. In few other parts of the world, climate change has had such an extensive and dramatic impact on plant life, animals and humans. In the wake of climate change, new challenges arise. As the ice melts, extraction of the natural resources of the Arctic is possible, and new transport routes are opened up through the northeast and northwest passages. This means both new threats to the environment and an increased risk of security policy tensions in the region. Future activities in the Arctic should be based on the precautionary principle and be based on respect for people, nature and the planet's borders. The Arctic region is a clear example of what happens when mankind cries for much and consumes as if you had four globes to wander around. The Arctic is facing major changes. The increase in global temperature is particularly evident in the polar regions. The warming in the Arctic is rising to five times as fast as anywhere else in the world. The temperature increase and extreme heat produced something as unusual as large forest fires in Siberia last summer. A million acres of forest burned, and temperatures of up to 45 degrees Fahrenheit [45 ° C.] were measured. Last winter we could see pictures from the same area, where peat fires continued despite the Siberian cold and despite the metre-deep snow. As we move towards a new summer, we can only imagine what happens when the fires have not even passed out. The increase in temperature also reduces ice. The ice is currently at a very low level. The last four years have been some of the years with the lowest levels. In 25 years' time, scientists believe that the sea ice will no longer be found in the summer, and by 2070 it is estimated that the last sea ice has melted away. Many climate scientists see it as one of the tipping points of the earth when the ice melts within the region, especially in Greenland. When we reach a tipping point, new physical reactions are set in motion. Earth's current pattern is changing, and it will be impossible for us to back down. It will mean increased sea level but also the risk of the entire Gulf Stream being slowed down. Thousands of tons of ice melt from the Greenlandic ice every second, and we share all the fresh water that then emerges between all the people on earth, we get a bathtub full a day. The Government's Arctic Strategy mentions the Paris Agreement several times. The achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement is crucial for keeping the climate and the environment in the Arctic at a level that does not get us past this tipping point. Today, Sweden or any other country does not have a policy that allows us to fall even within the two-degree target. When we talk about the Arctic strategy, it is important that we understand this and put what is happening there in connection with the decisions we take for our other society. The Arctic region, if any, is the region that is taking the fall for our society's overconsumption and our huge emissions of fossil fuels. In the Arctic strategy, there are a number of things that we need to do to protect and develop the Arctic in different ways. But the Arctic crisis does not solve itself in a strategy for that region alone; to solve it requires a transformation of society into a life entirely within the framework of nature. This is also important. The resources and raw materials coming from the region are not used only in the region. The consequences of using the raw material, especially fossil fuels, are also becoming an increasingly inhospitable climate for those living there. In Sweden, the Sami have a special status as indigenous peoples, but we have not yet ratified the ILO 169. This is mainly due to the fact that Article 14 of the Convention on the Rights of the Land and on the Rights of the Sami to Land and Water has not yet been resolved. The UN Human Rights Council has noted that Sweden supports the indigenous declaration but that Sweden does not apply the rights it contains. Sweden was recommended to implement the declaration and establish the mechanisms for this in cooperation with the Sami people. The UN has also repeatedly criticised Sweden for its shortcomings in the influence of the Sami people, in particular the lack of free and informed prior consent, FPIC. During the winter, voices have also been raised for Sweden's continued exploitation of natural forests in the northern parts of the country within the Arctic region and, above all, for areas that are important reindeer pastures. As natural forests continue to be exploited, the Sami's space for reindeer husbandry is reduced. The lack of coherent forests to move in, and the lack of hangings to feed, along with escalating climate change, make it more difficult to move in these lands. State-owned Sveaskog, the largest landowner, has an obligation to consult on planned fellings. That's good. But when Sveaskog cannot or does not want to fell in such an area due to conflicts, they can instead choose to sell the land, because when they sell, they do not need consultation. This was highlighted in an article in the DN last week. This time Luokta-Máva-Mávas was the samebyn concerned. Within their area, Sveaskog wanted to harvest as much as 700 hectares, and this in an already hard-working area. One of the reindeer keepers interviewed witnessed how he one day came to an area in the forest just to find that it was no longer there. The new forest owner, to whom Sveaskog sold, does not have the same obligation to consult. Today, Sweden can easily go around its obligations and ignore the rights of the Sami people. The consultation needs to be strengthened, and when we decide on activities within the region, we need to take into account more interests than the economic ones. In terms of reindeer husbandry, nature tourism, social values, biodiversity and climate, consideration needs to be considerably increased. In addition, Sweden needs to ratify ILO 169 once and for all. As the ice melts, new opportunities are opening up, and the interests of businesses and countries in accessing and exploiting these areas are increasing. Fossil resources that have long been impossible to access are now becoming fully accessible. It is estimated that one third of the world's undetected natural gas reserves and just over 10% of the world's oil reserves are in the Arctic region. Norway, for example, continues to develop its oil industry. In the latest allocation, the Norwegian Government granted licenses in the sea area around Lofoten. Large oil companies have also shown great interest in starting drilling for oil here, as have countries such as China, which have been mentioned earlier in the debate. The world has already raised more oil than we can afford to spend if we are to have a chance in heaven to reach the Paris Agreement. Every government in the Arctic region should have a phasing-out target and urgently come down to zero as one of its top climate targets for both the Arctic and for the rest of society. In the climate crisis we are in today, it is totally unreasonable to release mining activities on the seabed. A new report from the WWF, which came a few weeks ago, shows the enormous risks of mineral mining on the seabed and that there is far too little knowledge of deep seas to say what consequences such an activity could have. An economic estimate shows that the value of the deep sea amounts to between 17 and 168 billion. These are small potatoes compared to the overall marine economy, which amounts to 20 trillion. Since we know little about the effects mining may have, it is extremely difficult to create regulations to reduce risks – what risks? In parts of Australia, after a decade of bans, a decision has now been taken to introduce a moratorium on mining on the seabed. When you made that decision, the Minister for the Environment said there that you did it to protect nature but also the jobs that depend on it. The Left Party believes that the precautionary principle must take precedence and that Sweden should therefore press for the introduction of a moratorium on deep sea mining in negotiations on the Convention on the Law of the Sea. To put an end to climate change in time, we need to fundamentally change our transport system. One of the most important contributions is to move freight and passenger transport from road and air to rail and shipping. The Left Party therefore wants to see an initiative for effective cooperation with Norway and Finland to link the Nordic parts of the Arctic. Madam President, I would like When we talk about the Arctic region, it is important to see its diversity. It is not a homogeneous region, but the whole region is hardest hit by the climate crisis. We must not leave the Arctic and Arctic issues just for occasions like this. How the region will continue to develop will be closely linked to how we as a society choose to deal with the climate crisis and how quickly the transition can really get started.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1166	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservation number 1. The letter Strategy for the Arctic region that we are dealing with today raises a serious geopolitical challenge in Sweden's immediate neighbourhood. The Christian Democrats therefore welcome the proposal for a strategy to deal with these developments. The objective that Sweden should work towards peaceful, stable and environmentally sustainable development in the Arctic is urgent and, in substance, quite right. There is no doubt that climate change and the warming of the Arctic also have consequences for peace and security. Both for Sweden and for other countries in the Arctic region, the interests and interference of the major powers lead to uncertainty and instability. Despite the successful work of the Arctic Council as a multilateral forum since its creation in 1996, it is clear that a new development and new problems need to be addressed, problems associated with declared claims for power from Russia and from the People's Republic of China. Madam President, I would like With more than half of the Arctic coast within its borders, Russia is the largest Arctic country. The fact that Moscow has legitimate Arctic interests is undisputed, but the restrictions imposed by Russia alone on the passage between the Norwegian Sea and the North Atlantic are contrary to international conventions. In parallel, there is a strong military rearmament going on from the Russian side. With more military bases in the Arctic, four new Arctic brigades, new airfields, missile bases and deep sea ports, these developments are extremely worrying. In recent years China has also claimed the Arctic sea passage and the Arctic's extensive natural resources. In 2018, the Communist regime in Beijing declared that China is what they call a, near Arctic state, which they believe justifies the country's participation in the development of the Arctic. The fact that everyone who looks at the map sees that China is outside the Arctic region and therefore lacks territorial rights does not prevent Chinese action from being taken seriously. In recent years, China has increased investment and presence in the Arctic in diplomacy, research and also mining. Madam President, I would like Against this background, an active Swedish Arctic policy is needed. This includes a new strategic approach to the geopolitical challenges but also increased military presence in the northern parts of our country. Sweden needs a significantly stronger defence that can both act as a war-resistant and contribute to stability in an uncertain neighbourhood. Unlike the government, the Christian Democrats in this context want to highlight the importance of deeper transatlantic engagement and full Swedish membership of NATO. There is no doubt that more cooperation is needed both in security policy and in military terms in order to respond to the serious developments we are seeing. The fact that Sweden, preferably together with Finland, joins NATO would strengthen our own capabilities and contribute to both clarity and increased security. As regards Russia's part of the ongoing Arctic arms race, it is notable that the government's strategy only links it to its territorial claims. The truth is that Vladimir Putin and his regime are also looking to expand their own influence economically, geopolitically and militarily. Without seeing and highlighting that perspective, there is a clear risk that the security threat both to our country and to our Arctic neighbours will be underestimated. Madam President, I would like Despite security concerns and major power interference, the Arctic is a region of opportunities with oil, gas and rare minerals that can, for example, be used as components of modern technology, with fish stocks that are crucial for global food security and opening up new, faster and cheaper shipping routes between Europe and the US when sea ice melts. At the same time, and this is important, it is everyone's responsibility to act so that the warming of the Arctic is limited in accordance with the Paris Agreement. Unique environmental values, biodiversity and marine ecosystems must be preserved for the future. The importance of peace, security and sustainable development in the Arctic region is crucial. Whether it be economic, research or security policy, Swedish Arctic policy must aim at preserving transparency and cooperation. That this work takes place in close dialogue with and respect for the indigenous peoples of the region must always be emphasised and emphasised. With this, Madam President, I therefore support the joint reservation of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1179	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. To enter the Foreign Affairs Committee as a new member of Parliament is a favor and an inexhaustible source of new knowledge about the whole world and its inhabitants. Being able to monitor the Arctic in this work is really exciting and fun. Never, Madam President, have I heard so much about the Arctic in the media, in politics or in public opinion as at present. The Arctic seems to be on everyone's lips, and that is because, as we have heard this evening, it is mainly due to the climate challenges and the increased military tension we are seeing now. Only in recent weeks have several articles been published in Swedish, Nordic and international media. Last week came the news of another alarming report on the Gulf Stream. As you know, the Gulf Stream is the ocean current that determines the living conditions for us in the Nordic countries, and it is slowing down. According to new research, the Gulf Stream has already slowed down by up to 20 percent, and the cause is global warming. Today, the Gulf Stream is weaker than it has been in 1,600 years, and researchers at the German Potsdam Institute for Climate Research have warned that before the end of the century the current could be weakened by up to 45 percent. The warming in the Arctic makes the ocean currents more difficult to cool down, which makes it more difficult for the water to sink down and turn back south. The ocean stream is also slowed down because salt water is mixed with fresh water. This is partly due to increased rainfall, partly due to the acceleration of melting ice in Greenland and the Arctic. Madam President, I would like Without the Gulf Stream, the temperature would drop by 5-10 degrees in the Nordic region. This would mean temperatures down to minus 50 degrees in parts of Sweden as well as more winter storms and drier summers. It's not just the Gulf Stream that's a concern. Our emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases also result in melting ices and declining permafrost. In parts of the Arctic and Siberia the temperature has already risen on average 3 degrees, and in smaller areas up to 6 degrees. The time when the North Pole is expected to be ice-free in high summer has been brought forward several times by the researchers. The Arctic is therefore a very important region, and it is essential that there is a sustainable and long-term strategy that is also based on Agenda 2030. Madam President, I would like Climate change is also on the way to making the Arctic and thus Sweden a highly interesting military area. The melting ice itself has created upbuilding. A new sea, five times the size of the Mediterranean Sea, is opening up, and there is both money and power to win. As the ice melts, new fairways and more available natural resources are also opening up, increasing competition between the major powers. The Arctic has long been described as a low-voltage area of security policy characterised by constructive international cooperation. That's how we want to keep it. However, climate change in the Arctic has contributed to an increased international interest in the region, and tensions are increasing. There'll be a new military dynamic when the ice melts. As we have heard before, 50% of the Arctic land is Russian, and this means that Russia has a very long coast to the Arctic Ocean. The ice has been a kind of natural barrier to Russia, and when the ice melts, it contributes to Russia experiencing a greater threat. That is why close and well-functioning cooperation that we have in the Arctic Council is even more important. Madam President, I would like Sweden will work to ensure that international law, including the law of the sea, is respected in the region. We want to promote the preservation of biodiversity in accordance with the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the implementation of a non-toxic circular economy. We will also work towards long-term and sustainable management of wetlands and marine ecosystems. We support the strengthening of the military presence and capability in the northern parts of Sweden and note that the Paris Agreement's objective to limit the global temperature increase is crucial for the future of the Arctic region. One of the government's overall objectives will continue to be that the Arctic should be characterised by peace, security and stability. Madam President, I would like Sweden also wants to act for sustainable economic development in the Arctic based on Agenda 2030. Natural resources are an important element, but at the same time we must be a driving force in international cooperation to protect the unique environment and minimise the negative effects and risks of the exploitation of natural resources in the region. Sweden will therefore work to take joint initiatives in the EU, the OECD and the Arctic Council to contribute at global level to the sustainable extraction of ore and minerals. The government's position is also that the extraction of minerals from the deep sea, including the Arctic, should not take place until the effects on the marine environment, biodiversity and human activities have been sufficiently scientifically described. Sustainable transport and communications are also crucial for economic growth and development. The long distances in the Arctic region, including Arctic Sweden, place high demands on a well-functioning transport system for people and goods. The European Commission's proposal that the TEN-T Core Network Corridor Scan-Med-Med be extended through Sweden to Narvik and Oulu is good because increased mobility between Sweden and our neighbours is positive and good for Sweden. A sustainable tourism and tourism industry, a robust infrastructure – physical and digital – and, not least, a gender perspective are also important in this context. Madam President, I would like There are several indigenous peoples in the Arctic region. Sweden will promote increased opportunities for indigenous peoples in the Arctic to preserve and develop their identity, culture and traditional industries. Therefore, we will also work for a vibrant Sami culture based on long-term sustainable reindeer nutrition and other Sami industries. Sweden will promote the preservation of the Sami language and other Arctic indigenous languages. Indigenous peoples and other groups in the Arctic region that have a traditional lifestyle or feed on reindeer husbandry, hunting, fishing and crafts are particularly vulnerable to environmental change and depend on a high level of biodiversity and intact ecosystems. It is therefore particularly important that indigenous peoples should also be able to participate actively in decisions concerning them, for example in the Arctic Council. We must constantly be involved in ensuring that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are promoted in all international cooperation on Arctic-related issues. We must ensure that we have meaningful participation in the issues of all the interest groups. In Sweden the Sami have a special position as an indigenous people. It is laid down in the Constitution that the Sami people's ability to maintain and develop their own cultural and community life should be promoted. Sweden's ratification of the Unesco Convention on the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage has also provided greater legal protection for Sami culture. I'm glad. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1195	Madam President, I would like I'll be relatively brief. There was one thing in Mrs Laitinen Carlsson's speech in particular that moved me to the Parliament bench, namely the description of the security policy situation in the Arctic region. I have to hear whether the analysis of the present situation by the Member and the Social Democrats and the reality of the situation differs significantly from that of the Defence Committee, my own and the Center Party. The honourable Member reports that the melting of ice along the Russian coast of the Arctic Ocean leads to – let it be – some form of increased threat to the Russian coast, that Russia may even have reason to perceive itself threatened there. When I try to take stock of the situation in the Arctic from the perspective of security policy, the big trend I see is not that other countries are operating along the Russian coast towards the Arctic Ocean. On the contrary, it is Russia that operates with capability outside Svalbard and west towards the Atlantic. They clearly indicate that they are there and practice with weapons systems that have reach and can operate into the Gulf of Bothnia and far south into Swedish territory. This is what I and, if I have not misunderstood the matter, the Defense Committee perceives as the great change. It dimensiones the threat picture and builds up the rather uncertain situation in the area around the Arctic, not least in the Swedish neighbourhood. I would like a clarification from Mrs Laitinen Carlsson on what she sees as I do not see.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1200	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ek, for the question. Magnus Ek has been with me longer than I have and is clearly much more familiar with these issues. It's actually a statement I've taken from an interview with Ann Linde. I think that when the ice melts, it becomes more open to other countries too to risk in those waters, and therefore Russia sees it as a threat when the ice melts. There'll be more activity. As I also said in my speech, there are also more people who want the natural resources that are there. It's from that point of view that I think that way.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1203	Madam President, I would like It is quite true that the melting of ice means that trade routes that have not been navigable for at least large parts of the year become navigable. I referred to that in my own speech. But a fundamental basis there must be that those trade routes are open. Usually merchant ships moving in an area are not seen as threats to a country. It is clear that this brings new challenges and new concerns. Not least, with the melting of ice, the thirst for oil and gas extraction in the Arctic poses new threats. Not only I, but also other Members, have referred to this in the debate. However, I do not quite understand the link to the fact that it would be particularly threatening to Russia and, above all, not why we should describe it that way. I honestly don't think it's true or it needs to be true. It may be that I may come back with further lines after the Foreign Minister's speech to clarify it, if that is where the statement comes from.
i-TcVfwQfz8fRoVA2EJnVrhK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Magnus Ek! I do not think it is trade that is a concern at this stage. Nor can I swear that the Secretary of State has not been misquoted. I think there will be increased activity from the other major powers in the area when the ice melts. Therefore, the melting of ice can be perceived as a threat.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1209	Madam President, I would like I understand that it is not encouraged to use observation material in the speaker's chair, but in this case I would have liked us to have been able to roll down a gigantic map. It would have been easier. Now it is possible that a certain former party leader somewhere in the area of Rome is delighted that during this debate we are conducting some kind of blind-card test in real time. The Government's letter on the Arctic Strategy covers six thematic areas. I intend to stay at two of these: security and stability, climate and environment. Activity in the area is increasing, mainly due to climate change. Climate change and melting ice make the Arctic natural resources and fairways available. This, in turn, means that China and Russia are moving forward their geopolitical and military positions in the region. Together, it has a major impact on the environment, biodiversity and the security situation. FOI stated in a report in 2019 that developments in the Arctic are following the changes we have seen in recent decades. The optimism of globalisation and the relaxation of tension between the major powers have given way to increased focus on great power competition and weakening of multilateral institutions. Sweden should work in every way to ensure that this does not have a greater impact on the Arctic. Madam President, I would like For Russia, ensuring military and civil security, shipping and energy extraction is a priority. These three parts interact in the Arctic. Murmansk is home port for most of Russia's strategic submarines. It is these submarines that guarantee the Russian second-class capability. If Russia is attacked by a nuclear nation, then it is these submarines that allow Russia to be able of four back. This means that Murmansk and the surrounding area are crucial to Russia's security situation. Without those submarines, they don't consider themselves equal to the United States. Note also that Murmansk, with its 450 000 inhabitants, is the largest city north of the Arctic Circle. Rosneft is the second largest oil company in the world. Their northern Vostok Oil Arctic project is estimated to be able to extract 2 million barrels per day. Further purchases of oil fields in the Russian Arctic are under way. At present, Russian dependence on gas and oil cannot be exaggerated in order to keep the Russian economy and therefore the Russian regime going. Madam President, I would like As far as the second superpower, China, is concerned, it has also increased its interest in the Arctic and its natural resources, in line with its increased economic strength. China defines itself as a near Arctic power. It appears that China's motives are primarily economic. But there are signs that China has intentions to act in the same way in the Arctic as has been done in African countries. To the Chinese big venture Belt and Road Initiative, it has also been added an Arctic part, The Polar Silk Road. In line with China's ambition to become a maritime superpower, efforts are made along the Northeast Passage. It could shorten transport times between Asia and Europe while reducing Chinese dependence on the Malacca Strait as a transport route. Madam President, I would like What is the significance of this for Sweden? Consider an example. Russia is armed militarily to gain control of the Northeast Passage, which stretches from the Bering Strait and across the North Cape towards the Greenlandic coast. This can affect cable traffic and fairways in the Atlantic. Transport to the Swedish west coast and passage to the Baltic Sea can also be affected by a sharp conflict between major powers. This development affects Swedish security. As much as 70 – 90 per cent of Sweden's imports of fuel, supplies and medicine go through Gothenburg harbours. Liberals note that there is a great need for de-stress and demilitarisation of the Arctic. This is clear from the Government's letter. Not surprisingly, the Liberals find it positive that the strategy highlights the importance of the EU taking a more active role in the Arctic. Madam President, I would like The reason why the Northeast Passage is accessible and thus creates a security policy opportunity for Russia and a threat for the rest of us is precisely climate change and global warming. Here we see very concrete examples of the consequences of climate change. It is of the utmost importance to stop further warming. However important the security policy part of the Arctic is for our country's future security and freedom, climate change is also essential for the planet's survival. For the sake of the climate, we need to be very restrictive about oil and gas extraction in the Arctic. As few other areas, the Arctic shows how important it is to stop global warming and what consequences it will have for people, animals, biodiversity and human safety if we do not succeed.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1224	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Government's strategy for the Arctic. It is important that there is an updated strategy and that it puts climate, peace and people at the centre. I was going to say a few words about those areas. The government is clear that the climate cannot wait. In the Paris Agreement we have agreed that the earth's temperature should not increase by more than 2 degrees, preferably not more than 11⁄2 degrees. Now the projections look bleak if we don't reset faster. Knowing that the Arctic region is warming up twice as fast, everyone understands the importance of a strong focus on climate in this strategy. The strategy mentions three areas: reducing global emissions of climate gases; preserving biodiversity in the Arctic, including marine environments; and creating a global non-toxic circular economy. What becomes apparent is that efforts for the Arctic must be made worldwide, not just north of the Arctic Circle. The whole world needs to reduce emissions and turn into a non-toxic circular economy. The preservation of biodiversity also needs to take place everywhere, and specifically in the Arctic, adequate protection of biodiversity and sensitive areas with high natural and cultural values is needed. Madam President, I would like Sweden will contribute to stable, peaceful and sustainable development in the region. The security situation in the Arctic is also of great importance for Sweden's security. It is therefore important to have well-functioning international cooperation and to continue and strengthen dialogue with the Arctic and non-Arctic actors in the region. A rule-based world order is the basis for dealing with common threats to humanity, such as war or environmental degradation. In areas not previously exploited, international conventions such as the Convention on the Law of the Sea are important for regulating the exploitation and use of common resources. Madam President, I would like The Arctic Strategy also focuses on the people living in the Arctic. The whole Arctic region is fundamentally changing as a result of climate change, and it is fast. The urgent cessation of greenhouse gas emissions is crucial for everyone living in and in the Arctic. Indigenous peoples and other groups living in the Arctic nature see climate change in their everyday lives, and the strategy highlights in particular that the knowledge of the local population and indigenous peoples should be exploited. The strategy encourages the exchange of knowledge between researchers and indigenous peoples in order to make traditional knowledge and scientific research available. The climate change that is going on and will continue for a long time is destroying the nature of the Arctic as it stands today and the living conditions of the peoples who live there today. Increased exploitation of the Arctic will also have a serious impact on the environment for people living there if it is done without consideration. Extraction of oil and gas at sea is particularly sensitive in the Arctic as the risks associated with this are very high. It is therefore important that fossil fuels are phased out as soon as possible in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This is important, especially for the indigenous peoples. Indigenous peoples outside North America are at risk of being hit harder because they do not have quite as strong rights as indigenous peoples in North America, for example. Steps along the way for us in Sweden to strengthen indigenous peoples' rights is to decide on a consultation system for Sami issues, to join the ILO Convention 169 on indigenous peoples and tribal peoples and after many years of work go to the goal of the Nordic Sami Convention. The principles of other UN rights declarations are also to be applied to indigenous peoples when competition for resources in the Arctic is increasing due to climate change. Sweden therefore needs to move forward on these issues in our part of the Arctic so that we can fully assert the rights of the Arctic indigenous peoples. The strategy includes the goal that Sweden should promote increased opportunities for indigenous peoples to preserve and develop their culture, and the language work is highlighted in particular. Of course, there are also other important issues for people living in the Arctic. For example, digitalisation is mentioned, which is important for business and healthcare. There is a clear focus on gender equality and also on young people living in the Arctic. Throughout the strategy, it is clear that it ties in with the global goals of Agenda 2030, which we all have a responsibility to work towards. Madam President, I would like With these words on the Arctic strategy's focus on climate, peace and people, I urge that the motions be rejected and that the letter be added to the documents.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1238	Madam President, I would like There is a great interest in Sweden's work in the Arctic. I see this in the contacts I have had with young people, with civil society and with other governments in the region and in the European Union. At the end of last year, I had the opportunity to present Sweden's Arctic Strategy to a broad international audience, when Iceland's former President Grímsson invited to an Arctic Circle Forum, only about our Arctic policy. This was an opportunity to showcase Sweden as a credible player in the Arctic and an important part of the Arctic region. On 29 September last year, the Government's letter on Sweden's strategy for the Arctic region was submitted to the Riksdag. The starting point for the strategy is Sweden's role as one of eight Arctic countries. We thus have a special role and responsibility for the region. The strategy reflects a strengthened Swedish commitment to the Arctic. It has a broad approach and indicates the government's direction for Sweden's contribution to promoting peaceful, stable and sustainable development in the Arctic, on the basis of international law. The government's overall priorities in the Arctic can be summarised as human beings, peace and the environment. The government's new strategy is based on a changing Arctic. We are seeing an accelerated pace of climate change, and the security situation in the region has deteriorated. Sweden must relate to this development. At the same time, the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030 are a welcome strengthening of the Arctic framework. In the strategy, the Government stresses the importance of effective international cooperation in the Arctic, with respect for international law as a basis. Effective cooperation is both an objective and a means. Cooperation builds trust. It is also necessary to address the cross-border challenges facing the region. The international legal framework for the Arctic is in place. International law applies. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclo) is the central legal framework for the maritime area. It is complemented by the Polar Code and a number of regional and bilateral agreements. In the important 2008 Ilulissat Declaration, Arctic coastal states reaffirm their commitment to resolving any overlapping Arctic claims within Unclo. There are also important and functioning institutions that create the conditions for cooperation between states. The government attaches great importance to the Arctic Council as the central forum in the Region. The Council plays a confidence-building role. At the Foreign Minister's meeting in May next year, the 25th anniversary of the Council is celebrated. The government also wants there to be an opportunity to ensure that the Arctic Council is well equipped for future challenges. Sweden's two-state policy on Russia covers the Arctic. In June, Russia will take over as Chairman of the Arctic Council. We will continue to cooperate with Russia within that framework. It benefits the development of the Arctic as well as our security and stability in the neighbourhood. We will continue to have a clear approach in principle to Russia's violations of international law, which the government has repeatedly criticised. At my meeting with Russia's Foreign Minister Lavrov a few weeks ago, we talked at length about the Arctic Council. Increased cooperation with actors outside the Arctic is becoming increasingly important in addressing cross-border challenges in the region. The special role of the eight Arctic countries should be preserved, but the government welcomes and encourages the positive involvement of all interested actors. At the same time, we underline the need for everyone to respect international law and the established forums for cooperation. The government wants to see a stronger engagement of the EU in the Arctic. The EU is well placed to contribute to stable and sustainable development in the region. The EU's leading role in the climate area is crucial for the future of the Arctic. The Government supports the EU's request for observer status in the Arctic Council. The Arctic situation has long been described as a low-voltage area of security policy. This is a situation that we cannot take for granted. The geostrategic situation in the Arctic is complex. The Government describes in the strategy a combination of increased power competition at global level and climate change affecting the development of the region. Melting ice makes the region's natural resources and maritime routes more accessible. This has led to an increased international interest in the presence in the Arctic. The Government has a strategic and long-term approach to security policy developments in the Arctic. Our approach consists of two tracks: contributing to strengthened cooperation, dialogue and confidence building measures and strengthening national defence capabilities in the north too. At the same time, the general deterioration of relations between Western countries and Russia affects the security policy situation in the region. The importance of the Arctic's military strategy has increased as a result. The strategy shows that the government is concerned about Russia's military reconstruction, which is also taking place in the Arctic. The government's view is also reflected in the total defence bill for 2021 – 2025. This also applies to increased Russian activity at sea. NATO and its members have responded to developments through increased presence. The defence decision and before that the Defence Committee has established that the North Atlantic, the Arctic and the Baltic Sea are a strategic whole. The Government intends to seek to deepen Nordic and Euro-Atlantic security and defence cooperation within the framework of Sweden's security policy line. One example is the trilateral declaration of intent between Norway, Finland and Sweden. The transatlantic link is central. This is clearly stated in the defence decision's analysis of Sweden's military strategic situation. In the strategy, the government also points to the need for good security policy monitoring and knowledge building, including on potential hybrid threats in the region. China's global ambitions are also expressed in the Arctic. China's increasing presence represents both opportunities and challenges. The government is closely following China's increased interest in the extraction of natural resources, infrastructure investments and polar research. China's importance in the climate area is also important in an Arctic context. The military dimension of China's actions in the region is so far limited. It requires increased attention. This applies, in particular, to military cooperation between China and Russia and to a possible focus on the Arctic. Climate change is an existential threat to the Arctic. The effects of climate change are more alarming here than anywhere else on earth. Rapid climate change affects the Arctic ecosystems and local communities, which are adapted to a world of ice, cold and permafrost. The strategy reflects the Swedish government's ambitious climate and environmental policy. The implementation of the Paris Agreement is crucial to cushion temperature increases and reduce ice melting in the Arctic. Sweden will lead the way in promoting the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The strategy emphasises the Government's ambition and contributes to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in the Arctic. We will take an ambitious approach in the negotiations on BBNJ, the UN instruments for marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction, and the CBD, which is the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. They are both fundamental to the future of the Arctic. Madam President, I would like Arctic research is becoming increasingly important for understanding the global effects of climate change. The government will strengthen research in and about the Arctic and also emphasise the importance of enhanced international polar research cooperation. International interest in Arctic natural resources is increasing as the ice melts. The exploitation of minerals, oil, gas and fish poses a huge and additional challenge for the Arctic beyond climate change. Sweden will also act for long-term, sustainable economic development in the Arctic based on Agenda 2030 and taking particular account of the vulnerable environment. The government will work to ensure that economic activity benefits local economic growth. The strategy also stresses the importance of good living conditions for the 4 million people living in the Arctic, including indigenous peoples. Sustainable economic development is crucial for this. The government stresses the importance of a clear focus on young people and their prospects. Education, gender equality, robust infrastructure, including digital, are thus important. Sweden will work towards increased opportunities for indigenous peoples in the Arctic to preserve and develop their identity, culture and traditional livelihoods. The strategy also reflects the ambition to profile Sweden as an attractive, innovative and competitive Arctic country. Sustainable promotion in the Arctic, with Norrbotten and Västerbotten in the centre, will be based on the platform for international sustainable entrepreneurship and will contribute to the implementation of the Government's export and investment strategy. The major initiatives announced by industry and the urban transformation in Norrbotten and Västerbotten are also important for the implementation of the EU's green gift and for the transition to fossil-free in a global perspective. Madam President, I would like I conclude by saying that a prosperous Arctic region is part of our country's security and thus an important part of the government's foreign policy.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1262	Madam President, I would like I intend to dwell on the security policy dimensions. There are two forces around which several of the speakers have revolved: the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation. I myself will now concentrate on Russia, although China is also interesting. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions the Defence Committee and refers to it, and that is a source of pleasure to a member of the Defence Committee. I would like to raise a couple of issues with the Foreign Minister. I think it's important that we see Russian provocations. That is why I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give a slight deviation as to how the government views the Russian tone and tone of Svalbard. There is also good reason to say that the Arctic and the Baltic Sea region are communicating vessels precisely because there are Russian ambitions of power and a projection of power. Therefore, it would also be interesting to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs publish the government's text on how to view this particular relationship between the Arctic and the Baltic Sea. It is quite right that we want to see this as a low-voltage area. The same cannot be said of the Baltic Sea, where we see the Russian presence. The situation has also been strongly influenced by the deteriorating situation in Europe following the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the war being waged against Ukraine. It would be very interesting to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs publish the text on this. Finally, it was a rather interesting change of line just now. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view that quote quoted in this House about the melting of ice? Is it that Russia can perceive that there is a threat to them through the current ice melting? It is probably Russia that is a threat to the European security regime.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1268	Madam President, I would like In the case of Svalbard, the government makes no other assessment than the Defence Committee. Svalbard is Norwegian territory under the conditions laid down by the Svalbard Treaty. The government supports Norway politically in relation to the Russian question of the status quo of the international regulation of Svalbard. However, the Swedish aid does not necessarily mean that Sweden shares the Norwegian maritime law interpretations regarding the surrounding sea areas which are not explicitly covered by the Svalbardstractet. In the work on the Arctic Strategy, we have made a conscious choice not to include explicit text on various bilateral disputes, an issue that is topical also in other contexts right now. When it comes to the ice, it's not that strange. Russia's military action is an important factor because 50% of the Arctic land mass is made up of Russia. They have a very long coast towards the Arctic Ocean. The ice has been seen as a natural barrier to Russia. As the ice melts, Russia indicates an increased need to protect its coastline with a prominent military defence. Let us remember that the Russian military presence in the region was very high also during the Cold War, for purely military strategic reasons. This logic has now come back in line with the increasing geopolitical tensions. It is therefore no wonder that we are acting in such a way and nothing strange that NATO, the Western powers and Sweden are reacting to it. As far as the Baltic Sea is concerned, I will have to come back in the next shift of lines.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1274	Madam President, I would like From what the heart is full and so on, Minister of Foreign Affairs. That was a good answer about Svalbard. I think it is essential that we say this and stand up for our Norwegian friends. It's kind of like the freedom of navigation. We take it for granted, but that is not a matter of course. We see, for example, how the People's Republic of China provokes by emphasising the freedom of navigation in our waters but denying others the same right in their waters in the South China Sea. That is why this is crucial. Madam President, I would like Russia is trying to spread its narrative, sometimes repeated by parties at peace meetings and other things: that Russia is being threatened and being surrounded by NATO and the EU. However, NATO and the EU cannot surround themselves, because it is individual states that make their own independent security policy choices. But Russia is spreading this picture. Then it is important when you talk about ice melting and that Russia has 50 percent of the mass up there that you do not try to form a picture of that means that others can get closer to Russia. That's how Russia wants to describe it. In fact, Russia is projecting its power and its strength against others and using it, as has been done through the annexation of Crimea, as it does in the war in eastern Ukraine and as it does against Georgia. Therefore, it is essential to be clear that, as we strengthen our own defence capabilities and as NATO builds up its own capabilities, it is for the intended reason. Madam President, I would like It is important, then, to see the connection that I am now presenting to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Arctic and the Baltic Sea are the very vessels of communication and that it is Russia that is creating the threat.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1283	Madam President, I would like What is strange in your argument is that you are saying that we should not care how Russia views it. But that is precisely what we need to do in order to react to it. If Russia says that they have had a large barrier of ice and that they must protect themselves more now that it has disappeared, we are stating this, and the analysis means that we must strengthen both our defence and NATO's reaction back – and not just sit there with our arms crossed. But to say that they must not think or think so would be naive, because then we cannot answer what they are doing. This is what I do not understand in your argumentation, in this case and in many other cases. In the case of the Baltic Sea and the Arctic, Russia does not divide them into two different regions in its defence planning. We keep saying that we need to see a whole with regard to the North Calott and the entire Arctic area and not divide it up, because then it will be weakened and fragmented. We must see the Barents Sea, the North Calot, the Norwegian Sea and the North North Atlantic as much as our immediate area as the Baltic Sea.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1286	Madam President, I would like Last September the think tank Friends of Europe presented the report After the ice : the Arctic and European security. In connection with this, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg was interviewed who said that the paradox in the Arctic is that there is a tradition of cooperation while some of the most dangerous weapons in the world exist in the region. Stoltenberg noted that new threats and challenges were presented in the form of increased military armaments from both Russia and China. The conclusion was that it is not less of cooperation that is needed but more of cooperation and a deepening of cooperation. Against this background and in the light of the serious developments in the area, I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is there anything that would suggest that Sweden's Arctic Strategy would be weakened by Swedish membership of NATO? Is it not, in fact, exactly the opposite?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1289	Madam President, I would like As Lars Adaktusson knows, the government does not consider a Swedish NATO membership to be relevant. Our security policy is solid, and our freedom of alliance serves us well. It contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. However, this requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1291	Madam President, I would like Yes, I know about that. It is about the role of NATO and NATO's action, and it would have been interesting and welcome if the Foreign Minister had just stressed the importance of NATO. The response from NATO to the serious developments we are seeing in this area is of central importance. These are major resource reinforcements that have increased defence capabilities on land, in the air and at sea. This, together with more exercises and a new command structure for the North Atlantic, contributes to increased security, not least for Sweden. Yet Sweden is not part of NATO. Social democracy keeps our country outside the defence alliance of Western democracies. Let me make it clear that it benefits neither our country nor the important cooperation that is required in relation to the Arctic region.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1295	Madam President, I would like I don't share Lars Adaktusson's vision. We believe that the close cooperation that Sweden has with NATO, which is one of the closest ones, not least in the case of complex exercises, which, among other things, Sweden is taking the initiative together with NATO, allows us to maintain both a military alliance freedom that serves us well and to work closely with NATO. This is, as I see it, the best situation for Sweden in this situation. There is no reason to change this policy.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1296	Madam President, I would like For generations of people to be able to live and operate in the Arctic region in the future, we need to have a climate policy that addresses the climate crisis on a broad front. Climate change is hitting the Arctic harder than any other region in the world. The rise in temperature, the loss of biodiversity, the melting ice and so on are just the tip of the iceberg of the consequences that we will see from the crisis and its effects. Now that Sweden is putting together an Arctic strategy, which is good for all, it is clear that it is the international cooperation and security issues that are put first. But let us be quite clear that without a working climate and a functioning nature and environment we will have nothing else either. There will be nothing to defend, and in a worst-case scenario it can become an area where man cannot and does not want to be. Two sides have climate and biodiversity in the strategy. It's just not good enough. A left-wing strategy for the Arctic had put the climate first and more clearly linked the solutions for the Arctic with Sweden's overall climate policy. It is not primarily emissions in the Arctic region that drive warming. Emissions are also there, but above all they are in the rich parts of the world. Later this spring, the Foreign Ministers of the Arctic Council will meet. Hopefully you can sign a joint climate declaration, which did not last in Rovaniemi. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: when the Government meets its colleagues from the other Arctic countries later this spring, how will the Government act to ensure that the climate is at the top of the political agenda?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1302	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with Elin Segerlind that we do not put the climate and the environment at the same high priority level as security policy. On the other hand, it is very naive to think that you can have an important Arctic letter without spending much time on security policy, because the security policy situation is so deteriorating and we, at this point, want to try to keep the Arctic as a low-voltage area. This is a prerequisite for us to be able to address climate issues. Climate change has a fundamental impact on the Arctic Sea, and the Arctic countries have a special responsibility both to ensure that the opportunities for people to live there as well as biodiversity are preserved and to ensure that the Arctic environment does not destroy the environment around the world, as we have seen quite significant examples this winter. I am thinking of the temperature changes that have taken place in connection with the warming of the Arctic.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1304	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the fact that the Arctic environment does not destroy the environment around, as I think the Minister said roughly, I would argue that it is exactly the opposite. It is our life and our way of organising society at large that makes us have a temperature rise in the Arctic, for example. It is, of course, the overall climate crisis that makes us have a crisis in the Arctic too. This is not a problem that we will solve regionally, but it is something that we can only solve with social change and by achieving, or at least trying to achieve, the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The United States has been an obstacle for the last four years, but at the same time it is not only the United States that is struggling to preserve its interests in this region. Russia, which we have talked about, brings home a large part of its bnp from the Arctic region, and Sweden also has strong and extensive forestry, mining and also energy production in the Arctic region. When the government presents the Arctic strategy, it also opens up new forms of exploitation. It does not disapprove of continued oil exploitation, and it also opens up for further exploitation, with deep-sea mining. You don't say no and stop. It is not reasonable to believe that in a future we should be able to take up more of these substances and use them. We have already taken up and consumed well what the earth and nature are capable of. To conclude, I would like to ask the Minister why the government in the strategy does not put a clearer stop to oil extraction and why it continues to be open to deep-sea mines when the risks are so great.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1308	Madam President, I would like I am very surprised that Elin Segerlind does not seem to have noticed at all that it is a new American administration, that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have appointed John Kerry as a special climate messenger, who is on the National Security Council, and that this has shown an incredible and increased interest, not least in the Arctic. Discussions are already under way on the ministerial declaration itself. We have also received great appreciation from many other countries for having such a large environmental and climate component in our Arctic strategy. On the issue of mining, the Government considers that mining of minerals from the deep sea, including the Arctic, should not take place until the effects on the marine environment, biodiversity and human activities have been sufficiently scientifically described. Here we follow the language used in the European Commission's biodiversity strategy, which came in May, and the conclusions of the EU Environment Ministerial meeting on 16 October 2020.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1310	Madam President, I would like In my previous speech, as my colleagues did in the foreign debate last week, I have explained the Center Party's view on the security policy aspects here, where we have some differences compared to the government. I also got some clarity on the issue that came up in a previous replica shift, and I would therefore like to devote this replica shift to the environmental aspects of the Arctic Strategy. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: why do we include the argument on green infrastructure? To be quite honest, Madam President, my fear is that you have thrown in a word of value that you do not really know or have reflected on what it means and what it should mean in this context. In my opinion and the Center Party, the reasonable way to look at it is that we have land areas in Sweden and in the other Arctic region where we will balance the right of residents to use natural resources in a sustainable way with indigenous rights and with the importance of safeguarding an often vulnerable environment. With regard to marine resources and, in particular, oil and gas extraction in the marine areas, Sweden should do everything possible to resist them. There is nothing in the argument about green infrastructure in the Arctic that strengthens it, but rather it is eroded. It is basically based on the reasoning that we have exploited areas where we are supposed to protect and establish corridors and somehow work to ensure that the natural values are included a little alongside. It may be reasonable to have this approach in other parts of Sweden and in other parts of the world. But then we must also be able to define this. Madam President, I would like I can say that the government's work to try to define the regional action plans for green infrastructure in the parts of the Arctic that are located in Sweden – in Norrbotten and Västerbotten – does not impress. There is not a clear definition. It's not defined who's gonna do what. And the map material doesn't match reality. I would like an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1316	Madam President, I would like In its strategy for the Arctic region, the Government stresses that sensitive areas and areas with high natural and cultural values should be adequately protected. The exploitation should be carried out in such a way that biodiversity loss is minimised and compensated. Networks of protected areas linked by green infrastructure should be created in the long term. Green infrastructure for the reindeer industry is important. In the Arctic Council, Sweden participates in expert groups on marine protection and protection of flora and fauna in the Arctic.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1318	Madam President, I would like In the first line of the Foreign Minister's reply, there is a fairly reasonable view. It basically describes what we want to see. That's where I think we have a fair consensus. But then the question remains: Why should these reasonings be taken into account? We can look at the reindeer industry in Sweden and look at the counties where the government has commissioned the County Administrative Board to draw up action plans. It is not that they help protect the natural values of those who use the land, whether it is in reindeer farming, agriculture, forestry or other areas. They only lead to an increased lack of clarity. This is in itself an issue outside the Arctic Strategy. But it may be worth carrying with it. Even when it comes to our own work on a green infrastructure in Sweden, it is not possible to sort out the definition of what it means, especially what it means in practice for the user. So my question remains: why is this important to emphasise in the Arctic Strategy? I have explained why I believe that there is a danger of opening this up, i.e. undermining the first stage, which was important, to actually ensure that the marine environment and the marine ecosystems are protected in every way. There we know we will have a difficult fight to win. We know that there are major political and economic interests that are pushing to pick up oil and gas that should remain on the slopes and under the sea. We know that there are many forces that do not want to protect in a sustainable way the already vulnerable marine ecosystems stressed by climate change. Why should this be collected, and can we then define what it means for the marine environments and for the Arctic outside Sweden? I believe that the answer is guilty, because these arguments have been included in the Arctic strategy. I have not been able to get a really good answer from my colleagues in Parliament to this. They seem most surprised that the issue comes up. That actually makes me a little concerned and a little disappointed.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1326	Madam President, I would like In the run-up to the Arctic Strategy, we have consulted authorities, civil society and not least the Sami organisations. They have indicated that they think it is very important to have green infrastructure. How, then, can we get a regulatory framework that prevents negative effects, for example when natural resources are extracted, and how can we find ways to drive international cooperation to minimise the negative consequences and risks of exploiting natural resources in the region? The question that I am guessing is also about the need for increased marine area protection in the Arctic. We support the ambition to protect 30% of the ocean by 2030. This was mentioned here earlier. However, the mandate for different forms of protection is shared between several different organisations. This work needs to be done in different organisations, so that the purpose of protection can be achieved. This feels like very technical areas, and I think we will have to continue to discuss this. It is a balance between the need for protection and the need for green infrastructure.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1330	Madam President, I would like I share much of what was said in Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde's presentation of the Government's Arctic Strategy. What I am concerned about is the representation by the Government of the meeting with Secretary of State Sergej Lavrov and the Arctic talks. Sounds good. But does the Government really believe that it is possible to rely on Foreign Minister Lavrov's words in relation to the Arctic? Are we not at risk of falling into the trap of a number of leaders before us, such as Josep Borrell recently? We are applying our approach to Russia. We do not understand the narratives of the Russian regime. The Russian regime always has its own agenda. Dialogue is a matter for Russia only when it is in the interests of Russian interests. For Russia, the world is a zero-sum game – someone wins and someone else loses. My question to the Government is: can we trust Sergej Lavrov's words on Arctic dialogue?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1333	Madam President, I would like You can walk around and be ever suspicious of everything everyone says, not least from people who come from authoritarian systems. However, it would be a completely impossible way to pursue any foreign policy if we could only cooperate with those whom we trust 100% and whom we believe to have good intentions in all areas to 100%. That is why Sweden has a two-track policy with regard to Russia. On the one hand, it is a matter of being very clear about, for example, violations of international law, human rights and so on, which lead to sanctions – in the case of international law, for example, in relation to the annexation of Crimea and in cases of human rights, for example, in relation to the sanctions concerning Navalnyj, which were completely completed today. On the other hand, it is about having a policy of dialogue and cooperation in areas where one has common interests, and the Arctic is one of those areas where we have common interests, such as research cooperation, environmental cooperation and, not least, inter-ethnic cooperation. We have schools in the Arctic counties of Västerbotten and Norrbotten that have exchanges with schools in the Arctic regions of Russia. I think it is only positive that we can have a dialogue where it is of interest to both parties.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1337	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer to the question. Of course, it is not possible to walk around and be suspicious 24:7. However, I believe that, with regard to relations with Russia and, above all, the Russian regime, there should be quite a great deal of suspicion. That is the problem that we have and that many others have when we relate to Russia. We apply our way of looking at the world – our narrative. We believe that Russia has the same narrative and the same view of the outside world. Russia does not – not the Russian regime. The Russian people have it absolutely. This is where I come back to Russia's view that the grand political arena is not a win-win system but a zero-sum game where someone wins and someone else loses. We have seen this in many different arenas around the world, not least in the last decade. I therefore agree with much of what the Foreign Minister says, but I just want to impress on you that a certain amount of suspicion is necessary in relation to Russia. I think that the less positive part of the so-called dialogue, Josep Borrell, should be taken as an example of what can happen if we do not use this kind of suspicion.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1339	Madam President, I would like I do not think that Maria Nilsson needs to be in the least concerned that I or any other foreign minister believe that Russia has the same narrative as us, as the European Union or as any of the EU Member States. We're not that naive. I hardly even have to stand here and say it. What my analysis is based on is how Russia acts in the Arctic Council, where I can see that we can have constructive cooperation in areas such as climate, health and people-to-people contacts. There we have a constructive appeal among ourselves, and I think it is very good that we can have it. Nor does Maria Nilsson have to worry that I would have any other vision than that Russia has another narrative. The first time I was on an official delegation in Russia was in 1984, and since then I have been there a large number of times. There is no risk whatsoever that the Swedish narrative and the Russian narrative in general are the same.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1342	Madam President, I would like The Arctic is a unique part of our planet, with a sensitive natural and animal life that has evolved over a long period of time during ice and in a cold climate. The Arctic is home to more than 4 million people, many of whom belong to various indigenous peoples who have lived in the Arctic for millennia – including the Swedish indigenous Sami. Today, the threats to the Arctic are more serious than ever before. In few other places on earth, climate change has been so extensive and has had such dramatic consequences for plant life and animals as well as humans. In the wake of climate change, new challenges arise. As the ice melts, the extraction of natural resources is made possible, and new transport routes are opened up through both the Northeast Passage and the Northwest Passage. This poses new threats to the environment and increases the risk of security policy tensions in the region. Future activities in the Arctic should and must be based on the precautionary principle and on respect for people, nature and the planet's borders. Norrbotten and Västerbotten are located in the Arctic, and the Arctic is to be considered as part of Sweden. Climate change, environmental threats and security policy conflicts in the Arctic will therefore have a direct impact on our country. Nevertheless, the debate on the Arctic has been largely absent in Sweden until now. It is fundamentally good that the government presents an Arctic strategy and that it – after much if and but and according to demands from the Left Party among others – comes to Parliament. I believe that this is a fundamental element in the democratic anchoring of such a strategy. At the same time, it is obvious that the government lacks concrete policy on a larger scale. If the government is now serious about combating climate change and reducing military tensions in the region, more than just words are needed. For the Left Party, it is obvious that the Swedish Arctic Strategy primarily needs to focus on climate and social conditions, which includes the rights of indigenous peoples. Sweden must work towards sustainable use of Arctic resources, reduced military tensions and increased international exchange. Madam President, I would like I can say that this has been an interesting debate to listen to. I think there have been clear differences between red-green parties and bourgeois parties. Red-green parties have often raised the climate first and then talked about the consequences of security policy, while bourgeois parties have often started in the security policy dimension and then talked about the climate. At the same time, there is a broad consensus from many parties that the climate issue needs to be raised; we see, for example, that the parliament stopped uranium mining as late as 2017, and then it was the Left Party, the Center Party and the government that settled. I turn to security policy, Madam President. Although large parts of the Arctic are not within the territorial boundaries of any country, several claims are currently made on large parts of the area. This applies to Russia, and it applies to the United States, but it also applies to Canada, Norway and Denmark. China has also shown interest, as has been the subject of the debate, in both natural resources and transport routes, despite the fact that it has absolutely no Arctic territory. Several of the countries involved are members of NATO, and this has made the NATO military alliance a player in the region. Russia, however, is the country that has been most evident in its claims by placing a Russian flag on the seabed exactly on the North Pole in August 2007. Russia has also renovated several old military bases on barren and uninhabited islands in the Arctic. The intense security policy situation between NATO and Russia is in danger of having devastating consequences. We all want the Arctic to be a low-voltage area, but at the same time we need to be clear about the fact that there is now an escalation in the Arctic. The natural solution to this is to counteract it, and I think that what has been said in the debate on the Russian perspective – for example by Diana Laitinen Carlsson and the Foreign Minister – is interesting and correct. I think Magnus Ek would have benefited from Maria Nilsson's map of the Arctic just to point out how the Russian thought is. You feel threatened by others. We also know that parallels can be drawn historically back to the Cuban crisis. In fact, the Arctic became part of the Cuban crisis when an American plane in the midst of the crisis managed to fly into Russian territory in the northern part of the Arctic. It has consequences for security policy. The natural solution to this must be disarmament, increased cooperation and exchange – not military arms race. The Left Party believes that it is of the utmost importance to maintain close cooperation between all countries that are part of the Arctic, and then Russia is included. The cooperation that takes place in a number of forums is good. The countries' geographical claims are also backed up militarily, and the militarisation of the Arctic is also evident in our own country – not least through all these international military exercises in northern Sweden. There have been recurring exercises, such as Cold Response, organised within the framework of the Partnership for Peace. We also have Loyal Arrow, which was conducted in 2009 and was the largest exercise in Sweden's history. In 2018, Sweden participated in one of the largest NATO exercises, Trident Juncture. The exercise took place mostly in Norway but also partly in Sweden and had over 50 000 participants from more than 30 countries. It is clear that this fits in with the Russian narrative that there is a threat picture from other countries. If we do not understand it and do not even try to adopt that perspective, we will not understand Russian action either. The Left Party believes that Sweden should not participate in NATO-led exercises, as it undermines military alliance freedom. NATO exercises taking place on Swedish soil, in our airspace and in our territorial waters must stop, and we in the Left Party believe that NATO should not be allowed to practice or test weapons systems within Sweden's borders. This leads to an increased threat to Sweden as more countries prepare to fight in the Arctic. The Left Party has therefore repeatedly called for Sweden to tear up the Memorandum of Understanding on host country support with NATO. Today, large parts of Norrbotten are used as a training and testing area, both for Swedish and foreign military. According to a DN article this weekend, the number of foreign soldiers has increased by nearly 300 percent in less than five years. I look with concern at how Norrbotten is converted into a military training field. An increase in activity, whether with NATO, Pesco or in other configurations, is likely to have negative consequences for both people and the environment as well as important economic activities in the area. For defence policy reasons, it is also doubtful how Sweden's defence capabilities are strengthened by giving other countries, which do not have a cold climate, the opportunity to test and practice in our cold climate. The exercise fields in the north, called the Neat and include both Esrange and what is called the Vidsel Test Range in Älvsbyn, constitute Europe's largest military training area on land. This has developed into an important arena for NATO's testing of bombers, drones, missiles and other types of weapons. This is a development that we from the Left Party have been opposed for a long time. We think that, in the long term, we actually need to phase out the area rather than develop it. If there is to be clear consistency, it goes so far as to allow Israel, which occupies Palestine and repeatedly violates human rights, to test its weapons systems on Swedish soil. Among other things, drones have been tested in Vidsel, which has later been used to bomb civilian targets in Gaza. Sweden should not contribute to Israel's abuse. This year it is 76 years since the atom bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but nuclear weapons are still an important part of the defence doctrine of many countries. Sweden has a history of active work for disarmament in general and nuclear disarmament in particular. Through Sweden's history of military alliance freedom, we have been a unique voice for clear global nuclear disarmament. As an independent and military non-aligned state, Sweden should belong to the countries that ratify the UN Convention on Nuclear Weapons, but unfortunately that is not the case today. Agreements on nuclear-free zones are one of the most effective tools against nuclear weapons and against nuclear proliferation. If countries can make sure that other states are not in the process of acquiring nuclear weapons, it slows down the desire to acquire one's own. Today, large parts of the world are nuclear-free zones, especially in the southern hemisphere. Several of the states that are now showing an increasing interest in the Arctic have nuclear weapons. The tense relationship between Russia and NATO risks contributing to increased confidence in the deterrence of nuclear weapons, resulting in armaments and a balance of terror. The fact that Russia and the United States together hold 90 percent of all nuclear weapons and continue to modernise their warheads creates uncertainty in our world. Nuclear weapons have been in the Arctic through the nuclear submarines held by several states. We therefore believe that Sweden should take the initiative for a nuclear-free zone in the Arctic. Today, border disputes are dealt with within the framework of the law of the sea, Unclo, following the agreement of the five Arctic states with a maritime border in the Ilulissat Declaration. However, this has meant several demands for increased limits at the expense of what we normally call international waters. The best thing would have been if the Arctic had instead, like Antarctica, become a neutralized and demilitarised area with a common administration based on a treaty. The Foreign Minister commented that it has not entered bilateral elements in this Arctic Strategy, but I would nevertheless like to comment on Svalbard. Svalbard is managed by Norway through the Spetsberg tract, which is 100 years old. The agreement provides for Svalbard to be neutral and a permanent demilitarised zone. The Treaty also authorises all countries that are signatories to operate on the island group. Today, the Treaty is signed by more than 40 states, and it could serve as a model for a future Arctic agreement. The Left Party believes that Sweden should initiate a convention to make the Arctic a demilitarised zone. We see how in practice Svalbard has developed into just having operations from Norway and Russia, and in recent years the tone has become increasingly sharp between the countries. It is clear that the Norwegians need increased support from their Nordic neighbours in their dialogue with Russia. Sweden was previously active in the archipelago. We had coal mines, as the coal is relatively easy to access. However, it is not profitable and not environmentally sustainable, and transport is very long. Nevertheless, Russia is holding on to its coal mining. Sweden has a long relationship with Svalbard, mainly through explorer Andrées's expedition that failed to reach the North Pole with a balloon. In order to support Norway's management of Svalbard, Sweden should therefore investigate the possibility of establishing activities on the island group, possibly a cultural activity linked to the fate of the Andrée expedition. I think this is Parliament's most creative proposal for disarming diplomacy, because then Sweden could be on Norway's side. Madam President, I would like I'm moving on to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Many of the Nordic countries are members of the EU, but others are not. The Government's letter does not make it clear that neither the Faroe Islands nor Greenland are members of the EU. Rather, it is suggested that the whole of Denmark is a member. This, of course, is not correct and, at the same time, reflects Denmark's colonial historical heritage. Today, the Faroe Islands and Greenland have achieved some self-determination through popular struggle, but it is self-determination under pressure. Recently, Denmark decided to expand its military presence in the Faroe Islands and Greenland under pressure from the United States. Increased international interest in the Arctic must mean greater self-determination – not reduced – for people living in Arctic areas such as the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Today, the Arctic is severely affected by the climate crisis that humanity has created. The decent thing now is not to make it worse by extracting fossil resources that are there, whose use would lead to a more difficult state for the region. We now have the chance to do something better for the Arctic, and we must take that opportunity. Our responsibility is to indigenous peoples as well as to future generations. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1371	Madam President, I would like This is not a line intended to seek a consensus in all aspects of security policy – not because I think it would be impossible for me and Mr Svenneling to get closer but because I think it will be quite a lot more. However, I was quite clearly apostrophated, and I want to follow up on this apostrophation here. I do not want to claim in any way that I would be any kind of Russian expert. I am in this area, as in the area of security policy at large, in every way a layman. However, as I believe and hope that most of us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have spent considerable time trying to understand the Russian approach better than I have done before. I have tried to do so in talks with and with the help of people who have devoted their professional lives to trying to understand Russian action, Russian military thinking and Russian political thinking and where this comes from. I think that, almost as much as it can now be expected from a Swedish Member of Parliament, I understand the Russian perspective here. But there is a huge difference between understanding Russian thought – trying to understand what it means – and confirming it. This was also the reason for my previous reply to the speech by Diana Laitinen Carlsson, whom I do not believe in any way to reinforce the Russian narrative. However, it is easy to slip into it if you become too understanding. I understand where this comes from, but I do not believe that any of us will benefit from strengthening it or saying that it is a reasonable way of acting to claim that one would be threatened, for example, along the Russian Arctic coast. Let us compare this with other parts of Russian thought. We can all understand how problematic it will be if we buy other parts, such as the idea that Russia has a historic mission to return to a greater power and a greater geographical spread. I think we all understand where this comes from, but we are all very careful to confirm it. I think there is a parallel to this – one can understand without confirming.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1376	Madam President, I would like It has been interesting to listen to Magnus Ek this evening, both in speeches and in lines – even now. I think what Maria Nilsson has been into has also been interesting to listen to. I think it is important that, as a Swedish politician, we still try to understand the Russian bear – if we call them that – and how they think and reason, without saying that their world view is correct. I think there is far too much naivety in the Swedish debate. It paints Russia as the threat over and over again and does not see how the Russian side can do exactly the same with what is happening both in Sweden and – above all – in the NATO defence alliance, which raises the BNP appropriations to 2% and has great exercises in the vicinity of Russia. We now see that Nordnorge – Trøndelag – receives large American bombers. It is, however, relatively close to them that this type of event takes place. Radar facilities are also being developed in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is very clear that this is an escalation towards Russia to face the increase in military armament. However, the Russians can see it just the opposite, as it is also a way of threatening Russia. I believe that in a more peaceful world Russia would not feel the need for snowmen on barren islands in the middle of the Arctic Sea. Nevertheless, there is something in their narratives that makes them ready to put military personnel on uninhabited islands in the middle of nowhere. There may be financial incentives for this, such as oil and gas, which Maria Nilsson was working on. But there are also, of course, security policy dimensions, and I think we should see them a little better than I think some bourgeois Members do. I still think I hear a tendency at Magnus Ek to try to understand them.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1381	Madam President, I would like It's nice that this trend exists, but here we also have one of the problems if we become overly understanding – or understanding in the wrong way, perhaps one should say. It's an old fine Swedish tradition that we use the cabbage sapphire rhetoric and say that both sides are about the same good cabbage drinker and triss each other up and that it's about equal. But there are some crucial differences here. There are reasons why the Defence Committee has said that the increased Russian military activity combined with the threatening rhetoric and actual invasions and occupations of neighbouring countries to Russia means that this is the dimensional threat picture for Sweden and in northern Europe. We would all like that not to be the case, but unfortunately I believe that this is exactly the truth we are facing. There is a fundamental difference between us turning the perspective and looking at it from a Russian perspective. It is not the case that NATO countries, Europe, the EU, Sweden or the Nordic countries have invaded their neighbours. We do not square a rhetoric that claims that the territory of our neighbours is really our own. And if we are talking about a more peaceful world, we should also ask ourselves: What makes the world less peaceful? When we look at some of the difficult conflicts in Europe's immediate neighbourhood, we can see that, unfortunately, Russia is often not a party that gets them down, but, on the contrary, Russia is with them and gets them up to speed. In Syria, we know that Russian interests and support for the Asad regime have made the conflict more difficult, longer and worse. Here we have a fundamental difference which means that we must get away from the rhetoric that we are equally good cabbage drinkers and that it is possible to understand the Russian perspective. Of course, it can be understood how to build such a narrative, but that does not mean that it is correct. It does not make it a proper description of reality, and it does not make it a good and correct way of acting. That is exactly what I mean by thinking it is very dangerous if we confirm this type of Russian narrative, albeit with good intentions.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1386	Madam President, I would like I think this is an evening of partial consensus. I agree with much of what Magnus Ek discusses. It is true that Russia has been responsible for the great aggression with attacks on other countries, especially Eastern Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea and so on. That is the historical point of view. A little further back, we have seen the United States, Britain and others invade Iraq and Afghanistan. But it is a little further back. But it must be made clear that the USA and NATO are not completely free from responsibility here. Donald Trump was the one who didn't sign the agreement in Rovaniemi. Now it did not concern security policy but, above all, the climate issue, but it was the United States that left the Arctic table and said that it did not want to join. The Russians didn't do it. It is NATO that has increased its defence appropriations to 2% in all Member States. It is Donald Trump who has pushed for it and thereby raised the threat throughout the world, whether it be Russia or China. The stakes have been raised in this way. Now we also see that the new President Biden, who is not at all the dove of peace that some want to paint him as, as recently as last week, bombed various types of targets in Syria. This, of course, creates conflict with Russia, which is also on the ground in Syria. Now no Russian targets were bombed, but it still complicates the situation in the world. What I miss in government policy is a little more clear disarmament, looking at the nuclear issue and looking at how to create nuclear-free zones in this area and whether more demilitarised zones can be created. There are now demilitarised zones in Åland and in Svalbard. I think it is important for Swedish security policy to protect the demilitarised zones precisely in order to reduce the aggression between major powers such as Russia, the United States and China, but also between us smaller states in the Arctic region.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1391	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 1, which deals with the importance of international cooperation on marine environmental issues. A few years ago, the UN set 17 global sustainability goals. Two of them touch water. One is about clean water and sanitation for all, and one focuses more on sea and marine resources. These are important objectives adopted by the UN Member States, since no country alone can deal with the problems arising, for example, from marine litter and acidification. A good and viable marine environment therefore requires more and constructive international cooperation. But what about the goals? Yes, in Sweden it is SCB that monitors the development annually. And on the water and sewage side we can handle it galantly, but SCB points out at the same time that we must continue to work to ensure that we also have good quality drinking water in 2030. As far as the objective of the sea is concerned, the situation is more worrying. In particular, SCB highlights problems with eutrophication, hazardous substances and the deplorable development of certain fish stocks. Another problem is that there are signs of acidification in the Baltic Sea. Seas normally absorb the atmosphere's excess of carbon dioxide, but in recent decades the extent of carbon dioxide has become so large that the oceans cannot cope anymore and are therefore becoming acidified. This has a major impact on the entire ecosystem and biodiversity of the oceans. This is of course worrying, and it shows the strong links that must exist between an active climate policy and an active maritime policy. As I said, the situation is good with regard to drinking water, although in recent years we have actually discovered a couple of drinking water sources that are so heavily polluted that they have had to be closed down. We therefore need to do more to ensure the quality of the water, but also to learn more about which chemicals we are exposed to, how dangerous they are and, above all, what we can do about them. We therefore want Moderates to set up a multi-disciplinary centre of competence for drinking water. This could come in handy, because in two years' time we will be introducing a new European law in this area. It will set minimum levels of certain substances such as PFAS, bisphenol A and uranium. It's a good initiative. The new feature of EU law is that it will also target demands all the way from the source to the crane. Now it is important that Sweden, like other countries, even if we have good water, sharpens itself further and may even export its know-how to other countries. I mentioned that there will be minimum requirements for PFAS. It is the chemical that has caused great concern and anguish for the inhabitants of Kallinge in Blekinge and about which there is currently a legal process. Water supply is another important issue. In recent years, parts of Sweden have been hit hard by drought, which has given low groundwater and run-down wells. This, of course, affects both households and companies very badly. Agriculture, in particular, has had major problems in managing the water supply for its animals. This is also reflected in the report on the vulnerability of agriculture published by us in the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment. We must therefore do more to save drinking water, and we should be able to do so. Today, each Swedish uses 140 litres of water per day, but only 1.5 per cent of the water is actually used for cooking or drinking. It would therefore be good if, for example, when we water or flush things, we could use what is called technical water, which has a different kind of purification than the high-quality drinking water. This could be taken into account when planning new residential areas, for example. We think that should be done. As I said, the EU will soon contribute to a better water check. Another issue that has been said will be the leakage of drinking water. Here I didn't think the problems were so big, but the fact is that even with us in Sweden there is a lot of water leaking out of our wiring networks. In 2019 the leakage was at levels between 16 and 25 per cent. In view of climate change and other things, this is important to keep track of even in a country that is water-rich like ours. In the future, there is now a great need for investment. Svenskt Vatten, which is the local government industry organisation, estimates the new costs at SEK 23 billion per year over the next 20 years. Therefore, it is important that the government now actually tries to find out how today's infrastructure, even though it is municipal, can be adapted cost-effectively to future challenges. It's water in and drain out. In order for us to minimize the amount of harmful wastewater that reaches nature, we must work both upstream and downstream, as they say. We must work preventively and also find better purification at the outlet. This has been invested in. Among other things, it was the moderate-led alliance government that pushed the issues to get better at removing drug residues and waterborne contagions from wastewater. This is an issue that we continue to pursue, because there are still major problems with drugs that come into our seas, such as the Baltic Sea, and that can even make fishermen bi-sex. Today, when water is quality assured, one looks at the presence of a few substances. Then we know that there are 180 000 registered substances in the European Union. We must therefore have better control and find out what happens to so-called coc k tail effects, as several chemical substances are at risk of interacting in a negative way. More knowledge needs to be collected and used pro-actively, which now that you are looking at viruses in waste water can use it as an indicator for the outbreaks of covid. However, the issue of waste water treatment technologies and requirements must also be dealt with on the basis of the situation. Today, there are very high demands on the treatment of individual sewers, although the environmental benefits do not at all correspond to the costs of the measures. Today it can cost between 70 000 and 150 000 to fix a sewer. There is a lot of money that causes many to leave homes and homes. It doesn't make sense. Nevertheless, the emissions from these properties may represent only 6% of Sweden's total phosphorus emissions. That's an interesting factor. It's interesting, because at the same time there are scientific studies that say that if account were to be taken of the self-cleaning that these sewers do in terms of both phosphorus and other pollutants – it's called soil retention – the requirements for renovations would not have to be as extensive as they are today. We Moderates are surprised that the authorities are not acting more on the basis of evidence and proven experience. This should be the case and a propriety should be introduced. Finally, Madam President. As is clear from my speech, we would argue that there is a need for more knowledge of water. We are therefore grateful for the initiative presented by the government in the research bill, which talks about establishing a national programme for the sea and water. We wrote about that already in our committee motion. We hope and believe in this, and we actually add money to this particular issue. This is an area that is extremely important to all the people of our entire earth.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1409	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating water conservation. Perhaps that is the most important issue we have to deal with. Water, and above all clean water, is a prerequisite for life and for humanity to function on this planet. And as long as there is life on this planet, our watercourses will also be affected to some extent. We can look at our own region. 90 million people live in the Baltic basin. Most live in the southern part of the region, and the single largest country is Poland. This is one of the more industrialised regions of the world. These are prosperous countries with high gross domestic product that produce high values annually. Of course, it affects our seas. There are 3 000 treatment plants in this region. Some are used by millions of people and others by very few. This underlines the importance of international work. Regardless of what policy we conduct here in Parliament, we cannot solve the problem here alone. Madam President, I would like It is positive that this has also been the focus of the committee's work. Last year, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement that Sweden will push forward to increase international cooperation within OSPAR and Helcom. We are still waiting for reporting back on this, but it is a good focus that the Riksdag has had. It also feels important to address the work of the Environmental Target Committee, which was finally reported a few months ago. We have presented a report in which there is, for the most part, a broad consensus across party boundaries. These are new milestones for the re-introduction of plant nutrients and marine site protection. It is also about simplification work and proposals that will improve the interaction between authorities and government. During the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee, it turned out, at least to me, that there has been a problem that both present and former governments have not taken full responsibility for politics. Much has been shoveled around between authorities, who in turn have been reluctant to shovel things back to the Government Office. It is complicated to work on water management issues. Sweden's impact is not decisive in any way. A measure does not have a short-term effect, but usually takes several years. Nor are the issues without conflicts of interest. While we want more food to be produced, it is a fact that the more we use the soil, the harder it will be to reduce the impact on our water. Particularly significant are the problems in Poland, for example, which has soils that require a lot of additives. There are also many and small farms. The more actors who use the earth, the harder it will of course be to achieve behavioral changes. Conflicts of interest are crucial when it comes to these issues. We have a living countryside with increased Swedish food production, and we have work against nutrient leakage. We have improvements in the sewers of individuals in favour of municipal sewage systems and modernisation of existing ones, while at the same time having extremely high costs for individuals. People may be allowed to walk from house and home because they cannot afford it. They may not be able to raise the mortgage because they are too old or because their houses in the countryside are not worth enough. We have conflicts of interest in maritime transport in order to improve air quality and reduce emissions. At the same time, it disturbs the life of our seas and impairs the quality of our waters. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 9. It is an issue in which we see that there are not many conflicts of interest. It is about the EU's water directives and the Swedish implementation. In line with technical progress, increased population and increased requirements for treatment, Swedish wastewater treatment plants will need to be renewed in the future. We need to be able to separate more nutrients as well as drug residues, and treatment plants need to increase their capacity. The EU Water Directive is currently an obstacle to this work, and decisions have been taken that do not allow wastewater treatment plants to be built to the extent necessary to enable efficient and maximum treatment. The directive currently prevents investment in new advanced technologies that can enable the purification of pharmaceutical residues while at the same time favouring less efficient facilities. It is important here that Sweden and the government act within the framework of EU cooperation to change the Water Directive so that environmental protection activities such as wastewater treatment plants and other environmental measures in society can always be allowed.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1421	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservation 4 under paragraph 3. Sweden is a country that in every way is characterized by water through the lakes, seas and streams that have given us food, livelihood and our most important routes through most of our history. The fact that we stand here at all on Helgeandsholmen and debate basically depends on the importance of controlling the waterway that goes outside the Parliament's panoramic windows. We are also affected by the water because Sweden is basically a water-sick country. We have swamps, marshes, wetlands, bogs, gullies and other water bodies for which the Swedish language has words. The reality for all generations of Swedes before our own is marked by hard work to drain, drain, sink, raise, control and divert water. Water has been equal parts of resource and worries. For us, Madam President, the situation is different. Clean water, available water during periods of low precipitation and viable marine ecosystems are not and will not be a matter of course. On the contrary, it is an increasingly important and more expensive resource even here in Sweden. Climate change means that droughts and forest fires as well as floods and extreme rainfall will become increasingly common. This will also be difficult to handle in a country where the handling of water has usually meant dipping out and getting water out as soon as it only goes to sea and large lakes. From the point of view of social security as well as biodiversity and agriculture, as well as reducing eutrophication and marine litter, it is of great importance to have more wetlands, dams and stocks of water in the landscape. The Center Party has therefore tried to strengthen financial investment in more wetlands in its budgetary cooperation. I am proud and happy about this, but a great deal of work remains to be done, both in terms of improving the possibilities for the construction of irrigation ponds and taking part in funding for the construction of wetlands and in strengthening efforts with the best results, such as the work with LEVA coordinators to ensure that we get out and implement measures for more wetlands and more standing water in the landscape. Madam President, I would like Water conservation is of course not just about getting more standing water in the right places in the Swedish landscape. At least as important is to ensure access to clean water and to purify the water we have used in industries and households. A major challenge is that the Swedish va-system is obsolete. It is often infrastructure from the 50's, 60's and 70's that is in great need of both new investments, where we build new ones, and reinvestment beyond the existing ones. The system is also under constant pressure due to climate change. Expert assessors estimate the investment needs in the Swedish va-net at around 20 billion per year during the 20th century. At present, we are projecting for 16 billion, but we are only building for 11 billion. We can therefore expect approximately a doubling in investments in the Swedish va-nets if we are to be able to meet the needs, adapt climate change and meet environmental objectives. Now I am not saying that anyone in this House would be intoxicated in any way, but this is an investment need that should make more of us sober up a little and also realise the great political will that will be required, for an infrastructure that, as it is, does not exist and is therefore not very high in the public consciousness either. Yet it is crucial for the functioning of our modern society. The Center Party wants to review the possibilities to fund funds within the va-collective for reinvestments, but also to open up the possibility of taking in private investment from, for example, long-term financiers such as pension funds – who are really keen to be able to invest long-term in this type of project. However, that possibility does not exist at present. We also want to look at the possibilities of working together to pool the economic muscles and skills needed to cope with these projects, not only to maintain the standard but also to raise it. In the longer term, we also want to review, if necessary, the possibilities of a form of public or regional water charge. For clean water and a functioning water treatment, my friends, are not a resource that we can count on; it is something that we will have to invest in. Nor, of course, is it simply a matter of coping with the water treatment as it has been so far. We know that we need to raise standards in order to clean up medicines, endocrine disruptors and micro-junk. Although it is true that the great pressures on the Baltic Sea, for example, come from other sources of emissions, we will have to do our part if we are to meet environmental objectives. It is not enough to point to someone else, but we must both put an expectation on our neighbours and, at the same time, manage our own wing. What I have been talking about today, Madam President, is just about managing our own wing. To this we have to realise that in the future we are not just about cleaning out and storing away, but actually also about reusing fertilisers, soils and other things. If you have not taken the impression yet, I can say that a glosa that I am sure all of us in this Chamber will mention in the speaker's chair during the next term of office is, in other words, the opportunity to look at this as part of a circular system where we are not only able to re-use a single resource – clean water – but indeed all the resources flowing in the va systems at present. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to mention something about the ticking environmental bombs that we have in Swedish society: old environmental sins from the 1900s, 1800s and sometimes even 1700s. Sometimes they're small in scope. These may be old marinas, boating sites or shipyards where lead - bearing tar and then toxic bottom paint have been used, something that has been continued into our day. These are small ticking environmental bombs, but when you put them all together, they pose a major threat to our lakes and streams. It can also be about real environmental debts such as poison barrels in Gävle Bay, combat agents in Blekinge depth or chrome from the tannery in Valdemarsvik, where I myself come from. Just the tannery in Valdemarsvik and Valdemarsviken is an example of how it is possible to grab these old environmental debts and do the best we can to remove what is dangerous, try to store it better and manage the ticking environmental bombs that exist before they detonate and become new environmental damage. It is important that we take both the big projects and the small ones and try to sort them out. It may sometimes seem overwhelming to sort out the big ones, while at the same time making a greater profit when we do. But we need to be able to handle both.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1437	Madam President, I would like On 15 January, the report of the Environmental Objectives Committee was submitted to the then Minister of Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin. In the summary of the report, we write that the ambition of the environmental objective committee has been that the strategy should not reinforce the conflict of objectives but rather integrate and harmonise the objectives of the various activities. I sincerely hope that this intention will follow the investigation on the further journey to proposals and decisions and not only in that report but all in this important area that we are now debating. In our work in the Environmental Objectives Committee, the focus, for obvious reasons, has been on the Baltic Sea and the challenges that lie there. The Christian Democrats want Sweden to lead the way for joint responsibility for the Baltic Sea environment. The Baltic Sea is a world-unique brackish sea with a special ecosystem. Irregular variations in saltwater inflow lead to unstable conditions for the species present there, and slow water circulation means that toxins and other chemicals do not flow out of the inner sea to any significant extent, but remain and are enriched there. These circumstances justify taking particular account of the environment and wildlife of the Baltic Sea. In order to address the environmental challenges, close cooperation between coastal states is necessary. These should jointly and severally finance cost-effective environmental measures that benefit the common environment of the Baltic Sea. It is very important that the EU Water Framework Directive is implemented in all Baltic Sea countries and that Russia is clearly involved in this work. All countries concerned should also step up efforts to identify and clean up sources of dioxins, cadmium and PCBs. These toxins seriously harm the marine life of the Baltic Sea. Madam President, I would like Just over a year ago, the Environmental Target Committee visited Helsinki. There we heard how the investments made by the Nordic Investment Bank to clean up the Neva River, which has its outlet at St Petersburg, have made a big difference, which could be seen in the waters outside Helsinki. That is, Madam President, in our view, quite correct efforts. Of course, we should clean up our own doors, but if we are to achieve the targets, we must take the biggest emissions first. Then cooperation around the Baltic Sea is crucial because we still see many debts, not least since the time of Communism in Eastern Europe. Although the discharge of phosphorus and nitrogen into the Baltic Sea reached its maximum by 1980, the inland sea continues to suffer from eutrophication problems. The recurring summer blooms of algae are one of the signs that the Baltic Sea is not well. 15 percent of the bottom is considered dead in the sense that only bacteria survive there. Nearly 30 percent of the seabed suffers from severe oxygen deficiency. The main cause is eutrophication from sewage and agriculture, and most of the pollution in the Baltic Sea comes via the rivers. 90 million people live in the catchment area of the Baltic Sea. It is important that investments in waste water and the development of agriculture around the inland sea take place with due regard for the environment. We therefore propose, among other things, that a system of transferable emission allowances for nitrogen and phosphorus should be tested in the Baltic Sea. Further work is also needed to reduce eutrophication of watercourses and seas through more sustainable use, including through measures such as Greppa Nutrient. Sustainable fertilisation methods need to be developed, not only from an environmental point of view but also from a self-sufficiency point of view. Madam President, I would like Along the Swedish coast there are many pre-list wrecks. Several of these leak oil, which damages the environment. Several wrecks also have chemical weapons on board, which pose a health and safety threat to fishermen. Then we often hear from this pulpit about other examples. It may be the poison tunnels in Sundsvall Bay, which no one wants to know. For most wrecks or dumped toxins that pose potential environmental threats, it is difficult to identify who is the responsible owner. There is currently no authority in Sweden that has overall responsibility for leaking wrecks. A 2015 ministerial letter has proposed legislative changes to clarify responsibilities, but they have not yet resulted in new legislation. It is important that the Maritime Act be amended so that responsibility for leaking wrecks is made clear. In December 2017, the Government issued a decree on wrecks with additional provisions to the Maritime Act. This is positive but not enough because the regulation does not concern older wrecks but clear owners. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want wastewater treatment plants to be equipped with advanced treatment methods that are capable of reducing drug residues and other pollutants that wastewater treatment plants are not capable of cleaning with current processes today. This can, for example, be done through pilot projects across the country. In December 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned in close dialogue with several authorities to investigate the conditions for the use of advanced treatment in order to separate drug residues from wastewater to protect the aquatic environment. The assignment was presented in April 2017. The Environmental Protection Agency states in the report that there is a need to introduce advanced treatment of drug residues in wastewater. Moreover, such purification would lead to the purification of other undesirable substances. Expensive demands are made today on individual waste water owners despite the fact that there are far more cost-effective measures that can be done. However, it is for the state to raise the requirements for individuals free of charge, as they have to bear the cost themselves. In order to achieve environmental objectives, it would be significantly cheaper if taxpayers jointly financed cost-effective measures, such as the restructuring of arable land. An upgrade of individual sewers costs 10 000 – 25 000 SEK per kilogram reduced phosphorus emissions. In many places where the municipalities, with the support of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, require the installation of new sewage facilities, it is doubtful whether there is any environmental benefit at all because phosphorus stays in the ground before it reaches the watercourse. The cost-effectiveness of measures in municipal wastewater treatment plants is about SEK 2 000 per kilogram of phosphorus. There is a high cost-effectiveness for investments that prevent so-called silting, which means that the treatment plant will pass the water without cleaning it. Investing in new sewers costs 150 000 – 200 000 SEK for the individual. For Sweden as a whole, the rules governing individual drains govern investments of tens of billions of SEK. It is therefore democratically reasonable that these rules should be subjected to political scrutiny on the basis of different objectives. Today we are talking about individual municipal officials who make interpretations of a general law as well as regulations and general councils at the level of public authorities. And today it is the operator who is obliged to demonstrate compliance with environmental protection requirements. It would be reasonable if, in the case of an individual private household, it were the public that had the burden of proof that the household had a negative impact on the environment. In everyday life, the citizen probably does not think that private housing is an activity. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that there should be a damage element in the legislation on waste and the environment, which means that municipalities and state authorities must be able to demonstrate that there is an unlawful environmental impact before demanding that the individual property owner carry out an expensive investment. In addition, there is now a judgment by the Land and Environment Court in Växjö regarding individual sewers where it is clear that more intervention measures than are needed may not be applied. Furthermore, it is clear that in order for an injunction or a prohibition under this paragraph to be given, an injury or inconvenience must have been established. Thus, it is believed that it is in the municipality to show damage or inconvenience. The reversal of the burden of proof that we want is therefore well under way thanks to the Court of Justice, even though the government is clearly opposed to clarification in the law. Many unapproved individual drains are owned by older people or others with small financial resources. The investment to install an approved drain can be unduly burdensome or impossible for these property owners. We therefore propose to subsidise government loan guarantees to these property owners. It is the individual's fee for the loan guarantee that should be reduced. I started with the seas and would like to finish there, Madam President. There is often talk of sea litter, and the vast majority of it comes from rivers in Asia and Africa. We have therefore chosen to subscribe to a reservation from the Moderates that the government should operate in the UN for a decree to stop the marine littering of the most heavily burdened rivers in Asia and Africa as soon as possible. In this connection, I would like to endorse Amendment No 11. As has been said before, we must take the main sources of emissions first. They're the ones who make the most of it.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1454	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse the Liberals' reservation 7 on individual sewers. Of course we support all our reservations. I will mainly talk about individual sewers, and at the end I will touch on the Baltic Sea and the important issues of the marine environment. Madam President, I would like The issue of individual sewers involves many residents. It is an area where more knowledge is needed in the form of national advice and greater clarity about solutions. Why is more knowledge and national advice needed? They are fundamental to what solutions exist and can be created. Knowledge also affects the future. Property owners need access to knowledge. But decision-makers also need access to more knowledge, not least about the latest findings, for example on soil retention. An investigation was reported on 28 May 2018 in the report Roads to sustainable water services. It is currently being prepared in the Government Office. According to the report we are now debating, the government intends to come back with a bill. It should have come yesterday. The committee responds to the Liberals' proposal on individual sewers by welcoming any changes that could help clarify the regulatory framework for individual sewers and make it easier for property owners to do the right. The majority of the committee says that, pending the forthcoming bill, the motion will be abandoned without action. I would welcome the fact that more people who have now been in the debate had also voted for and supported the Liberals' proposals in the report. Rural and sparsely populated buildings often have their own sewage solutions. It is problematic to supply municipal water and sewage when it comes to sparse locations and long distances. Therefore, the individual drains are needed. Sweden's most densely populated municipality, Sundbyberg, has 5,819 inhabitants per square kilometre. If Sweden had the same population density as Sundbyberg, Sweden would have 2.4 billion inhabitants. Arjeplog has the lowest population density. There lives 0.2 inhabitants per square kilometre. It goes without saying that when Sweden looks so different, there are great demands on the solutions we create for property owners in different parts of Sweden. It's expensive to pull out the city hall. Nevertheless, many property owners have arranged exceptional solutions based on the circumstances. If the solution with small sewers and individual sewers works, why should it be changed to municipal connection? This is an issue that involves a great many property owners. Moreover, as many have been involved in the debate, it is difficult to finance municipal accession if the property values are low, regardless of whether it may increase the value slightly. Many also find it difficult to obtain loans to make the investment. Local solutions should, of course, be well-functioning and sufficient to dispose of wastewater locally in a correct way that limits the discharge of nutrients into the local aquatic environment. The requirements for small sewers must be reasonable in relation to the benefits for health and the environment. The conditions and problems caused by the sewers differ for different properties. These requirements must not lead to excessive costs in relation to their benefits. Many property owners may be very concerned about their obligations, even when property owners do their utmost to build solutions to meet all requirements. They want good solutions. It's about their own habitat. Today, there are those who feel that they have been squeezed into our system. It is property owners who do not know how to influence their situation. It is the property owner who has to bear the consequences of the government decisions. Madam President, I would like Requirements as well as technical possibilities change over time. It is the property owner who shall demonstrate that the plant is correctly located, that it cleans sufficiently, that it does not disturb water supplies, that it is properly managed and maintained and that it functions as intended during its operation. However, the guidance provided by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management shows that it is not possible to impose unlimited requirements on the property owner who has a separate drain, which property owners can experience. Even before the municipality requires an investigation, the proportionality rule must be taken into account. The owner of the property is responsible for its drain, but at the same time the costs must be reasonable in relation to the benefits. The role of the state should be to make it easier for individual property owners, often owners of small houses and leisure properties, to do the right thing. There is a need for national advice to be available to those who intend to take measures for their sewers. Advice makes it easier for property owners to do the right thing. You can also study how other countries, especially neighbouring Finland, have faced the same challenges. In terms of solutions and impacts, account should be taken of the specific conditions for rural and sparsely populated housing and businesses. It is clear that the challenges in a densely built municipality such as Sundbyberg are of a different nature, which has also been discussed by previous speakers. There it is the density and new production that increases the load on the system. However, in order for people to live throughout the country, including in rural and sparsely populated areas, our systems and decisions must take account of their reality. Madam President, I would like I await with great interest the answer to the written question that I have put to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, Mr Per Bolund, on individual sewers. I had hoped that it would have reached this debate. But there is every reason to come back. The issue concerns a great many people. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by talking about the major environmental problems of the Baltic Sea. Dead seabeds lack oxygen, making the environment uninhabitable for marine animals. Eutrophication in the Baltic Sea creates large algal blooms. It produces large amounts of algae that sink to the seabed when they die and consume oxygen during the degradation process. Our efforts to create the conditions for a cleaner Baltic Sea are absolutely necessary. It also requires political commitment and decision-making. Liberals want to focus on research aimed at finding solutions to oxygenate dead seabeds. That work needs to continue and be done together with others in the EU in order for us to have a cleaner Baltic Sea.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1472	Madam President, I would like Initially, I have a message that the first Vice-President of the Environment and Agriculture Committee, Maria Gardfjell, from the Green Party, is not here to take part in this debate. It depends on the situation in the community and on her wanting to minimize travel. Madam President, I would like A good rule of memory is that we survive for three weeks without food, for three hours without protection from the forces of nature, for three minutes without oxygen and for three days without water. Today, in this House, we are talking about our water when we are dealing with the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report 11 on water conservation. It is important that we protect air, soil and water as a whole, because pollution sooner or later ends up in the water cycle. Half of Sweden's 16 environmental quality targets are about our water in one way or another. Here in Sweden too, unfortunately, we are sometimes reminded of the fragility of the cycles when toxins are found in our water or when we are faced with the risk of drought and water scarcity. Better environment, cleaner water and seas and an ambitious climate change that everyone across the country can participate in is a matter of course for us Social Democrats. We Social Democrats want our seas and lakes to be cleared from acidification. We want poisons and plastic not to spread in the ocean. We want to see more protection for our clean drinking water. We want to see continued vigorous action against eutrophication and bottom death. We want to develop new methods to reduce drug residues in wastewater. It is therefore good that our Social Democratic-led government introduced this year increased the funding for measures for marine and aquatic environments by SEK 105 million, which is expected to increase by SEK 100 million next year. It is therefore a good thing that the regeneration of wetlands and the re-wetting of ditched peatlands continue. This contributes to many major positive effects in terms of climate, biodiversity, reduced eutrophication, balanced water flows and additions to our groundwater. The Government therefore increased the investment in measures for valuable nature by SEK 350 million, and this is expected to increase by SEK 325 million next year and SEK 100 million in 2023. Upgrading our wastewater treatment plants so that they can take care of medicines and other non-degradable substances is good. The investment in advanced treatment will be strengthened by an additional SEK 75 million this year and next year. Madam President, I would like Environmental toxins from contaminated areas can spread further into the sea and water and pose a threat to our drinking water. Along the Swedish coast there are also hundreds of wrecks that contain environmentally hazardous substances, some thirty of which pose an acute environmental hazard and are at risk of leaking. Polluted areas and environmentally hazardous wrecks are at risk of endangering human health, biodiversity and the marine and aquatic environment. Polluted areas and sediments should be cleaned and the most acute environmentally hazardous wrecks handled. The Social Democratic led government is therefore investing SEK 350 million in 2021 to speed up the clean-up of the most polluted environmental debts on land, in the sea and in water. This is good. The January Agreement and the Four Party Agreement between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Liberals and the Center Party also contain several points that affect water in one way or another. It is about chemicals, green technology and the circular economy. The point of the January Agreement on preventing the spread of microplastics should also be mentioned. This should be done, among other things, by banning microplastics in more products and minimising unnecessary plastic articles. Several proposals and results have already been presented and work is continuing. This work is also involving more and more people, and more universities and authorities are, as they say, on the ball. It is therefore also good that the government in the research policy bill announced a mission to Formas to implement a 10-year national research programme on sea and water. Here, among other things, SEK 210 million will be invested over the next four years. It is essential and essential that accurate and reliable data and knowledge are available in order to be able to take relevant and effective action. We know that if regulations and rules are to be changed with effect, we need scientific evidence, trust in established processes, consultation with other Member States and often decisions in the EU. It is a practice and a system that has benefited us and that we shall continue to protect. Madam President, I would like As far as our water and the EU are concerned, we know that water is cross-border, and common challenges are best solved together. As a social democrat, I want Europe to take a leading role in the world with an ambitious climate and environmental policy, as does our water. Here, Sweden can and will take the lead in the EU. Madam President, I would like We have long taken fresh water and sea for granted. Me and us Social Democrats work hard for fresh water and sea, for our children and grandchildren. We want to see stable water cycles and a stable drinking water chain from groundwater to tap taps in the future as well. We will last three days without water for three weeks without food, but only three seconds without hope. There's hope. Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1488	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for an interesting speech! I do not think that Markus Selin missed a single positive point that can be raised in relation to water. I think everyone can agree that we want a fantastic marine environment and clean drinking water, and the rest of us have also talked about this in the speaker's seat. But what Markus Selin avoids answering is how to do. Markus Selin comes back to a budget, and it is about 105 million more than last year. With this you would do everything. However, I would like to draw Markus Selin's attention to the fact that what is in the budget proposal for this money is about them going to correct the new modern environmental conditions for hydropower. Markus Selin shakes his head, Madam President, but I have the paper from the budget bill here and can show it to Markus Selin. We agree that we should increase the pace of clean-up work. That is why I think we should ask the question. What has been mentioned in the debate is poison cans filled with mercury – 23 000 poison barrels, of which 3,600 have been salvaged. Markus Selin is a civil engineer and should know that metallic mercury can be transformed into organic phase and methylated and thus go high up in the nutrient web. How can you, Markus Selin, allow this to continue? This issue has been raised throughout the term of office, but nothing has been done.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1492	Madam President, I would like I thank Betty Malmberg for her dedicated replica launch. We Social Democrats have hardly anything to be ashamed of in this situation. We Social Democrats set targets and set funds. If Mrs Malmberg is trying to get this debate on our water to be about hydropower and say that that is where the funds go, that is quite wrong. As I mentioned in my introductory speech, the government is only adding SEK 105 million for measures for the marine and aquatic environment this year. For measures for valuable nature, i.e. wetland, which in turn helps our groundwater and our marine and environmental status, SEK 350 million is added. And, as we said, for environmental toxins, sediments and the like, which have been up earlier in our speeches, and all these wrecks are added SEK 350 million. For advanced treatment in our upcoming wastewater treatment plants, SEK 75 million is added. And the government, as Betty Malmberg gratefully highlighted in her introductory speech, has presented a research policy bill that extends ten years in time, focused on sea and water. There, SEK 210 million is added for the first four years. None of this is about hydropower, Betty Malmberg. That is real politics and effort.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1495	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I am sorry to disappoint Markus Selin, but the facts are to read in the budget bill for 2021. I can hand it over to Markus Selin afterwards. The money is allocated to modernise the environmental conditions for hydroelectric power. Markus Selin is happy to talk about the budget. He talks a lot about money, and preferably you should be the one who bets the most. But this time, Markus Selin, it is surely the Moderates who spend the most money on the marine environment. I hope that we can agree on that, or do I need to hand over papers on it as well? In fact, we spend 250 million on water over three years. We do this because this is such an urgent issue for us, for life, for future generations and for any ecosystem that may exist. It is also important, for example, to have the opportunity to tow the poison barrels, so that we do not get methylmercury that wanders up into the food web and may destroy the chance for sea eagles to lay eggs. There is that possibility, but Markus Selin avoids talking about it. Another issue I would like to raise here is the re-wetting of ditched peatlands. Today, in fact, there is peat extraction in these lands — peat that is used for 380 000 forest plants. Then you can't reinvigorate the whole thing. There may be other features to do before restoring the peat powers. Have you thought about that?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1500	Madam President, I would like I thank Betty Malmberg for wise and rapping questions and answers. One thing I will give Betty Malmberg, and that is that it is the first time in a very long time that the Moderates match the Social Democratic-led Government budgets in terms of Category 20 in general and also the Moderates' view of water and sea. That's good. Back to the smokescreens, having been a little grateful to the Moderates, Madam President. Again: The Social Democratic government has spent SEK 105 million on marine and aquatic environments, SEK 350 million on valuable nature and wetlands, SEK 75 million on advanced treatment and SEK 350 million on clean-up work. I will remind Betty Malmberg that there was something to make up for even the budget proposal in 2021. In fact, there was a budget presented in this House that was sometimes called a napkin sketch. It was the 2019 budget bill, which was endorsed here by, among others, Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats. It was a manslaughter battle against Swedish maritime and water policy. If Betty Malmberg has another opportunity in this Chamber, she or other Moderates can explain what you were thinking then.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1504	Madam President, I would like Yes, Markus Selin, I fully share the view that there are extremely good initiatives in the January cooperation: wetland investments, water purification efforts, a strategy to review drug residues and much more. I think it is a fantastic work that will hopefully produce great results, not only from the environmental point of view but also from the climate point of view. One issue I raised in my speech is very much about a different perspective on our water and sewage systems. It is really about the situation of the little man when we politicians try to make the world so much better. We often use system thinking because we need these systems to work. But sometimes property owners don't really fit in with our system thinking. Given that the bill has not come about individual sewers and about water services, which will bring some sort of clarity to these questions, I wonder how Markus Selin views the fact that we have the large-scale solutions suitable for urban areas but no solutions for people living in rural and sparsely populated areas. We also have rural and sparsely populated areas in the Stockholm region. In view of what we have now heard about the cost of investing, about 23 billion on an annual basis, I wonder how Markus Selin and the Social Democrats view measures that make it easier for property owners who have small, individual sewers to get a solution that works both for them and for society at large.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1508	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina Lundström, for good questions! If you as a property owner live in what we could call Swedish sparsely populated areas or where the property value is quite low, an investment in an individual drain becomes a large part of the property's value. I have full respect for all those who are in the possible situation. Just as Nina Lundström highlighted, there is a budget proposal on the way. It would have come in the days, but I can't tell you exactly what date it's coming. It comes after a rather extensive and, in my opinion, very well-written investigation called, as Nina said, Roads to sustainable water services. It highlights many good examples of what is to come. I do not wish to pre-empt the budget proposal, but I would nevertheless like to remind you of all the environmental quality objectives set by Parliament 16. It is a conflict of interests if we are to reach the goal of no eutrophication while we have individual sewers. Not all but some of these, let's say 150 000 individual drains leak too much nutrients out where we don't want them. It is therefore a problem to reach the goal of no eutrophication, which is one of 16 environmental quality objectives, without these individual drains being addressed, quite simply.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1512	Madam President, I would like The central point here is whether or not the sewers are approved from an environmental point of view. That should be the most important issue, regardless of what kind of solutions we are creating. I live in an exceptionally densely populated municipality. There is another type of challenge in view of large amounts of rain and a high load on old sewage systems. Not for nothing can I also have great respect for those who struggle with their existence in rural and sparsely populated areas. To be able to bring about municipal va everywhere I think is a very big challenge, although I am the first to say that of course I think it would be good. If we are going to try to find other types of solutions, I am keen to think about how we, as decision-makers, can contribute to the development of these solutions. As I mentioned, it is about knowledge about national advice and where a property owner should turn to get impartial knowledge of what is approved. The second is: if a solution is rejected for some reason because it does not work, who should bear the burden of proof that it does not work? The third is the new knowledge, which some speakers have also mentioned. How do we decision-makers get a good understanding of how the environmental impact is actually taken into account, for example in the question of soil retention and much more? What I'm going after is trying to find a system that will give you a good opportunity to contribute to environmental work, but also to get reasonable solutions, regardless of where you live in the country. This is really the question that I think it is important to find an answer to. How does Markus Selin view the question of knowledge? That's step one.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1519	Madam President, I would like I thank Nina Lundström for her good contributions and questions. I start where Nina Lundström left off. In the study on sustainable water services, the knowledge is clearly raised. This is, for example, about better sewage advice to property owners. That's a big part of this. What choices can be made when changing, adjusting and so on. I like Nina Lundström's approach, because as Nina Lundström highlighted, there are plenty of technical solutions. We have a palette of different solutions. It is therefore difficult to give an answer to an individual solution in this regard. Again: The bill may come in the days. Whoever waits for good never waits too long. Let me highlight something that has not yet emerged in the line shift. Not all properties are undervalued by this. An investment can increase the value of the entire property. It can easily sound in the debate that this becomes a burden for a large amount of money, but quite a large part of the property owners make a fair update and investment and thus increase the value of the entire property.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1524	Madam President, I would like In famous style, Markus Selin stood in the speaker's chair and bragged about the government's efforts. That is the style I have learned to recognize after the two and a half years we have been on the same committee. However, the subject which, in my opinion, has raised the most speaking time here this evening did not touch on Markus Selin to a great extent in his speech, namely what Nina Lindström has just spoken and debated, the individual sewers. When this has been discussed, the government has been hiding behind the investigation into sustainable water services and that a bill is on its way. But the Social Democrats must have their own opinion on the matter, I think, and it would have been a little interesting to hear. As it is now, many individual municipal officials have great power and, unfortunately, can make a huge mess for property owners on these issues. And in the judgment I referred to, the Land and Environment Court says that it is now up to the municipalities. Could the Social Democrats and the Government consider clarifying the law in that case? Although the Land and the Environment Court has said, it is clear that this has not always been the case in the past. Can the government consider clarifying this in future law?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1529	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ottosson for the question. I cannot answer a single question about an individual case. But it is interesting, and just as Nina Lundström and I were talking about individual sewers earlier, I can only repeat what is going on in Sweden. We have 16 environmental quality targets set in Parliament. Half of them are about our water, and one of them is No Eutrophication. We know that there are about 150 000 individual sewers around Sweden, and some of them leak. We must tackle unnecessary nutrient leakage, because otherwise we will not achieve the objectives set by Parliament.
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1532	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Markus Selin that the drains that leak and are harmful must be corrected. Today, however, this is done on a flat-rate basis, and among other things, one blames age. But the judgment shows that you can no longer do so. Just because the three-chamber well is from 1972, it should be improved, and it does not matter if it is still fully functional and without nutrient leakage. This causes great concern in rural areas and, as I said in my speech, it can cost up to 200 000 for an individual landowner to take care of this. Unfortunately, we have examples where old people have had to move out of their home because they cannot afford to improve the drain. We want to make it possible for those who have no means to remain. The Social Democrats tend to beat their chests when it comes to solidarity. Is there solidarity also for those less well-off rural people who have an individual drain that is condemned?
i-45ff4c08134ccdc3-1535	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson for any question I raised. Again, half of our 16 environmental quality objectives are water. One of them is no eutrophication. We have a clear conflict of objectives in this. We have to stop unnecessary leakage from individual sewers, and a bill is, as I said, under way. Madam President, I would like I cannot stop thinking about how the Christian Democrats really reason. I have full respect for the craze for individual sewers, because it is an important issue. But the Christian Democrats want to close down the Maritime and Water Authority with the argument that individual sewers are not handled. When we have just entered the designated decade of marine and water research by the United Nations, the Christian Democrats want to close down the Maritime and Water Authority, which was established by the Christian Democrats, among others, nine years ago. You don't give it a second chance, it's boom boom. The next time we meet in this House, I would like to hear how the Christian Democrats are arguing about closing down an entire authority because the issue of individual sewers cannot be resolved.
