i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-1	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me, in response to the report by the Swedish Agency for Growth, what conclusions I draw from the increased regulatory costs and whether I intend to take some concrete steps in the near future to reduce regulatory costs for companies and how it will be that already promised reforms, as a new simplification policy objective, have been so delayed. The overall business policy objective is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. Economic policy is an important part of this work. Over the past year, the Government and the Ministry of Enterprise have worked intensively to deal with the consequences of the ongoing pandemic. In the near future, the Government intends to return to the Riksdag with new objectives for simplification policy that promotes Swedish competitiveness and transition and innovation capacity. The new simplification policy objectives are being prepared in the Government Office. It is essential that the regulatory framework is properly designed, that business contacts with authorities are smooth and simple, and that cases are dealt with as easily and quickly as possible without legal certainty being respected. In addition, the Government has taken several measures to reduce the costs and constraints that may result from regulation. For example, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to analyse the overall regulation within the food sector for five years in order to identify possible simplifications and to work with regulatory simplifications through digitalisation, including through the development of Verksamt.se, including Serverat. The Government has also set up an investigation to propose simpler regulatory frameworks for micro-enterprises and modernisations in the Accounting Act, such as simplifying the use of cloud services for accounting and digitising the management of receipts and invoices. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation tasked with reviewing the current environmental review system and proposing measures to achieve a more modern and effective review. Madam President, I would like The government is also a driving force in the EU discussions on regulatory improvement. In the past spring, the Commission adopted a communication on regulatory improvement focusing on measures to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, including the implementation of Commission President Ursula von der Leyen's objective of one in, one out. Overall, these initiatives aim to reduce the hassle and are expected to lead to concrete simplifications and lower compliance costs for a wide range of companies.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-9	Madam President, I would like Is the government and the Minister for Enterprise satisfied? That is the main issue today, Madam President. In recent years, the regulatory burden has increased. For entrepreneurs it has become more difficult to live up to different forms of laws, rules and decrees from the government. The costs under this government have, according to estimates, increased by approximately SEK 1 billion each year. Madam President, I would like It should also be said that this is wine and water. We should be clear that there are great advantages in Sweden. But there are also some problems and challenges. For example, it is very easy to start a company in Sweden. We have a tax office that is perceived as very service-mind visavi company. Conversely, many entrepreneurs experience a lot of trouble. It can be tax problems, labour market rules or, for example, municipal regulations that cost a lot of money and take a very long time. In the end, any such hassle means that entrepreneurs have to spend more time on administration and less time on selling and developing their businesses. Madam President, I would like It is entrepreneurs who are building up our society, creating jobs and ensuring that taxes are paid in so that we can finance, for example, police and school. That is why I think it is reasonable at all times to encourage entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs and companies can, if given the right conditions, be involved in developing our society. It is about them being able to produce new innovations and new products that transform our society. It is about them being involved in ensuring that people can get jobs and develop. Not least, this will be important now in a forthcoming start-up after the pandemic of many young people born abroad who are excluded from the rising unemployment that has been. Ultimately, it is about the funding of welfare. It is the entrepreneurs who are heroes. It is entrepreneurs who are the mainstays of our society. That is why it is always right to see how to simplify things for businesses and entrepreneurs, and that is also necessary. Regrettably, much has gone the wrong way in recent years. Rules have increased. The costs have increased by billions each year for the country's entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like One might ask: What should happen? Let me give you some examples. We must ensure that the simplification of the rules is given higher priority by a future government. We need to ensure that new simplification objectives and a long-term plan for this come into place and are not drawn in the long-term as it is now. We need to make better use of IT solutions in Sweden than has been done in the past, to streamline government and other municipal regulations and, of course, to make it extremely easier for us as individuals and for companies to contact different authorities. I think we can find inspiration if we look at countries such as Estonia and Denmark that have come a very long way in this. It is about how to implement EU rules, how to involve industry, but also how to use computer systems. We must ensure that, in individual cases, concrete proposals are adopted. It can't be like now that mine proposals are on the Minister's table for years. Madam President, I would like What happens now? Yes, far too little and too late. I understand that the Minister for Economic Affairs finds it difficult to come to Parliament, and tiresome when the opposition representatives say that it is too little and too late. But in this case it is objectively true. The regulatory burden is increasing, regulatory costs are increasing and simplification proposals are being drawn in the long run. We can see concrete cases as in the case of mines where the proposals are complete without the government taking decisions. It is even the case that the KU convicts the Minister because he has not done so. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the reasonable question is: Is the government and the Minister for Economic Affairs satisfied?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for an important question that you ask! Is the government and the Minister for Enterprise satisfied? The answer is no. It is very difficult to be satisfied after the period we have had. After the first half of the year, I would be more than happy to have pursued many of the initiatives I took. This applies, for example, to the simplification journey. I would be more than happy to devote more of the Government Office, the Ministry and my own time to continuing to develop the Swedish business climate. Just as Lars Helmered says, we have a very strong business climate. Every time we are compared with many other countries within the European Union or globally, we are asserting ourselves very well. Yet it is dangerous for a small competitive country like Sweden to be satisfied. That is why, of course, I am not satisfied. We have now devoted 15 months to the emergency management of a pandemic in which tens of thousands of companies – yes, Madam President, perhaps over a hundred thousand companies – were in acute trouble. Of course, I would have preferred to have spent my time on something other than the pandemic. But now it is that neither Lars Helmered, me, Sweden nor any other part of our world has had to choose. We've been in an emergency. Lars Hjälmered, like everyone else, will surely remember what the situation was like last March when it stopped abruptly. Hundreds of thousands of people realized that their workplace would close. Then it was also unclear how long. Hundreds of thousands of businesses and entrepreneurs saw their income fall, with 100% or at least with a lion's party. Madam President, I would like This is what we have focused on. This is the work of the Government Office, most of the parliamentary work and other things have been about: to urgently help companies to overwinter this crisis. I think we all hoped last spring that it wouldn't be that long, but we're still there. Now we feel that the light is coming, not only in the literal sense – thanks to the vaccination, we see that the acute phase may be coming to a halt. I'm saying maybe, for sure no one can be, unfortunately. This means, Madam President, that we can once again put more effort into many of the long-term issues that we also need to resolve. Rule-simplification is one of them, of course. Lars Helmered discusses the report from the Swedish Agency for Growth on how costs have increased. However, Lars Hjälmered does not mention that the main reason for the increase in costs is regulation coming from the European Union, which Lars Hjälmered in this House has also voted in favour of. We, as members of the European Union, are obliged to implement the directives that we agree with other countries. This does not mean that we are simply saying that this is the situation, but that we have taken a large number of initiatives that are now under way, both for industry and for the services sector, and for new simplification policy objectives. Madam President, I look forward to being able, in the near future, now that the pandemic is hopefully coming to an end, to be able to present these also, both to Parliament and to the country's entrepreneurs.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-31	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry lifts the pandemic, which has hit us hard in the past year both as people and companies and both in Sweden and internationally. These are, of course, major and far-reaching effects, which will have to be evaluated later. The point here, Madam President, is different, including the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs has been Minister for Economic Affairs for the entire term of office and not just during the period of a pandemic. We can see that he has not delivered enough. It is not just me and the Moderates who say this. If we ask business organisations, they find that they are dissatisfied with the government's work in this area. The reference to costs is drawn from the Swedish Business Council and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which points to this. This applies to both the existing and the former Minister of Economic Affairs – since 2014, the costs have increased by billions each year because the government has not given sufficient priority to the conditions for the country's entrepreneurs. We can also note, Madam President, with regard to mining activities that the Constitutional Committee has convicted Ibrahim Baylan because, as they said, he has not taken any visible procedural measures with regard to important mining operations in Norrbotten. It's great to stand in Stockholm and talk about regulatory issues and simplifications for companies, but when there is literally a complete application at the Ministry of Economic Affairs' table, it goes several years without taking a single visible processing measure. It looks the same when it comes to parliamentary decisions. The Parliament has been clear about, for example, the website Verksamt.se and with Serverat. Active.se is aimed at the country's entrepreneurs in general, and the Riksdag has been clear: Develop this! The server is directed towards the important tourism industry, where it is about making demands from the Riksdag on the government to facilitate and involve more municipalities and services so that more entrepreneurs can be connected to. Here, too, we do not see any direct hard work coming. My point with all this is once again that we have had a tough and hard-hitting pandemic in the last year, which we shall in no way underestimate – neither the effects it has had in the short term nor the effects it will be able to have afterwards. The point here today is that if we are to return to the important role of entrepreneurs in Sweden as heroes and pillars of all development, for all new jobs and for all tax revenues that they inject and that secure welfare funding, we need to have a government that more clearly and louder prioritises regulatory simplification. We can see the lesson: When it has been successful, both in Sweden and internationally, there has been a political leadership that prioritises this high and ensures delivering concrete proposals that simplify for entrepreneurs. When it does not work as well, it is a little bit like this and so with the priority, and it is in those cases that you have a government that does not come up with the concrete proposals for, among other things, the Riksdag for decisions. The conclusion that has come in recent years is an increase in regulatory uncertainty and an increase in regulatory costs. I find it a little surprising, Madam President, that when you have the chance to simplify things in different ways, reference is made to any inquiry on one side than on the other. However, when this is measured, we see that there is increased regulatory uncertainty and increased costs for the country's entrepreneurs, with Ibrahim Baylan as Minister of Enterprise. I think it is time we had a change in this, because in the re-launch of the Swedish economy we must give greater and clearer priority and encourage the country's entrepreneurs.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-39	Madam President, I would like I myself have been in opposition here for eight years, and I understand, of course, that it is at the top of the opposition handbook to say that nothing is happening and that the government is not doing anything. Should something happen, it is the initiative of the opposition, or it is too little and too late. Almost all of this we have heard in Lars Helmered's post. In fact, Madam President, I am quite sure – I hope it is – that if we had had a bourgeois or moderate government and Lars Hjälmered had been the Minister for Enterprise, he would have prioritised exactly what I have done, namely to fight, together with the business community and the trade unions, and to put forward measures to mitigate the impact on business of the hugely deep crisis we have been in. Now we are not really there, Madam President, but I think that once we get out of this crisis, it will turn out that, thanks to the joint efforts of the business community and the government together, the Swedish business community has done better than the business community in many other countries, in terms of both bankruptcy and employment. But, like I said, we're not really there. In parallel, of course, although the fight against the pandemic and its effects on business, entrepreneurship and employees has been a priority of one, two and three, we have also driven some other processes. Some of them are about the very issues Lars Helmered raises. We know that we have a great need in our business community – and I am very proud that we have a business that is on its toes – to be able to switch business from unsustainable to sustainable and to reduce CO2 emissions. This is how it happens – both Lars Helmered and the Moderates know very well – that new rules are being developed. There we have work going on, where experts produce evidence in the form of simplified rules on, for example, climate change, when it comes to starting and running mines, when it comes to recycling, which is of course an important part of our strategy for a more circular economy, and when it comes to digitalisation, where a number of our authorities work actively. I agree with Lars Helmered that the Swedish Tax Agency is really a role model that more and more authorities are taking on. The pandemic has certainly shown the power of digitalisation, and I also believe that we need to continue to help each other. We are also going through sector by sector and working with simplifications, in our own government administration but also, of course, in relation to the municipalities. In addition, Madam President, in the near future, as the pandemic is hopefully coming to a halt, we will be presenting new simplification policy objectives – before midsummer, I hope. Madam President, I would like Of course, time can be spent barking at each other in a rather difficult time for Sweden. Or it can be said that it has been, both for the opposition and definitely for the government, priority number one, two and three to deal with the effects of the pandemic. The result, Madam President, is hopefully – we are not really there, as I said – that we will be able to see that the number of bankruptcies has been kept at a very low level despite the deep crisis and that the number of people who had to leave the job has nevertheless been held down by many of the efforts we have made, such as short-term aid, conversion aid and turnover aid. We have prioritised around ten different support for the Swedish business community.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-47	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry thinks that it is oppositional and barking in Parliament's Chamber when we take an important discussion on rules. I can be clear and say that there has been a massive pandemic from which we must learn lessons. I believe that we will soon come back to questions about the conditions for entrepreneurs, unemployment and the competitiveness of industry. It is in the light of this, Madam President, that we should see the debate and the debate on the rule of law and the general conditions. We have had a year of pandemic, but we have also had several years with Ibrahim Baylan as Minister of Economic Affairs where a completed application for a mine in Norrbotten has been on his table without him making the decision. The KU has convicted him because he has not fulfilled his mission in this area. My expectation is greater for this and other governments. I think we should do like the Danes and introduce an implementing council to look at whether new rules from the EU can be introduced in dialogue with a step model, as they have in Denmark, and without over-implementing. It is also a decision that the Riksdag has taken but where the government has not clearly returned: How should we avoid an over-implementment forward? I think there is an expectation that, towards the next parliamentary term, we will be able to take on board and change the environmental test to make it easier for industries and others who want to develop and establish themselves. I think that we must have a government that is more clearly committed to the interests of Swedish industry in the European processes and Brussels. Just take the discussion about the ongoing taxonomy, where the government has been strikingly passive and where rules can threaten the conditions for mines, forest and water activities and other things. Here you have to stand up more clearly so that there will be the right rules and implementation forward. Ultimately, this is about the conditions for individual entrepreneurs, that they should have the right conditions to be able to participate in the development of companies, create jobs and contribute to the financing of welfare.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-52	Madam President, I would like It is easy to stand in the Parliament's pulpit and make up or say things. But, Madam President, it was not that long ago that the Moderates were in charge of the country's government. At that time, the then government, especially the Prime Minister, pointed out the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise as a special interest – the trade union movement too, for that matter. There was hardly any dialogue when they felt that they were in the public interest themselves and therefore could not listen to special interests. Most of the Swedish industry, namely industry, was identified as something that was going away, at least in terms of employment. This meant that you didn't have an active policy and an active way of working. When Sweden got a new government in 2014, Madam President, we turned this around. We sat down together with both the trade union movement and the business community and worked intensively. It was about the digital transformation of industry, which is of course extremely central to competitiveness. It was about the climate change of the business community, which has proved to be gold worth when we now see large investments coming in our country. It was about skills supply and lifelong learning, which is also very central to the Swedish business community being able to continue to grow. We have an industry that is very strong and that is developing but where there are of course also continued challenges. In the same way, Madam President, we are working on the regulatory simplifications that we have initiated. Some are being implemented in this now. In some cases, we are waiting for evidence from experts that enables us to change the regulations. In addition, Madam President, it is important to bear in mind – and it is something that Lars Hjälmered should have with him – that even if some are about regulations, a great deal is also about how they are implemented. There is a lot to do, both with digitalisation and with the authorities' way of working. I look forward to continuing to drive that process now that we are hopefully coming out of this miserable pandemic.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-56	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to support the tourism industry now during the continuing pandemic and what measures I and the government intend to take to help facilitate the return of the tourism industry as we also emerge from this pandemic. Madam President, I would like It is a very tough situation that many companies and industries, including the tourism industry, find themselves in because of the coronapndemine. Since the start of the pandemic, the government has launched a series of support measures to mitigate the consequences for both jobs and businesses. Through support for fundamentally viable companies, they can be ready to start up again as soon as society begins to open up. Several of the support measures presented by the government can be found in tourism companies, such as temporary reductions in employers' and self-employed contributions, temporary reductions in fixed rental costs in certain sectors, deferral of tax payments, short-term aid and state loan guarantee to SMEs. It has also proposed extending several aid measures in September. Madam President, I would like The Government has also decided on a more accurate regulatory framework, adapted for various arrangements, based on the risk of congestion and the spread of covid-19 from 1 June 2021. This applies, among other things, to the participation ceilings. At the Swedish Public Health Agency's proposal, the opening hours of catering facilities have also been extended to 22.30 from 1 June this year. Finally, the Government has on several occasions provided the Swedish Agency for Growth with funds to enable it to manage the processes around the support during short-term work as efficiently as possible. Payments of short-term aid to companies for the period December 2020 to June 2021 started during week 14, and the Swedish Agency for Growth has recruited nearly 250 new administrators since early 2021 to speed up the management of the aid.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-60	Madam President, I would like For more than a year now, I have been describing and regretting how the Swedish industry has suffered from the pandemic and the reaction to the pandemic. There are political reactions in the form of recommendations and restrictions, but it is also individual reactions through changing movement patterns that have affected the business community. The tourism industry has been particularly affected. Minimal foreign tourism, combined with changing patterns of movement and severely restrictive restrictions and recommendations, has meant that large parts of the tourism industry's activities have been restricted and absent. In this context, it may be worth highlighting a few examples of those affected. It may be the bar owner whose main source of income is the alcohol sold in the evenings and nights. But for a long time he has had to close already 20.30 and have seen his customers go home to after parties in crowded apartments instead of staying in his controlled and supervised bar environment. It may be the restaurant owner who lives on all the business dinners that usually take place after the customer base has completed his long working days but that he has now missed out on because some customers do not have time to both start and finish their dinner before 20.30. The fact that these two traders are now allowed to remain open until 10.30 p.m. is an extremely poor comfort in this context. It may be the travel agency that usually helps Swedes to see the world and the world to see Sweden but now force t s shut down because of the travel restrictions that apply both here and abroad. The restrictions and recommendations have repeatedly been biased against the tourism industry, despite the lack of evidence to justify the need for measures. Although their freedom to conduct a business has been limited, they have far from always received adequate compensation for the public intervention in their activities. I am proud to note that the Swedish Democrats, together with other parties in the opposition throughout the pandemic, have been sensitive to the business community, not least the tourism industry, and have actively sought to offer the necessary conditions. Unfortunately, the opposition has not rarely met with indifference, lack of commitment and slowness from the government and government parties. And once we have managed, after diligent work, to get support measures in place, new government-related problems have arisen, namely burdensome bureaucracy, unclear processes and long processing times. Many are the traders who at first rejoiced that the government put on the big drum and promised them money and then become disappointed that the money did not reach them even though they are entitled to it. Madam President, I would like Ibrahim Baylan mentions in his response some of the measures that the government has implemented during the pandemic. They are good, and we have been behind them. However, this does not excuse the government's lack of initiative, slow handling and bureaucratic lock-ups. Most recently, the government parties initially opposed the committee initiative regarding, among other things, shorter processing times. After much about and but it has now been clubbed here in the Swedish parliament. My question to Ibrahim Baylan is therefore: when will the government act on this?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-72	Madam President, I would like Now we have had a little over a year of a pandemic that has hit really hard on both Sweden and the rest of the world. We've all been hit in different ways. Over 14 000 people have died in Sweden, and tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs. Visiting industry organisation Visita recently said that 50,000 jobs have disappeared over the past year. We can see that what happened a little over a year ago was something that came true and that at first we did not know how serious it was, how long it would last and what effects it would have on us as people and our whole society. The impact in business has undoubtedly been very large but also sprawling. Large parts of the industry have done quite well according to the circumstances. In my own hometown of Gothenburg, the Volvo group had all nearly 20 000 Swedish employees laid off. They could then come back and almost get on the go while many other parts of our business – culture, sport, transport, tourism and trade – have been and continue to be very affected. In trade, an ongoing transformation and e-commerce has been pushed through. The hospitality industry has been affected because people have not been able to meet or have been allowed to go home quite early in the evening, and you may not meet colleagues or friends as you did before. The thing about being able to go to the theater or the cinema has been gone for months. Madam President, I would like It has been a major problem this year that the government has been remarkably slow in dealing with crisis support for all these affected entrepreneurs. It has often taken weeks and months for the government to decide with its support parties whether to help entrepreneurs. It has taken weeks and months to return to Parliament with legislative proposals. Following a parliamentary decision, it has since taken weeks and months for authorities to adapt work processes and computer systems before affected entrepreneurs have finally been able to apply and get money into the account. A concrete example is those who needed support and help after the critical summer last year – we are talking about August and forward – when the restaurateurs were having a tough time. They were only able to apply for help this year, six months later. The only reason for this is that the government in these parts has not managed emergency aid adequately. Recently, the Riksdag has taken a number of decisions on a number of calls for Ibrahim Baylan and his colleagues to now both extend and develop crisis support. The first is to develop – the government is commissioned – a so-called conversion support that includes personnel costs and returns with proposals. The second is that the government should look at lay-off aid, short-term work support, and see how money can be paid out more quickly. The third is that the government should produce legislative proposals relating to the cases where there is a crime, that is, people are trying to frustrate themselves to money that they are not entitled to. It has been in this system that the government has launched, and we must put an end to that. The fourth is that Parliament has been clear about what is called proportionality. In ordinary Swedish it means that you should distinguish between what is criminal and what can be minor errors and carelessness. My simple question, Madam President, is: what has the Minister of Economic Affairs actually done to complete these parliamentary decisions in the weeks that have passed since we made the decision to help entrepreneurs and to get it faster than before?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-80	Madam President, I would like The truth is that after the initial shock that hit most of the Swedish business community last year, parts of the business sector – most of the industry – were able to get started again while the industries and sectors related to people and where human contact is almost a prerequisite has had it tough. Culture, as we heard here, travel, hotels, restaurants and more have been in this very tough situation ever since. Madam President, I would like I think it is important once we are through this pandemic that we make a proper evaluation and do it with great humility. Of course, it is always easy to look back and say that one should have done in a certain way at the time. But in the middle of it, I can now say from my own experience that it is not as easy to make that kind of assessment. But one thing I can say with great certainty, Madam President, is that it was very good that we did not follow the proposals made by the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates last spring. When the Swedish Democrats tested the opinion wind by going out and saying that we should close society more – it was suggested, for example, that schools should be closed – it turned out that the Swedish people's appetite for that strategy was not very great – thankfully, it has been shown. In those countries, Madam President, where this type of lockdowns were chosen, it was necessary to do it again not only once but twice more. It had a major impact on people, businesses and employees. Madam President, I would like I also think it was very good that we did not follow the Moderates' initial proposal that we should pay out 100 billion in crisis aid each month to companies regardless of whether they had difficulties or not. If this line had been drawn – and we know now how long the pandemic has lasted and that it still lasts – we would at this point have paid out SEK 1 500 billion of taxpayers' money to companies that needed it, but also to a great many companies that did not need it, for example by reducing employers' contributions, as the Moderates proposed. This would have meant that the money would not have been enough, and then we would have had great concerns to support the very companies that continue to have very great needs because the business has stood still. Madam President, I would like I think it is wise for both the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates to back off their proposal to pay out money after four weeks even if the application was incomplete or had not been processed. It was wise of you to back away from it, because it would have made the sex of less accurate people probably become tall. The reason the police say that the number of criminal cases is not higher is that, thankfully, we have had a regulatory framework in which we have also had some control. Yes, it has taken too long sometimes, especially if you have been in the midst of an emergency. But it is important to ensure that these billions – so far it is around 95 – 100 billion SEK in direct payments that we have helped the Swedish business community with – end up with the right companies. And there is hospitality, hotel and restaurant rightfully among those who have received the most support that the activities due to the pandemic have largely been down. I think, Madam President, that we will be delighted, now that we are restarting, that we have companies that can quickly get back on track.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-89	Madam President, I would like I thank Ibrahim Baylan for his reply. However, he chooses, on the basis of his misinterpretation of our proposals and those of the Moderates, to review them instead of answering the questions raised here. I would like to remind the Government that the usual approach is that the parliament reviews the government and not that the government chooses to make up things to review at the Riksdag. If we stick to the former, a number of specific questions have been asked to the Minister for Economic Affairs about when action will be taken on the plethora of announcements on support measures that are now needed in business. I understand that the government wants the review to follow the pandemic. Now, however, both the Riksdag and the business community and interest groups have pointed out obvious shortcomings in the government's work. That review does not have to be delayed. That review has taken place. It's time for the government to start delivering. In my previous speech, I criticised the government's actions during the pandemic. It is criticism that I am far from alone in bringing forward. In my interpellation, for example, I highlighted Visita's criticism. In an interview with the Swedish Trade and Industry magazine on 10 May this year, Vice President Jonas Siljhammar criticised the unsubstantiated restrictions. He said, "Now let's go into the details to screw on the existing supports. We have had hundreds of contacts with members where we see that there is something in the support that does not work. He went on to state that what is happening at the Swedish Agency for Growth is to be regarded as an accident. The attitude seems to be that a law should be interpreted absurdly rather than the money actually reaching. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is worth repeating that despite this criticism by the most affected industry, the government parties have done no more. Despite this criticism, the government parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs chose to oppose, slow down and watered down the committee initiative on faster processing times. But enough about my criticism on this subject; I touched on it in my previous speech. What I would now like to focus on is the reasonableness of restrictions and recommendations. As I said, the restrictions have been severely criticised by the hard-hit tourism industry, but also by sport, culture, young people and, in fact, anyone who does not appreciate that the public, the state and the government are restricting their rights and freedoms. Recently, the government announced a plan for how it intends to gradually open up society and give us our lives back. Ibrahim Baylan touched on this in his reply. He said, among other things, that R agen has also decided on a more accurate regulation, adapted for different arrangements, based on the risk of congestion and the spread of covid-19 from 1 June 2021. ..................................................... I agree that the measures have been far from accurate. I have previously accused them of being essentially symbolic. But the fact that Ibrahim Baylan also admits this surprises me. If I interpret the Government correctly, it was only a week ago, on 1 June, that the government managed to get a accurate regulation in place. That's how he formulates himself in his answer. It's over a year and a half into the pandemic. You usually say better late than never, Madam President. Of course, that is true, but it is undeniably a small comfort in the context. My second question in the interpellation was what measures the Minister and the Government intend to take to help facilitate the re-launch of the tourism industry as we emerge from the pandemic. Is the gradual return to our normal lives the full answer of the Government to that question, or does the Government have more action in its pocket?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-97	Madam President, I would like Now we have lived for over a year with a serious pandemic. It has hit our society and the Swedish business community and led to very far-reaching effects. I think it is enough to talk to every dealer and every restaurateur in Sweden to see that, for example, pre-packed hotels only collapsed in terms of occupancy. The guests didn't come at first. Then we're talking about the time before the various forms of restrictions came. There are lessons to be learned. Either you can do as the Minister for Economic Affairs and just blame the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and other opposition parties and make up some ideas, or we can take a serious discussion. I think a big mistake the government made last year was not being prepared during and after the summer. There was nothing prepared in the state budget for a second wave, either indicatively or in terms of money or measures. It was a major mistake that delayed action. So far into what I think we all hope can be the final phase, now that vaccinations are going on, I think we should take up the height to ensure that the need for extensions of measures and support, as the government has proposed, is done by learning lessons so that entrepreneurs can get money faster. It is in the light of what the Riksdag has made some decisions. Firstly, the Government will ensure that a new conversion aid including fixed costs is put in place. Secondly, payments of short-term lay-off aid should be speeded up. Thirdly, we must come back with legislative proposals to make it a criminal offence to cheat on money through short-term lay-off aid. And fourthly, the government is going to obtain rules for what is called proportionality, that one differentiates between cheating and minor errors. Madam President, I would like It would be strange to suggest, even if it is summer, that you are shady at the Government Office. But I want to know what the Minister for Economic Affairs has done concretely to pursue Parliament's decisions and what the plan looks like in the future.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-102	Madam President, I would like I understand that neither the Swedish Democrats nor the Moderates want to know their concrete proposals from last spring. The Swedish Democrats tested the water for lockdowns, among other things when it came to the Swedish school. It has subsequently been shown that the Swedish people's appetite for it has not been very great. It is also a fact that the Moderates proposed that we pay out aid of 100 billion regardless of whether the companies were in difficulty or not. Now that we are in the 15th or 16th month of the pandemic, one can of course figure out how much of the taxpayers' money it would have cost and if we had been able to afford to support the companies that really needed and continue to need it. They may find it unpleasant that I bring it up. But it's still a fact when we talk about why we did it this way. When you enter a global pandemic in this way, very much of the work becomes such that you work while you run. I think we all basically, once it struck, tried to do our best, work on and make proposals. I understand, as I said, that it is unpleasant for me to bring it up in a political discussion; of course it would never have held. Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the basic question of what we are doing and answer several questions. We have ensured that the authorities receive more and more resources so that they can hire more people and manage. They will ensure that the money both comes out and comes to the right company. It should be controlled so that organised crime, which is always suited to crises, does not take advantage of taxpayers' money to advance its positions. The proposal of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats – from which they have fortunately backed up – was to pay out even if in this case the authorities do not have time to check that it is the right company or that the conditions are right. It could have been just a potential food hook for rogue people and rogue organizations. Yes, I know the idea was that if it turned out to be wrong, you would recover the money. But I think we all understand that it had only worked on honest entrepreneurs. For those who did not have pure flour in the bag, that money would have been gone, Madam President. I think we can all see that. Madam President, I would like What is the most important thing for the reboot? It is that vaccination continues, that we ensure that the Swedish people continue to vaccinate themselves so that we can gradually remove the restrictions. They didn't come in because any of us are mean or evil. They have come about because we know that the infection spreads when many people are together and have very close contact. I think we all understand that. I believe in vaccination combined with some of the measures we are now taking to get started – the budget for this year is quite expansive. Unfortunately, we do not know with 100% certainty that we are going to get rid of the misery. But if we can see the light, we can help each other and continue to work together so that the tourism industry will return to the very strong development we had before the pandemic. In this respect, I will present, together with the industry and other stakeholders, a ten-year tourism strategy during the summer. There we can work together to make sure that Swedish tourism comes back and is a strong base power in our country.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-110	Madam President, I would like In some sense, however, it is positive that Ibrahim Baylan now felt obliged to highlight some of the measures advocated by the government. Of course, we all hope that vaccination can be completed. It is only a pity that the government has not managed to shovel this out at a faster rate than has happened. The restrictions have not been accurate. Anders Tegnell has repeatedly denied that he was able to detect any extra contamination in restaurant environments than in other environments. There is no such evidence. Yet it is against the tourism industry that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the rest of the government has chosen to direct their grudges to appear to be capable of action and to take it seriously when they are behind a capital failure with almost 15 000 dead Swedes. It is, of course, in the government's interest to show action even if it has been lacking in concrete and real positive measures. However, it is not just a question of vaccinating or gradually giving people their lives back, but the government has also had plenty of time to take measures to facilitate a recovery. We are talking about structural changes. There is a plethora of announcements from the Riksdag, not least about the rules of the tourism industry. There is now a bureaucracy that weighs on and hampers the tourism industry. Despite this, the government has not addressed this either before or during the pandemic. We can take farm sales as examples of this. Another example is the state of dance. These may not need to be applied right now, but the government could take up the issue and launch them. When the pandemic is over, one would have a solution to remove parts of the bureaucracy that now restricts the tourism industry. Other examples, where the Swedish Democrats go forward, include hotel permits, catering permits, catering permits, staffing permits and a review of VAT rates. All this could have been taken by the government during the pandemic. However, they do not, and that is a pity.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-114	Madam President, I would like We are hopefully on the verge of a global pandemic that has affected us to life, health and employment, simply our whole life. It is our hope that the vaccination will be the one that is killing the pandemic. However, we know from statements made by some countries last summer that this had been defeated that we cannot be entirely sure. It is important for us to continue working on systematically and help each other to get rid of the pandemic. Vaccination will, of course, be extremely central. I am pleased that the Swedish people are on and want to vaccinate themselves and that this continues during the summer so that we do not return to the situation we had last autumn. In parallel, I am also very pleased that we have stood together, Madam President. We have spent around 100 billion of taxpayers' money to support those industries and companies that have had extremely tough times. There are hotels, restaurants and hospitality at the top of the list. We have tried to do this in a way that meant that the money has really gone to the companies that need it and not, to use Tobias Andersson's words, shoveling out taxpayers' money – or for that matter, as the Moderates proposed last spring, only send out 100 billion per month. I think this was wiser. Even though it has been extremely painful, we see, after all, that we have been one of the countries with the lowest excess mortality in the European Union. We are one of the countries that has lost the least in bnp. I think it will also turn out that we have been able to save a great many Swedish jobs in this way. Madam President, I would like It's been a very tough time, and it might go on for a while. However, we will do our best to work with the business community.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-119	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me whether I intend to take any measures in the near future to strengthen the supply of Swedish materials, whether I see any need for strengthening the competence of the Government Office in relation to the material issues, whether I wish to increase the investment in defence research and how I intend to deal with the issue of the need for a Swedish strategy for the defence industry. The current defence decision was taken by the Riksdag on 15 December 2020 and covers the period 2021-2025 with a view to 2030. With the defence decision, decisions have been taken on major investments in, among other things, the area of equipment. The implementation of the defence decision will be followed by the government through the reporting and other evidence provided by the authorities. On this basis, the government will make the necessary decisions. In general, however, I understand that the authorities' work on strengthening the supply of materials and implementing the defence decision is well in line with what the Riksdag and the Government have decided. Material supply contributes to the operational capability of the war organisation and the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to solve their tasks. The supply of materials is thus an important part of the implementation of the defence decision, and a large part of the expertise in the supply of materials is in the hands of the authorities. At present, I see no need to change the organization within the Government Office. Research and development in the field of defence will help to adapt and develop the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities and its opportunities to meet future threats and challenges. Investing in defence research is part of the efforts now being made in military defence. The Government therefore agrees with the partner parties to increase the grant for Research and Development by approximately 300 million up to 2025. In November 2020, the Government appointed an investigation into a material supply strategy for the military defence. The investigator will clarify the conditions for the supply of equipment, analyse the defence market and develop the state's relationship with the defence companies. In this way, we are proposing a strategy that contributes in a sustainable and cost-effective way to meeting the needs of military defence for materials and related research, technology development and services in peace, crisis and war.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-124	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer to my interpellation! I will refer to the line where the Minister for Defence left off, namely the investigation into the future supply strategy for materials. I am in the reference group for this investigation. It was the Swedish Defence Committee that made the assessment that Sweden needs a new material supply strategy. The investigation from the Swedish Defence Committee came in May 2019. I note that the government took the time to appoint an investigator and write directives. It took a year and a half to act. This means that this investigation will not be completed until at the earliest in May 2022, which means that Sweden will not have a new material supply strategy in place until at the earliest during the second half of 2023, according to my assessment. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, there are strong reasons why Sweden needs a new supply strategy. The most important thing is definitely the deteriorating world situation. The previous material supply strategy was written 15 years ago, and we have a completely different environment to deal with today. The risk of an armed attack against Sweden cannot be excluded. We simply need to be sure that the Armed Forces can get the defence equipment they need in peace, crisis and extreme war. We must ensure that we have a much higher level of security of supply in the field of defence equipment in the event of a deterioration in the world environment. Madam President, I would like It is also important to consider how our armaments supply is affected by the deepening of EU cooperation. When we decided in 2007 on the current armaments supply strategy, it was based on an adaptation to the EU Defence Procurement Directive. Since 2007, however, there has been a tremendous amount of EU cooperation. We now have the European Defence Fund to deal with. This fund consists of nearly SEK 80 billion during the programme period. It should provide support for the development of military capabilities on a common European basis. I think it is very important that Sweden has a strategy in its material supply strategy for how to relate to the EU's deeper security and defence policy. The defense fund exists. The money's going home to the capitals. Now we need to take advantage of the defence fund that exists to strengthen the Swedish military defence. Basically, it is about us paying in close to half a billion SEK each year to the defence fund. Then we simply have to ensure that it is also used to build up the Swedish defence and defence industry that is existing in Sweden. Otherwise, we will fund the defence forces and industries of other countries. We also need to have a much stronger process that holds together authorities, academia and companies in Sweden if we are to be successful in the European Defence Fund. Madam President, I would like What I miss in the investigation linked to the material supply strategy is the question whether Sweden should also have a defence industrial strategy. I might think we'd be valiant to have one of those. It is about the fact that the deteriorating world situation means that we need to think harder in terms of security of supply, but it is also about the defence companies that exist in Sweden being part of our overall defence capabilities. When Peter Hultqvist was in opposition, he said he wanted a defence industrial strategy. But I sat with him during the negotiations for this defence decision, and then I realized that he was not so enthusiastic about a defence industrial strategy. When Peter Hultqvist was in opposition, he said: If we do not get a defence industry strategy, it will deplete the Swedish defence industry in the long term. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence why he has changed his mind on this issue.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-131	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to see how the political debate is changing. Many of the things that were in fact when we came to the government power in 2014 we have had to in various ways gradually graze off and change. I think it is good that we have come to this point now; we are at the beginning of a change in the supply of materials in Sweden, if this investigation can lead to a platform for this. It is clear that the old principles and the old regulations, which were, among other things, defended by former defence ministers, are not to be filled today, if they were even to be filled at that time. The issues to look at in the investigation that we set up in November 2020 are about clarifying the conditions for material supply, analysing the Swedish Armed Forces and developing the state's relationship with the defence companies. This provides an opportunity to highlight material-related and defence-related issues. In particular, I attach great importance to the point of developing the state's relationship with defence companies. If we add special security interests to this, which we have in certain areas, what Mr Jonson mentions about security of supply and so on, we put in rather heavy pieces that are directly related to the defence industry's conditions. Instead of getting too caught up in the word choices, I see that this investigation, which is now to be carried out, provides a good basis for a discussion on the state's relationship with defence companies. I guess that's the perspective you're supposed to see. As far as EU cooperation is concerned, we must act to protect Swedish defence industry and Swedish interests. It must not be the case that the process within the EU is run in such a way that some countries dominate others on this market. There is also discussion of far-reaching adjustments, which would lead to the rejection of some of the products currently produced by various defence companies in Europe. You have to be clear about this. We must be able to balance this in order to assert the Swedish defence industry. The European Defence Fund, EDF, is, of course, central and should be an integral part of the Swedish supply of equipment. EDF is part of the EU's long-term budget and is financed by the overall EU levy. For us to work with EDF, I think it's natural. We will try to be active to take on board the economic benefits and opportunities that exist, but we must also pay attention to what can be, from a competitive point of view, problems and major challenges. They may not always be based on purely sound interests, but can also be operated on the basis of purely national dimensions and interests of who should dominate which market.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-136	Madam President, I would like I heard the Minister for Defence complain about former moderate defence ministers and the principles that exist for the material supply strategy. However, I have read the directives for the investigation carefully, and it actually says that the principles of the current material supply strategy should continue to apply. You will procure existing equipment, then develop together with others and ultimately self-develop. It seems to be established that it will continue to be so. I just want to say that. Then, of course, we should protect Swedish interests and the Swedish defence industry in Brussels linked to the defence fund, the Pesco projects and all that. This can also be done through a strong Swedish commitment, so that you have a great impact on the interests and preferences that you have. Here, I think the government has done a good job of securing third country participation. There we are in complete agreement. But I think it is very important that we also constantly work to link this with our own defence planning, so that we get as much out of EDF as possible to strengthen national defence. I want to reconnect a little bit to another issue in the interpellation. It is about the investments in research and technology development. As the Minister for Defence says in his reply, the FOT budget now goes up by 300 million, which means that it will be around 1 billion around 2025. It is a good thing that it is moving in the right direction. It should then be clear that this funding for research and development over the last decade has fallen from SEK 2 billion down to SEK 700 million. In addition, when the government gave priority to civil defence research, it spent zero SEK on civil defence research and technology development until 2025. I believe that we will need to make more and greater efforts in research and technological development. This has to do not least with the fact that technological development is now extremely rapid. If there's ever a time you have to bet on keeping up with technology shifts, it's probably at this point. Many other countries work very systematically here. In the United States they have something called the Defence Innovation Initiative, where they systematically work to spin in civil technology for military application. In the UK they are working on their integrated review, and it is also very much about spinning in civil technology for military application. China, as the Secretary of Defense knows, is working on the civilian-military fusion. Now the European Commission has also launched a proposal to increase synergies between military and civil research. I think that is fundamentally excellent. I was therefore surprised when Minister of Research Matilda Ernkrans came to the Committee on Defence and warned against a close link between civilian and military research. Among other things, it did not want the Pesco projects to be coordinated with EU civil security research at Horizon and so on. On the contrary, I believe that we need as close a link as possible between civilian and military research. One consequence of the reduction in research and technology development appropriations over time has been that defence companies have been given greater responsibility for the research and technology development that is taking place. It is the export revenue that has financed much of the defence companies' own efforts. At the same time, I note that the government has not facilitated defence exports during this term of office. The only authority responsible for defence exports, FXM, was closed down. The allocation for export promotion activities was also reduced by almost two thirds. It doesn't really make sense. It makes it difficult for defence companies to export. They need to use the money to invest in research and technology development. We must improve the conditions for exports and not weaken them.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-143	Madam President, I would like What is the basis for the ongoing investigation is that you look at the conditions of the entire supply of equipment, analyse the defence market and see what relationship we should have with the defence companies in the future. This means that we will try to create a new platform for this for the future. We will see what emerges from the work of the parliamentary reference group, where thoughts and discussions can be raised. The mere fact that we are presenting this proposal shows that what we have had up to now is not holding. It is also a thought I have had for a very long time: the system that exists today must be developed and changed. I guess we'll see what it leads to in the end. I believe that with this rather extensive lighting of the way in which the equipment and defence industry operates today, we can lay the foundations for a proper strategy on these issues. We have now started at the right end and laid a foundation on which to build. It is good that we agree that the funding for research and development will increase by 300 million. It is a fundamental fact that it is moving in the right direction. As far as the export side is concerned, I can only say that my picture of the situation is that the Materiel Agency is actively working to support export promotion efforts and that we from the Ministry are doing what we can in these different contexts. We are also trying to do what is reasonable in relation to industry. A lot of time and work is being spent on these kinds of issues, and we should not look blindly at the exact financial resources involved, but also about how to use existing resources and how to dispose of them. I do not believe that we could resolve these issues by simply setting up an additional State secretarial service in the Ministry. It may be that we may gradually go in with other measures. Moreover, the export effort budget has increased. I see that we have good cooperation with industry on these issues. This type of activity is, of course, limited by the legislation adopted by Parliament and the authorisations that the Inspection of Strategic Products has to give in this context. It is not just driving on anything that may be possible, but there are regulations and limitations that must be followed here. Exports must always be balanced in relation to the laws and regulations in force. It is generally accepted that it naturally helps to also promote Swedish defence capabilities and Swedish defence forces. That link is extremely clear in this context. I believe that we have a situation in which we have major challenges ahead of us. We will be active in the EU and EDF. We're going to make use of the resources available. But we will also manage Swedish interests here. It was good that Pål Jonson mentioned this with third countries here, which we have done a lot of work on. I am also pleased that we have been able to have a good and broad dialogue on this issue. But my experience with these contexts is that it takes a lot of perseverance to achieve results. It is also important that you can go in coalition with other countries with similar interests and have the strength and courage to put your foot down, perhaps even in pointed positions, if you are to achieve results. I guess that's what happened when it comes to third countries.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-153	Madam President, I would like It is true that the export promotion budget increased by 5 million. I think it is about 30 million today. In the past it has been around 90 million, and it is still a long way from re-establishing the reduction in export promotion that took place when this government took office. Then, as the Minister for Defence says: Export promotion does not solve everything. This is difficult and complex business. They are often based on the price or performance of the system or platform, but it is also safety policy considerations that characterise much of this. This is nothing simple. I usually say that with export promotion it's kind of like logistics – you don't win the war with logistics, but you lose it without it. If we are to produce Swedish platforms and systems, we must export, and then we must have a robust export promotion in the field of defence equipment. Unfortunately, we do not have enough of that today. Let me conclude by summarising the dividing lines that I understand. It is good that we have a new supply strategy in place. Nevertheless, I interpret the Minister for Defence as being open to the idea of a defence industrial strategy dimension that should be included as part of the material supply strategy. I think it is important to accept the basic theses that the defence industry is part of our overall defence capabilities. Then there are different views on the volume of export promotion and the resources to be allocated to it, I can see. I also think it is important to have a strong commitment from the government when it comes to the EU's common security and defence policy. Here I look forward to further debates with the Minister for Defence.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-158	Madam President, I would like Let me come back to this with the investigation. It addresses such dimensions that it will lay the foundations for the state's relationship with defence companies. I believe that many of the questions that may be raised on this point can also be answered in this type of work. Then there is the opportunity, from the parliamentary group, to make various contributions to this. I think it is impossible to do this kind of work without touching what Pål Jonson calls the defence industrial dimension. As I have tried to explain, this is an important part of the whole, and it is also expressed in the directives. Then I do not know whether it is right to define that export aid should be restored to the 90 million level, as if it were the optimal and the solution to everything, so that we are then on the green side. I don't see it as that simple. We have now added additional funds to this. This means that you can strengthen some, but the important thing is how to prioritise and how to work with different export initiatives. I think that good work is being done within the framework of FMV. We also try from the Department to support this in different ways. I also personally try to get involved and support it in various ways. This is a type of export that we promote from the Swedish side. My experience is also that even if you lead when it comes to price and performance, there may be other aspects that prevent you from getting the job. They are extremely difficult to control for us. As I said, it is a very difficult and complex matter that you have to deal with.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-163	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me: What lessons have I learned from previous acquisitions on the marine side, such as the Visby corvettes? How do I intend to deal with the costs that have now arisen in relation to the marines? What assessment do I make as to how the costs incurred will affect the operational capabilities of the Navy? How do I intend to proceed with the process of acquiring the next generation of surface combat vessels? What assessment was the basis for the decision to set up an investigation that should only produce a material supply strategy and not a defence industrial strategy? Do I intend to take any measures to strengthen export promotion for the Swedish defence industry? The starting point for the acquisition of defence equipment is the Swedish Armed Forces' operational requirements. One lesson is that in the case of technically advanced material objects, the values of experience are important. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the Swedish Armed Forces consider that the development of the existing Visby system is the one that best meets the Swedish Armed Forces' operational requirements to be able to meet a future threat picture. Visby Generation 2 is an evolutionary development of today's Visby system. The possibility of drawing on known parameters and experience also reduces the time needed to develop a new vessel. With regard to submarine purchases, the mid-term modification of two Gotland-class submarines has contributed in a similar way to important experience values. Synergies and efficiency measures have been identified by both projects being carried out by the same industry, which is valuable in technically complex projects. The Government has authorised the Swedish Armed Forces to acquire two new submarines and to prepare for the acquisition of the mid-term modification of the Visby corvettes and new surface combat vessels, in accordance with the current defence decision taken by the Riksdag on 15 December 2020. These are large, technically complex material items, and it is natural that changes take place during the implementation of the projects. The ability of the Navy is important, and it is crucial that the project is carried out and that the material can be handed over to the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration have recently presented additional budget documentation to the Government, which shows that these projects will be completed. The changes reported fall within the financial framework of the period 2021 – 2025. The Government has regularly reported developments in this and other major material projects and intends to return with information in the budget proposal for 2022. The Swedish Armed Forces returns in its budget base for 2023 with how changing conditions for the implementation of certain material projects affect the operational capability and how the agency intends to manage the changes. Preparations for the acquisition of new surface combat vessels have begun. Two new ships will be delivered by 2030, and preparations for the acquisition of two more vessels will start before 2030. Surface combat vessels, equipped with, among other things, anti-aircraft, will be a very important carrier of marine capabilities for a long time to come. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and Saab have signed a contract for the product definition phase for the next generation of corvettes for the Navy. The product definition provides a clarification of the project within the allocated financial framework. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration works together with the Swedish Armed Forces, Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut and Saab to meet operational requirements and create a reliable basis for acquisition decisions. In November 2020, the Government appointed an investigation into a material supply strategy for the military defence. The investigator will clarify the conditions for the supply of equipment, analyse the defence market and develop the state's relationship with the defence companies. In this way, proposals for a strategy that contributes in a sustainable and cost-effective way to meeting the needs of military defence for materials and related research, technology development and services in peace, crisis and war. The export support activities carried out at FMV aim to promote a cost-effective material supply that contributes to the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities. In order to strengthen export support activities, among other things, the allocation was increased from 2021 onwards.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-176	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for the answer to my second interpellation on the future supply of marine equipment! Let me start by saying that the Navy is facing major challenges. Firstly, Sweden has one of Europe's longest coastlines. We've got 300 miles of coast to defend. We have a limited number of warships to maintain our territorial sovereignty in this area. Secondly, there has been a significant upgrading of the Russian Baltic Sea Marine, both when it comes to the number of platforms and when it comes to its readiness. We even saw in August and September last year that the Swedish Armed Forces were forced to carry out an increase in preparedness on Gotland and in the Baltic Sea to handle the rather aggressive Russian exercise pattern. The Navy lives on the front row in such contexts. Thirdly, there are major investment needs for the Navy even after the defence decision we took in December. It is about the need to invest in marine logistics. It's about the need to invest in new fighting boats for the amphibious battalions. It is about the need to invest in management systems and fixed sensor chains. It is not least, as the Minister for Defence was concerned about, also the need for new surface combat vessels. The Swedish surface battleships and warships in general are becoming very old. That was also the reason why during the defense negotiations the Moderates pushed for surface battleships three and four, which were not in the Defense Committee but which were part of the ÖB Military Council, to also be part of the defense agreement. If we had not had that decision, we would have had a decline in the surface combat capacity of the marines, not a maintenance but a decline, and that would simply have been unacceptable in the light of the deteriorating world situation that we are now experiencing. Sweden therefore needs new surface combat vessels. We need this both to maintain our territorial integrity and to ensure that we have a strong war-responsive capacity. These platforms, both submarines and surface battleships, are also very important in the grey zone between war and peace. These are important platforms with the sensors that bring home intelligence about what is happening on the Baltic Sea and in its surroundings. So these are strategic resources. But there are also major challenges for strategic material supply. Let me take a few examples. We have the question of the replacement of the 1984 Orion signal reconnaissance vessel. It was supposed to have been replaced by Artemis, the new signal reconnaissance vessel. However, it got stuck in a shipyard in Poland for eleven months. Nothing happened. I can't believe how that happened. If we do not get the replacement for Orion in place, I assume that we will somehow have to deal with the operational consequences of this. Another setback we had was that Poland expressed interest in buying two used Swedish submarines. I think that would have been good for Poland. I think it would have been good for Sweden if we could have a deeper strategic partnership with Poland in the underwater area. Now that deal went down. I don't really know the reasons for it. The Secretary of Defense will be happy to inform me why it didn't work. The final point is that there is of course great reason to be proud of the fact that we are producing perhaps the most advanced diesel-electric submarine in the world, the A26. At the same time, delivering at the right time and at the right price has been a challenge. Saab's CEO Micael Johansson caught this well when he pointed out that they had underestimated the challenges ahead of them when they took over the yard. My question to the Minister for Defence is: does the government intend to take any steps to improve the governance of strategic supplies in the marine area? It looks pretty difficult at the moment.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-187	Madam President, I would like There is ongoing work on the management and follow-up of costs, follow-up of delivery times, negotiation of agreements and implementation of settlements. There is always a line of reasoning between the Materiel Administration and the industry. On this point, there is no energy and no willingness to achieve results and to solve any problems. Now it is necessary that two parties interact in this and agree on what is considered reasonable, for example in the case of late delivery, and agree on what is considered reasonable in the case of any increase in costs. It is therefore not only a question of what the state is doing in one and the other context, but also of industry. Then it is clear that one can say that one underestimates challenges. It was a big commitment that they made when they took over Kockums from Saab. However, with regard to the agreements and agreements that have been concluded, we must also try, from all sides, to keep them and deliver according to those timetables. Now there are clauses in these contexts that allow different ways to be requested to renegotiate and that account should be taken of circumstances that arise in different ways. But it is clear that these are things that we have to work with all the time. Here I can only say what I have said before. We live in a situation – and we have largely always done so when it comes to materials – where we have to deal with cost developments, delivery times and unforeseen events. This is nothing simple. But for my part, I am trying to act to enforce the interests of the state in these contexts. As far as Poland is concerned, I would just like to say that, in connection with the parliamentary decision, we were very clear about commercialism in this context. That's what I want to say about that part, isn't it? If delays occur, as in the case of Artemis, the consequences of this must also be reviewed operationally and measures taken to compensate. This is something we do in these contexts in order to cope with the situation in different ways. I'm well aware of the Marines' challenges. One thing that we do now that strengthens the navy and that can also be linked to the defence of Sweden is to insert robot air defense on the corvettes. In combination with the Patriot anti-aircraft system, this means, for example, that we will have a completely different capacity to which a possible enemy will have to relate, while at the same time we will be able to release resources from air defence in a completely different way from today. This also means a clear reinforcement for the Navy. After all, large investments are being made on the marine side in order to maintain capacity in the long term. You get to see this in a long-term perspective. Now we have a five-year defense decision. It will be for a new defence preparation eventually, and what that defence preparation will propose and what a new defence decision sometime in 2025 means remains well to be seen. But the Navy is an important issue.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-196	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of the complexity of the management of major strategic equipment projects. Now it happens that a number of these challenges are in the marine area, and that happens at a time when the marines are quite vulnerable. That is why the Committee on Defence will, of course, continue to follow the matter. Just as the Minister of Defence said, on January 25th FMV and Saab Kockums presented a production definition phase, known as PDF, and are moving forward with the next generation surface combat vessel, Visby G2. I note that the government had not informed the Committee on Defence about this except in the budget proposal. Since we had a need to obtain more complete information about this very important strategic material project, we invited the Marine Director, who had to prefer the marine plan last week. We also had FMV with us, who preferred the premises for the second generation of Visby. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think that there is reason to take with you experience from when it came the last time we were going to acquire the Visby corvettes. I could sum it up with the Visby corvettes being a fantastic platform. That's what everyone who operates on them says. However, the Visby project was less successful. It was drawn with a lot of delays and a lot of technical problems. The project was on the desk in 1990, and the test tour command was completed in 2015. So it took 25 years. It was a very demanding project. In addition to this, the export revenue for the Visby corvettes has not really pinked the market; we have sold two superstructures, one for India and one for Singapore. Otherwise, it has been difficult to share development costs on Visby projects. It is a challenge when developing platforms and systems of your own that you cannot share development costs with other countries. Madam President, I would like It would, of course, be a strategic choice for Sweden if we were to rebuild new surface combat vessels or if we were to rely on the international defence market and procure surface combat vessels together with other countries. Ingemar Wahlberg, who was the government's U-material investigator, pointed out that Sweden will not have the resources and ability to maintain a defence industry that can both produce submarines and surface combat vessels. The reason Ingemar Wahlberg put forward was that we had a few problems. It's one thing to self-develop submarines and surface combat vessels when we talk about them in terms of tweaking, but now we're talking in terms of a handful of submarines and surface combat vessels. I therefore think that there is reason to think these aspects through carefully as we are now faced with this decision and a product definition phase. The second is, of course, the challenge of producing submarines and surface combat vessels. The Secretary of Defense argued that the lessons from the previous surface battleship we produced could be taken advantage of. However, we stopped producing surface combat vessels in 2000 and have not produced any new surface combat vessels since then. We stopped producing submarines in 1996. It is quite difficult to pick up production once you have put it down. I do not rule out in any way that Sweden should be able to self-produce new surface combat vessels. It's very possible. But I think it is very important that we also consider the conditions for sharing development costs on exports and finding collaborations with other countries, as we have tried to do on the submarines in order for that project to have long-term viability.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-204	Madam President, I would like We seem to have a somewhat similar picture of the challenges. But the picture is that we're not working on the issues, and I don't think that's fair. If we put it this way, then the problem of stupidity is basically a fact if it is the case that you have your own production. Then you want international partners. Now it is easier said than done to create these partners internationally. Here we get into the whole complexity of a mix of price, performance, national interests and other security interests. However, this is something that you work very actively with from the industry. When it comes to our systems such as submarines, corvettes and combat aircraft, there is a dimension that one should perhaps take up and value when discussing such things: V year systems are very well adapted to Nordic conditions, to Baltic Sea conditions and to the operational conditions in our area, while also trying to make these platforms or craft as economically efficient as possible. Should we just decide that we are now buying abroad, it may be that it is not very much cheaper but that the price tag in that context is significantly higher. There is like no simple quickfix where you can only question what we do and then find some other solution that you think is good. Then you can sit there in the end with both higher maintenance, higher costs in general and, above all, delivery problems. This isn't easy. The competence to build yourself is a unique competence. It turned out, above all, in the difficulty of picking up skills that we might have lost in part when we were to resume the production of submarines. However, we had so much competence that we managed it, despite the gap that has been. I see that Sweden has a world-unique competence in this area. We are one of the few countries that can do this, and the submarine that is about to develop is operationally, I believe, the best that can ever be obtained to operate precisely in Baltic Sea conditions and in our waters. It is also a parameter that I think you should value when discussing this matter. It is right when Pål Jonson says that Visby is a fantastic platform. These are things that are often pronounced about the systems that we have developed in Sweden: They are fantastic platforms and extremely fine weapons systems. Then put this in the evaluation as to how we are going to move forward in these contexts! I share the reasoning on the few problems and the reasoning on the need to find partners internationally. I believe that this is a type of issue that is constantly on the agenda and that is constantly being addressed in various ways. For me, this is definitely not news. It was good that the Defence Committee got information from the Navy. However, according to the ordinary regulations, the Government has informed in the budget bill. I just want the formal part clarified. We have many challenges in this area, and it is important that we discuss them together.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-212	Madam President, I would like I think we can see a pattern in this and the previous debate, including the need for some kind of strategy for the defence industry on how to deal with challenges, few problems, the need for international cooperation and international partners. However, the debate also highlights the importance of exporting in order to produce at home, and this calls for stronger export promotion. I see the red line. I have listened to two presentations from FMV linked to the next generation of Visby corvettes. In fact, I have not yet heard any thought as to how production can fit into the international defence market or what conditions exist for putting this platform of systems on the international defence market. Nor have I heard of any international cooperation at subcontracting level. They may exist, but I haven't heard anything. I think it is important that we think in terms of international cooperation if we are to develop new surface combat vessels. It is crucial for its long-term viability. Madam President, I would like Let me sum up some of the challenges that I still think the Navy is facing. We are facing major investment needs on the marine side. There are many decisions that the defence decision in December did not take care of, and I have listed some of them. There is also a need for stronger governance of the strategic supply of marine materials. Finally, few problems should be weighed against what Peter Hultqvist is quite right about, namely that we happen to be very good at system integration and that we have a high degree of technical competence, but if we cannot export the platforms, it will be difficult for us to count them home. It does not hold to produce two or three prototypes of a surface battleship or a submarine.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-216	Madam President, I would like If a strategy leads us to write down on paper that we need partners, cost sharing and international cooperation, there is really no news presented. I believe that the investigation has excellent conditions to produce a basic material in order to address, in terms of reasoning and proposals, various challenges that can be addressed for the future. The points are things that you work with in different areas. If you reach and get an agreement with a country – for example, buy and collaborate around Swedish submarines – you have a completely different platform to develop from what exists today. This is something that we constantly work with different international stakeholders. Then the cost-sharing question automatically comes in. What we have achieved in an exciting way is the FCAS project with the UK on the next generation of fighter aircraft. It's an interesting development project. Then we can talk in general terms about stronger governance, back and forth, here and there, but the thing is that if such points are to succeed, as you have mentioned and I have confirmed, they open up too much. All the thoughts about how we express ourselves here are suddenly reduced, and then we have a new step to start from. The strategy does not solve everything; the question is what can be done and what results can be achieved from the strategy. What is likely to be part of much of the strategy is what is already going on today. But we'll have to get back to that when the investigation is complete.
i-BgjfpptR2kk6Ko9QizYQXR	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether the government will demand that Paraguay's government act on the killings of Lilian and María Villalba, 11 years old, and the disappearance of Carmen and Lichita and Oviedo Villalba, 14 years old, and whether the government remains unconditionally in favour of the Mercosur trade agreement without taking into account the state violence in Paraguay and Brazil. The Embassy of Sweden in Buenos Aires and the EU delegation in Asunción are following the human rights situation in Paraguay, including this very tragic case. In February, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights called on the Paraguayan authorities to conduct a rapid, independent and effective investigation into the circumstances surrounding the cases. It is important that information on abuse and violations be investigated and that those responsible be held accountable where appropriate. Political contacts between Sweden and Paraguay are irregular, but human rights are regularly raised with Paraguay within the framework of the EU's political consultation mechanism with Paraguay, which takes place every two years. With EU funding, Idea International is conducting a major project to strengthen women's political participation and influence in Paraguay, and the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDMR) is running a project to protect women and girls from violence. Swedish aid also finances Diakonia's work with human rights and social and economic justice in Paraguay. With regard to the association agreement with Mercosur, it sets out to work together through political dialogue to promote respect for human rights and the rights of indigenous peoples. The agreement could provide an important platform for the EU and Sweden's dialogue with Paraguay and Brazil, including on human rights issues. The government, through the Trade Minister of this House, has already stated that the actions of countries, then regarding Brazil's dealings with the Amazon, may have an impact on the ratification of the agreement, and that is still the case. The Commission is now working on proposals that could further strengthen sustainability aspects linked to the MERCOSUR Agreement.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-223	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I note the importance of language when defining what is happening in politics and our relationship with it. In the documentation on Paraguay to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, one can read that the Committee against Torture and the Human Rights Committee are concerned about reports of torture, extra-judicial murders, arbitrary detentions and disappearances by the military police special force. So this is government violence against the people of Paraguay. When the 11-year-old girls were murdered, the President of Paraguay celebrated this on Twitter. Many see this as a way to shift focus from the major social protests going on in Paraguay. Paraguay has areas, indigenous communities, that live in terror. They are accused of being terrorists, so they risk dying, being persecuted, tortured and imprisoned. So far, an Argentinian forensic team has been stopped from securing evidence of the murders. Children's lawyers have not been given access to the documentation in the case, and the lawyers have also flagged because the government has already destroyed evidence. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has also stated that evidence has been destroyed. So we cannot expect such a country to give priority to the investigation of the murders. Here human rights organisations have demanded that the UN itself send an investigation commission. Madam President, I would like In the government's foreign declaration, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that it is more important at this time than for a long time to pursue a feminist foreign policy on women's and girls' rights. Of course, the government's commitment to Idea International is that women's political participation and influence in Paraguay should increase and that they run projects to strengthen women's rights and protect women and girls from violence is good and important. However, it is hoped that these well-known trading tools, which some believe will lead to democracy and development, will be used to a greater extent to push on these very issues. The executions of 11-year-old Lilian and María Villalba and the disappearance of 14-year-old Carmen Oviedo Villalba were no coincidence. It is part of the malevolent attacks on indigenous communities in Paraguay, on women and girls, and a way to keep people in fear. In this situation, it is not enough to sit back and answer that the political contacts between Sweden and Paraguay are irregular and that human rights in Paraguay are addressed within the EU every two years – especially given that Sweden is a major supporter of the Mercosur Agreement, which also includes Paraguay.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-231	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's a very tragic case with the girls. I am deeply distressed to hear about them and their families. As I understand it, the circumstances surrounding the events are still not clear. I therefore agree with the call of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to investigate the circumstances. I would also like to emphasise that arbitrary detentions, forced disappearances and extrajudicial, summary and arbitrary executions can never be accepted. Not only does it mean enormous suffering for the victims and their relatives, but it is also an expression of oppression and a violation of the human rights of individuals. Exposing others to violence constitutes a serious violation and hinders the development of both peoples and communities. We expect states to live up to their international commitments regarding human rights, including the right to life, freedom and personal security. As I am sure Lorena Delgado Varas is aware, Sweden is very active in international contexts to strengthen respect for international law, including human rights. Sweden presented last autumn the UN resolution on extrajudicial, summary and arbitrary executions, which was adopted with historically strong voting figures, and will continue to support the mandate of the UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial executions. Sweden has a global aid strategy for the work on human rights, democracy and the rule of law during the period 2018– 2022. The overall objective of the strategy is to contribute to free, secure, fair and inclusive democratic societies where everyone's equal rights are promoted, protected and respected. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights is an important partner in the implementation of the Strategy. Sweden is the largest donor of voluntary contributions to the Office of the High Commissioner. Last year the total amount of aid went up to SEK 260 million.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-237	Madam President, I would like These are fine words, but one big problem is how to act on the part of Europe, among other things. With one hand it contributes to social organisations and various projects to strengthen women, but with the other hand it puts forward agreements like that with Mercosur. The MERCOSUR Agreement is based on reduced or removed duties, which is an incentive for trade to promote specific products. To understand what this means locally in, for example, Paraguay and Brazil, one must understand what production looks like in those countries. Both in Brazil and in Paraguay, small farmers and indigenous peoples are opposed. Small-scale production, although important for climate and biodiversity, receives neither support to survive nor encouragement. On the contrary, laws and government work to drive small-scale production away to make room for the large-scale. Both Paraguay and Brazil even provide financial support to the large agro-exporting companies. Add to the equation that the Mercosur Agreement's carrot is to benefit large-scale production even more. Not only that – we are exporting banned pesticides there, i.e. agents that are banned here but completely okay to use there. In 2018 alone, the value of these exports to the Mercosur countries was over half a billion. Then we import fruit and green that are sprayed with these agents. It should be easy to understand the logical consequences of this, but unfortunately neither our government nor the European Union are acting along those lines. Large-scale production does not only lead to the economic shutdown of small farmers and indigenous peoples. They are chased off their land, the forest is burned down and water and soil is contaminated. As if that were not enough, the small farmers and indigenous leaders who are trying to protest against this development – and now their children – are being persecuted, murdered and imprisoned. Nevertheless, the government intends to endorse the Mercosur Agreement unconditionally. Dialogue has been written in, but dialogue is not enough in this case. There must be much more legal requirements in this. I also wonder where sustainability is in the design. People, the environment and the climate must be given priority over economic interests. In fact, several European countries have criticised the Mercosur Agreement, but unfortunately I have not heard the same criticism from Sweden. If we look at what has happened in Latin America in recent years, we see that environmental and human rights issues are closely linked, so it is really important that Sweden takes a stand on this issue.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-244	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government continues to support the Mercosur Agreement. We see it as a matter of course to use the EU's association agreements also as a tool for our human rights work vis-à-vis the Mercosur countries. As I said, the association agreement includes cooperation through political dialogue to promote respect for human rights. With the MERCOSUR agreement in place, there will thus be institutionalised cooperation between the parties to be used to strengthen dialogue on important human rights issues. Since 1995, it is standard to include an MR clause in the EU Association Agreement. The MR clause is usually included in the political agreement to which the free trade agreement is linked. The clause is referred to as an essential provision because it allows the termination or termination of an agreement, either in whole or in part, in certain circumstances in the event of a violation of human rights. Such clauses thus become powerful tools for safeguarding developments that respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law. This approach is also used in the EU's agreement with Mercosur, where the essential clause on the protection of human rights is contained in the political part of the agreement. The sustainability chapter of the trade section contains wordings on human rights linked to the labour market – more specifically requirements for partner countries to comply with the core labour law conventions, which in themselves constitute human rights. From those who oppose the agreement, it sometimes sounds as if it would be a threat from the EU not to ratify the agreement, a threat that would put such pressure on the Mercosur countries to reverse their current policies. I'm not convinced of that. Without the Mercosur Agreement, their trade and policy would probably continue as it does today. The difference is that we then have less opportunity to participate and influence. At the same time, let us be clear that other countries, such as China, are working in areas to pursue their agenda. We know from experience that some countries use their economic weight to exert political pressure. The government is convinced that we have a great interest in linking the Mercosur countries to us for that reason too. The agreement is therefore also of political strategic importance. It links two more or less like-minded regions to each other. Through increased contact areas, we have increased opportunities for dialogue in order to try to influence the parties. This is important, not least, in order to counter the increased dominance of other players.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-252	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State mentions clauses. But how often have we actually seen Europe using these tools to pause trade agreements and so on to put pressure on countries where it has moved towards a dictatorship rather than towards a democracy? Threatening China is not enough either. We must strengthen democracy and human rights in the first place and put it ahead of economic interests, and so far none of the agreements have wanted to do so. The truth is that trade agreements do not follow time. It is not okay for us in trade agreements to use customs duties to encourage more meat imports into the EU and to increase imports of soya despite the fact that we know what the impact is in these countries and that we know that it affects transport routes and the climate. This means that trade agreements are in fact an illusion about an agreement that raises human rights, women's rights and environmental rights. So what development does the MERCOSUR Agreement actually benefit? When you point out the Paris Agreement, but introduce elements that mean development in the other direction, it really only shows that you want to maintain that natural resources are tied to Europe.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-256	Madam President, I would like Sweden is acting for the human rights situation throughout the world, including in Paraguay. Although we have irregular and less intensive contacts, we participate through our assistance. As I mentioned, Swedish aid funds fund several actions aimed at strengthening respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Paraguay. As a member of the EU, Sweden is also contributing to a project to strengthen women and their political participation and to another to protect women and girls from violence. I welcome the interest of Lorena Delgado Vara in the many details of the Mercosur Agreement on the trade side. It is basically a good agreement that will strengthen the EU's ability to keep the Mercosur countries, including Brazil, to the commitments made in the Paris agreements. However, I would ask Lorena Delgado Varas to address these issues mainly to the Minister for Trade, as this is the trade minister's table. The EU is actively using these instruments to protect human rights, not least workers' rights, for example in the case of Cambodia.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-260	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what measures I intend to take to promote peaceful and democratic development in Colombia, what bilateral and multilateral measures Sweden can take to strengthen the peace agreement and contribute to stability in Colombia, and whether I and the government intend to act to prevent Swedish arms exports to Colombia. The internal armed conflict has marked developments in Colombia for five decades and left deep traces in society. Four and a half years after the signing of the peace agreement, it is clear that it will take time to build a sustainable and country-wide peace in Colombia. However, the country has undergone positive developments in many respects and is now more peaceful than a decade ago, largely thanks to the peace process with Farc, including the 2016 peace agreement. However, the demonstrations of recent weeks show that many challenges remain. The Pandemine has hit the Colombian population hard. Unemployment has increased, as have social disparities and poverty. It is positive that the government has entered into negotiations with demonstrators' representatives, accompanied by the UN and the Catholic Church. The Embassy in Bogotá is in contact with representatives of both the government, trade unions and student organisations in order to support further negotiations and call for restraint. We expect violence to stop, human rights to be respected and crimes committed during the demonstrations to be investigated and prosecuted. We are working intensively to facilitate and accelerate peace building in various ways, in close dialogue with Colombian representatives, the UN and the EU. The Government decided on 6 May on a new five-year strategy for development cooperation with Colombia. Through this strategy, Sweden will continue to work to support inclusive peace, including transitional justice and increased state institutional presence and capacity in conflict-affected areas. We are also intensifying our commitment to human rights and the principles of the rule of law, gender equality and the environment and climate. Finally, exports of armaments from Sweden are being tested on the basis of a very strict regulatory framework laid down by the Riksdag and the Government. According to the Swedish export control framework, it is the Inspection for Strategic Products (ISP) that examines issues regarding authorisations for the export of war material. The ISP can consult the Export Control Council, which includes representatives of all parliamentary parties.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-266	Madam President, I would like I have put this interpellation to the Foreign Minister on account of the mass protests that have taken place in Colombia in recent weeks. Trade unions, indigenous peoples, small farmers and women's groups started the prostheses on 28 April in response to the right-wing government's tax reform, which would hit low and middle wage earners in the country hard. President Duque then ordered military troops and police to meet the protests, which led to the killing of at least 76 people, to thousands of people being subjected to physical violence and arrested and to some ninety cases of sexual violence. The disappearances have been very extensive, and almost 350 people are missing at the moment. Especially in Colombia's third largest city of Cali, violence against demonstrators has been widespread. In a digital meeting with Colombian activists that I and my colleague Lorena Delgado Varas had last week, we learned that there is a so-called slaughterhouse, where torture, ill-treatment and clean cuttings of people are carried out by the authorities in order to stop the protests. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister very much for his reply. Colombia is characterized by a history of violence since the 1960s. Over 260 000 people have been killed in the violence between guerrillas, military and militias. The peace agreement concluded in 2016 between the Colombian government and the largest guerrilla, Farc, gave hope for a more peaceful Colombia. But development remains unstable. The present right-wing government has for a long time undermined the implementation of the peace agreement. The protests we are now seeing are more than just tax reform; they are about criticism of a polarising government, the vulnerability of human rights defenders, the lack of social protection systems and the need for police and security forces to protect the people, not to kill them. Colombia is today one of the most dangerous places in the world to be human rights defenders. Sweden has a responsibility to contribute to peaceful development in Colombia. Firstly, it is a question of condemning the violence and killings and the police brutality that is going on in the country in connection with those protests. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs intends to convene the Ambassador of Colombia. But it is also about not selling Swedish Jas aircraft to the Colombian government and thus continue to strengthen Latin America's largest military. Here the government must clearly signal a stop to the arms affair and not hide behind the authorities. Colombia is in greater need of peace, disarmament, human rights and democracy than of the Swedish Jas plan. The Government's report on human rights in Colombia describes Colombia as a rule of law, a description that is highly questionable as corruption, drug trafficking and other economic interests often govern political developments. Colombia is a deeply militarised society, despite the fact that it is now almost five years since the peace agreement was concluded. Clearly, disarming the Farcgerilla is not enough to bring peace. The Colombian military, paramilitary groups and even criminals must also be combated and disarmed. Extensive efforts must be made against so-called small and light weapons. Today they are too few and are often missing from the EU strategy paper in this area.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-277	Sweden currently provides aid and training to both the police and the prosecutor's office in Colombia. Since 2013, Sweden has supported the police in Colombia with SEK 42 million. I wonder whether the recent killing by the police will render in some kind of consistency or whether the aid will even be suspended.
i-64mig5JFzKcwdwAc7y6b9X	Madam President, I would like Sweden's goods exports to Colombia amounted to more than SEK 1 billion in 2018. Sweden's imports from Colombia amounted to 502 million in the same year. Some ninety Swedish companies are represented on the Colombian market. Some of the largest are Tetra Pak, Scania, Securitas, H & M, Volvo, Skanska, ABB, Electrolux and Atlas Copco. I am referring to this because, unfortunately, our foreign policy is more guided by economic interests than by promoting the development of countries in terms of democracy, health, the environment, climate and human rights. Here we must take responsibility, because the armed conflicts in Colombia are strongly linked to economic interests, the use of land and water. Swedish companies cannot swear their freedom from responsibility here. One example is the hydroelectric megaproject Hidroituango, where Atlas Copco and Scania have worked. It is a project that has met with local resistance as it destroys the environment, biodiversity, access to water and sources of income. The project was introduced with great violence in Colombia. Paramilitarisation increased due to the project and contributed to the murder and persecution of social leaders. According to sources, the paramilitaries carried out approximately 100 murders and disappearances in the municipalities affected by the project. Two social leaders, Hugo Albeiro George Perez and his nephew Domar Zapata, and leader Luis Alberto Torres and his brother Duvian Andrés Correa are some of several leaders who have been murdered. Both Hugo and Luis were active in the environmental movement for living rivers in Antioquia and were murdered only a few hours after each other. This is not unknown information, either inside or outside Colombia. Participating in such projects undermines the peace agreement. We should therefore call into question the participation of Swedish companies in such infrastructure projects. The peace agreement and democracy in Colombia must take precedence. And the trade that may exist must not increase paramilitarisation, murders, threats or environmental destruction. Madam President, I would like The interpellation is about the mass protests. And mass protests have a number of grounds, including the unequal economic system, as well as state violence and corruption. When the government develops a five-year strategy on Colombia, I see with concern how certain points will be implemented when Swedish companies and investments contribute negatively to this. For example, Sida will contribute to strengthening the conditions for democracy and greater respect for the principles of the rule of law, including reduced corruption and impunity. It will also strengthen the protection of human rights defenders and environmental defenders and limit climate impact. In view of what I have said in the past, there is a need to make greater demands on companies and our investments. Otherwise, the strategy presented by the government around Colombia does not hold up. Things go hand in hand.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-284	Madam President, I would like It is extremely tragic that so many people have lost their lives in connection with the demonstrations in Colombia. The data on police violence are deeply worrying, and the use of disproportionate violence against demonstrators is unacceptable. Respect for human rights is a central part of our democracies and is a necessity to emerge from the current crisis in Colombia. Thanks to our long commitment to peace in Colombia, we have very good relations with authorities, civil society and UN organisations in place. Through this network, we can support negotiations between government, trade unions and student organisations in various ways. Colombia's economy has grown rapidly in recent years, and in many respects it has moved in the right direction. The country's accession to the OECD last year is a proof of this development. At the same time, social gaps are growing and the proportion of poor people has increased dramatically in recent years. I can only say that there is an abyssed difference between Lorena Delgado Varas and my view of the role of business and trade in relations between countries. I believe that Swedish companies and trade between countries effectively contribute to an improved situation in terms of reducing gaps and contributing to sustainability. Even the much stricter rules we now have for the sustainability of companies affect these countries. Unfortunately, I do not agree here with Lorena Delgado Varas on almost any point. All over the world, the pandemic has hit those who are already the most vulnerable. This is also true in Colombia, where the majority of the population living in the informal economy has been worst affected by the consequences. Colombia is a member of the Joint Global Deal initiative of Sweden, the ILO and the OECD. The Swedish trade union movement has had and continues to have a deep commitment to Colombia for decades. This effective social dialogue can create a more economically and socially sustainable society. Sweden has recently adopted a new development cooperation with Latin America covering SEK 1 billion for 2021 – 2025. Last year, aid to Colombia amounted to SEK 298 million. All this development cooperation contributes to a more positive development in Colombia.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-292	Madam President, I would like The developments we are now seeing in Colombia are frighteningly similar to those in Brazil. Colombia is now considering buying Jas aircraft from Saab in what could be a billion-dollar deal, which Brazil did a few years ago. It is important that Sweden, as an actor for democracy and advocates of human rights, promotes democratic and peaceful development in Colombia instead of armament and tension between groups within the country. Developments in Colombia are currently negative. The government of the country is devoting resources to institutions to implement the peace agreement, while increasing military spending. It is clear that, although it already has Latin America's largest military, the state is moving towards armament. In addition, last year, in 2020, the UN has documented that 375 people were killed, including 120 human rights defenders, in what is a continuation of the historical conflicts. The last thing the people of Colombia need is a government that is arming and acting increasingly aggressively against its own population. With the pandemic, economic, ethnic and social gaps are growing and the most vulnerable are hardest hit. We also see that political tensions between Colombia and neighbouring Venezuela have increased in recent years. The Left Party believes that Sweden should promote humanitarian and conflict prevention work in Colombia. Moreover, it is not in our defence or security policy's interest to increase access to weapons in this conflict area. The government should therefore not support Saab's possible sales to Colombia but instead work for peaceful solutions in the country. Recently Saab received a delegation of Colombian politicians at its factory in Linköping. Did the government participate or help at that meeting? The government must now clearly signal an end to this arms sale. We should also change the cooperation agreement, a so-called MOU agreement, the government has with Colombia following the peace agreement, which includes this with Jas. The civil society situation is very tough. Over the past few weeks, there has been an intense smear on the part of the Colombian Government. The Colombian Government has also shown great reluctance to listen to civil society and engage in dialogue. Here, Sweden could play an important role by facilitating talks between civil society and the government and its authorities. For example, a peace conference would be needed to speed up the slow implementation of the peace agreement. Here both Sweden and the EU would help in a clear way. What started the protests this time was the Colombian Government's plans to raise taxes on the poorest in Colombia. But these revenues would have been a drop in the ocean compared to what is disappearing annually through corruption and tax evasion. Only corruption is estimated to amount to 50 billion peso. The government therefore needs, in its dialogue with the Colombian Government, to continue to raise corruption and tax evasion and, within the framework of our assistance, to strengthen the fight against corruption and tax evasion. The people should not, in addition to daily corruption, suffer from increased taxes, but here we must show solidarity with the poorest Colombians. It is good that Sweden basically has a developed and ambitious development work of SEK 1 billion. But it is important that we use our role in Latin America in general and in Colombia in particular to make our voice heard so that Drive for Democracy feels all the way into the Colombian government. If Colombia is to have long-term development cooperation with Sweden, the country will also have democracy and social justice, and above all the peace agreement will be implemented.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-304	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on all issues, and I want the Swedish Government to see the problems that our trade contributes to. Trade agreements must be changed. Business Sweden's website says that Colombia, with its political stability, sound economic policies, its large internal market and low costs, has become an interesting market for foreign investors. It's a really remarkable description of Colombia because for years social leaders have been murdered. Colombia's militarisation has increased. I last spoke this morning to Colombian activists who are in direct contact with Colombia, and they told me that the situation is unchanged. Violence has not stopped. In addition to the 70 people who have been murdered and the thousands who have been injured, a list of a further 1,271 people affected by state violence has been presented in recent days only since 11 May. The Swedish Government must mark and press to stop the violence. But that's not enough. Sweden must also ensure the legal certainty of demonstrators. We must demand that the freedom of expression of the Colombian people be respected and that those responsible for violence be punished. We see a tendency in Latin America where protests against corrupt and unequal systems are met with deadly force from the state without any consequences for those responsible and where countries like Sweden still believe that Colombia is a democracy rather than supporting the peaceful, social movements.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-309	Madam President, I would like The new strategy for Sweden's development cooperation with Colombia thus extends to 2025. Through our political engagement and development cooperation and through the large presence of Swedish civil society organisations and companies, Sweden will be a partner for peace, human rights and sustainable development in Colombia. The Colombian Armed Forces play a crucial role in the implementation of the peace agreement that exists. It is therefore important that Sweden has a close dialogue with the Colombian Armed Forces, also on human rights. It is true that the issue of fighter aircraft has been discussed between Swedish and Colombian representatives. As a minister, I cannot explain specific details and refer to the government of Saab and Colombia. I have said this in the past in this House: the export legislation adopted by Parliament for war material is among the most stringent in the world, and the strategic product aspect is the responsible licensing and regulatory authority. As regards specific trade-related issues, I refer Lorena Delgado Varas to the Minister for Trade.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-313	Madam President, I would like I note that the Foreign Minister's speeches on arms exports to Colombia have gone from being positive, both from her and the Minister for Defence Hultqvist, to referring today only to confidentiality and having had some contacts. I think the Swedish Government should be clearer about not wanting to see an arms deal with Colombia in this situation, and fortunately the Colombian Government has realised that the economy is not compatible. But it should not just be a temporary stop to these arms exports. If you want to protect the peace agreement, it should not happen at all. I have not yet received an answer on the cooperation between the Swedish and Colombian police. It is important that the government is clear about how it views this cooperation, given that the Colombian police have accounted for the high level of violence, the killing and disappearance of demonstrators. The government needs to use its channels to put pressure, but one also needs to have a strategy to one day withdraw if the Colombian police are not reformed. It is good that the government condemns the violence, but I still have no answer to the question of whether the ambassador should be called up. The Minister for Foreign Affairs describes it as an abyssed difference in the vision of Swedish companies. But it is rather an abyssed difference between Sweden's self-image and how Swedish companies in Latin America act in reality. There are many examples, both historical and contemporary, of how Swedish companies have used political situations to benefit themselves and have been part of increased repression against indigenous peoples and local communities. Clearer legislation is needed here, and it is in the pipeline – but only at European level. I believe that international pressure is crucial for the cessation of police and military violence. I hope that the Foreign Minister will take the opportunity to create that pressure on Colombia.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-319	Madam President, I would like Cooperation with the Colombian police takes place mainly through educational activities aimed at the local police. The focus is on, among other things, valuation issues, including gender equality work, within the police and methods for intervening and investigating violence in close relationships. A Swedish police advisor works on site at one of the Colombian police colleges in Bogotá. The project has contributed to the training of more than 1,300 Colombian police officers in dealing with violence against women. The current programme has been extended to 2022 as a result of the pandemic. The existing cooperation with Colombian police operates well, and the cooperation is constantly evolving and adapted to the needs of Colombian society. For further details, the interpellant may contact the Swedish police, who have a lot of information about this cooperation. I can also say that the starting point for cooperation is that the police should play a fundamental role in upholding human rights and the rule of law. Turning to the issue of peace and defence, I would like to say that the peace agreement between the Colombian Government and the Farc guerrilla group is historic and unique, and the situation is still better, even though there have been some set-backs compared to a decade ago. In addition to the broad support for implementation, Sweden has received three specific responsibilities in the peace agreement, namely gender equality, victims' rights and missing persons. In addition, we are working to support the reintegration of former guerrillas, with a particular focus on women.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-326	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce violence against Palestinians and illegal evictions and demolishment of Palestinian homes, whether I and the government believe that Israel's occupation of Palestine in the legal sense is an apartheid crime and whether I and the government intend to work to suspend the current association agreement. The Swedish Government, in line with UN and EU policies, continues its commitment to a negotiated two-state solution with two independent states living side by side in peace and security with Jerusalem as the capital of both. Israel's settlement policy, including eviction and demolishment, is contrary to international law, undermines a two-state solution and contributes to an elevated level of conflict. The High Representative of the EU for Foreign and Security Policy has consistently expressed this line. Sweden clearly conveys its message about the need for the root causes of the conflict to be addressed, the importance of a two-state solution and an end to the occupation, most recently in a speech by Sweden on behalf of the Nordic countries at the UN General Assembly. These messages are also conveyed directly to Israel. Of course, we also stand up for Israel's legitimate security needs. During the recent escalation of violence, we have been clear in condemning the indiscriminate rocket attacks on Israel and in pointing out that the country has the right to defend itself but must do its utmost to prevent civilians from being affected. Like the EU, Sweden does not use apartheid in relation to the Israeli occupation. The government believes in dialogue. We do not want to see suspension of the association agreement. The Association Agreement provides for an Association Council to take place in due course. An Association Council provides the opportunity for clear messages and for talks on issues both where we agree and where we disagree.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-332	Madam President, I would like The most prolonged ongoing conflict in the world is Israel's occupation of Palestine. Already through the process that led to the proclamation of the State of Israel in 1948, the breeding ground for today's conflict was created, when hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were expelled from their homes. Since the six-day war of 1967 Israel has occupied the Gaza Strip, the West Bank and East Jerusalem in violation of international law. The conflict is not a conflict between equals. Israel is one of the world's largest military powers whose military apparatus is supported by the United States, and it has a greater responsibility under international law as an occupying power. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that the acquis of international law, including the ban on attacks against civilians, covers all parties. Israel's occupation does not in any way excuse rocket shooting at Israel, attacks on civilian Israeli targets or Palestinian groups committing human rights violations in the Palestinian territories. Israel's violations of human rights, international law and the Palestinian people not only continue but are becoming increasingly serious. The blockade of Gaza is progressing and so is the construction of the wall that has long been condemned by the UN. The number of illegal settlements on occupied land is growing unhindered, and the expulsion of Palestinians from East Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley is increasing. No peace seems to be in sight, and as long as Israel refuses to respect the Palestinians' most basic human rights, it will not be possible to achieve peace. Through its consistent violations of international law, Israel appears to be genuinely uninterested in abrogating the occupation of Palestinian land that has been going on for decades and which is the key to a lasting peace in the Middle East. The Left Party believes that Israel must withdraw from occupied territories, that the blockade of Gaza must be broken, that settlements must be evacuated and that a free and democratic Palestinian state should be established within the 1967 borders. The starting point of the Left Party is international law and respect for human rights. That is why we have drawn attention to and condemned Israel's gross and widespread violations of human rights, both inside and outside the Riksdag. At the same time, we have not hesitated to distance ourselves from the violations of international law and human rights committed by Palestinian groups. The Left Party sees that Sweden can play a crucial role both in a future peace and reconciliation process and in building a Palestinian state formation. Sweden's recognition of Palestine as a state was an important step, and the government should be commended for that. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation. I have put today's interpellation to the Foreign Minister to lift up recent events involving Hamas rockets against Israel and Israel's military bombings of the blocked and trapped Gaza. It is also important to state that the action of Israel's military and police forces with fences around the Damascus gate, the storming of the religious site al-Aqsa Mosque and the expulsion of Palestinian families from East Jerusalem constitute a fund of events that increased the level of conflict at the end of the religious celebration of Ramadan. Adding to the disappointment at the cancellation of Palestinian parliamentary elections, it can be said that Israel's occupation of Palestine is the basis of today's problems and challenges. There is much that I and the Foreign Minister agree on around Israel and Palestine. It is by a majority consisting of the Left Party, the Government and the Center Party that Sweden is a major contributor to the refugee aid UNRWA and that Sweden's support for a two-state solution is strong. But this line is constantly challenged by the Swedish right. At the same time, the government's line often becomes tame and toothless, especially when it comes to the Israeli Government's violation of human rights.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-342	Madam President, I would like I have read the interpellation and also the answer from the Foreign Minister. I think her answer to the interpellation is essentially reasonable and good. However, I think there are a few things to add. There is a way for Hamas to acquire an exceptionally good air defence to protect both the Gaza Strip and the people there, for free. It is not to scatter rockets from the Gaza Strip into Israel. It does not cost Hamas a single shekel, dinar, crown, euros or dollars to do so, but just stop shooting rockets into Israel. But Hamas doesn't. You have to understand what kind of organisation is running the Gaza Strip. Israel had about twenty settlements there, relatively small, 7 000 settlers. They were evacuated – literally carrying out the last – almost 16 years ago, in August 2005. Two years later Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip. The Palestinian Authority was driven out of there after internal battles, and from 2007 Hamas has succeeded in starting three wars and constant clashes and confrontations with Israel. The whole economy of the Gaza Strip is turned into a war economy. Instead of using the construction machines to build houses, they are used to dig tunnels. Instead of channelling resources to the construction of health care and education, building up the area and doing something good out of the Gaza Strip, the money is used to import munitions and direct the entire economy to prepare for the next war. Instead of acting to protect children and give children a nice upbringing and so on brainwashing every new generation into a cult of death. The Palestinian resistance struggle has been perverted into a holy and eternal war against Israel, where its inhabitants, and especially the Jews, will be driven out into the Mediterranean. We all stand, I hope, for a two-state solution. That means an Israel and a Palestine that can live side by side. But Hamas' dream is a Palestine that lives on top of Israel. It's something completely different. That is why, Madam President, I think it must be quite clear that Israel does not only have a right to protect its population. Israel also has a duty to protect its population. Several billions of dollars have been invested in doing this and building Iron Dome to protect its population from rocket attacks and shelters everywhere. There has been massive investment in information for citizens, and there are various alarms. They have built up their entire healthcare system with lots of ambulances and so on. A large part is also financed through foreign donations. Madam President, I would like In this context, I think it is important to point out that Israel obviously has many responsibilities. And Israel's actions in the West Bank are in many ways under criticism. I am very critical of Israel's actions in the West Bank. However, as far as Gaza and Hamas are concerned, as long as Hamas controls the Gaza Strip, we will unfortunately, I fear, continue to see similar developments for quite some time ahead with regular wars due to Hamas's actions.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-349	Madam President, I would like The government is working within the EU and the UN to reach a long-term and sustainable solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The recent violence involving civilian deaths, not least far too many children, is appalling and demonstrates once again the importance of addressing the root causes of the conflict. The announcement of a cease-fire was welcome and necessary. Sweden is clear in its message about the importance of a negotiated two-state solution and an end to the occupation. This has, among other things, been conveyed recently in a speech by Sweden on behalf of the Nordic countries at the UN General Assembly and v i d the UN Human Rights Council Special Session on the human rights situation in Palestine. Like the EU and the other Nordic countries, Sweden does not use the apartheid concept in relation to the Israeli occupation. The government, like previous governments, has been behind the EU's long-established position on the expansion of settlements, demolishments and evictions and that they must cease. Israel's settlement policy, including the eviction of Palestinians in occupied East Jerusalem, especially in Sheikh Jarrah, is contrary to international law, undermines the two-state solution and contributes to an elevated level of conflict. The EU regularly calls on Israel to put an end to this type of action and to fulfil its obligations as an occupying power. The EU is also clear that the status quo at Haram al-Sharif-Sharif, Temple Mountain, must be maintained. We are closely following the human rights situation in both Israel and Palestine. We express our position publicly, including in the government's country reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and in the UN Human Rights Council. The situation in Israel and Palestine is, as you know, recurrent on the agenda of the EU Foreign Ministers' meetings. In these, I stress the urgency of the EU standing up for its agreed international law-based policy and welcome the active commitment and clear messages of the High Representative of the European Union to the importance of European unity behind this policy. This was most recently done at the extraordinary meeting of Foreign Ministers on 10 May and at the Gymnich meeting a few weeks later. Sweden also stands up for Israel's legitimate security needs. During the recent escalation of violence, we have been clear in condemning the indiscriminate rocket attacks on Israel. The rocket attacks by terrorist groups in Gaza against civilians in Israel must stop once and for all. Israel has the right to defend itself, but must do its utmost to ensure that civilians are not affected. The rules of humanitarian law on distinction, proportionality and prudence must be respected. The ceasefire must be consolidated and humanitarian access guaranteed in order to improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza. Sweden has decided to increase humanitarian aid. The EU is working towards lifting the isolation of Gaza. It's important. It is also important to bring about a political perspective and a process for resolving the conflict. As regards Håkan Svenneling's question on the association agreement, I replied to it in my first speech. We believe that dialogue is needed and do not want to suspend the Association Council.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-359	Madam President, I would like For a long time many have compared the way in which the Israeli Government and its authorities divide people by origin with the apartheid system in South Africa. Yet the human rights organisation Human Rights Watch's judicial review of Israel's laws, which states that it resembles apartheid, struck down with great force. Human Rights Watch concludes that the Israeli Government has demonstrated its intention to maintain Israeli domination over Palestinians throughout Israel and in the occupied Palestinian territories. Furthermore, the Palestinians have been systematically oppressed, and inhumane acts have been committed against them. Human Rights Watch believes that when these three aspects occur together, they correspond to apartheid crimes. If the government does not then choose to describe this as apartheid crime, it would be interesting to hear how the government views and describes the systematic behaviour of the abuses that occur and how the government might work to make visible and counteract this systematic repression that meets Palestinians every day. Last week there was the encouraging news that a high-level political player, and one who is ultimately responsible for countering the peace process and increasing repression of Palestinians, after 12 years in power as Prime Minister has given it up. Instead, a very broad coalition, consisting of eight parties from the right to the left, from Jewish and Arab parties, is now taking place. In the coming weeks, they will go through a difficult path to shape their government. But Benjamin Netanyahu will hardly give up in the first place. His grip on Israeli politics has been stone hair t for a long time. At the same time, the shift means that it is finally time to prosecute Netanyahu for the three corruption crimes for which he is charged, and there are more investigations into suspected crimes going on about him. It was precisely the confusion of Israeli politics and Benjamin Netanyahus's own interests that eventually led the other politicians to end up in an unlikely coalition against him. I wonder how the Foreign Minister views the political situation in Israel and what contacts the Foreign Minister has had with the new Israeli Government. Another important challenge to tackle is to hold new parliamentary and presidential elections in Palestine. It has now been a long time since the Palestinians were able to vote their leaders out. Today you may be 34 years old, almost as old as I am, and never have voted in a Palestinian election. Here the Palestinian administration, with President Abbas, bears a heavy responsibility for the situation. But the Israeli occupation is also putting a stop to the situation, partly through the detention of leading Palestinian politicians, and partly by making it more difficult for elections to be held in East Jerusalem. The pressure of the world on both Palestine and Israel will be crucial for the holding of Palestinian elections this year. Here the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a clear responsibility. I wonder how the Minister for Foreign Affairs intends to take this responsibility. The bombing of Gaza by the Israeli military led to 256 deaths, 66 of which children. This shows the lack of international law and human rights in the military, the IDF. That is why the outside world must now increase the pressure on those responsible in the Israeli military. It is time for the government and Sweden to cut ties with the Israeli military. This can easily be done by calling home our defence attaché from Tel Aviv, by stopping allowing Israel to test drones, for example, on our airports in Norrland and by imposing an arms embargo on Israel at EU level. I wonder if the Foreign Minister is going to take any action against the Israeli military?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-369	Madam President, I would like It is an extremely vulgar rhetoric that the Left Party is engaged in in this debate. One in five inhabitants of Israel has Arab origins – are Arab, or in practice Palestinians. In fact, it is the only place in the Middle East where Arabs enjoy democracy fully. A few miles away, in Syria, 10 million people have been displaced from their homes in recent years. There are no Jews there either, for they were expelled already 50 years ago. It's apartheid, though. Iraq is ethnically and religiously cleared down to stairway level. Israel is the only country that still – possibly together with Lebanon and a few other pockets in the Middle East – has a diversity and pluralism and holds free elections. Israel has so many free elections that they are held almost once every six months. This particular country says the Swedish left is the worst criminals, and it is completely ignored that everything around Israel – in practice the whole of the Middle East – is devastated, torn apart, with brutal totalitarian regimes. The whole of this rhetoric about apartheid – and I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly makes it clear that the Swedish Government does not share that view, Madam President – is to undermine relations and exchanges with Israel. This means that we should not allow Israeli researchers, for example, whether they are Jews or Arabs, to come to a symposium in Sweden and that Swedish companies should not have exchanges with Israel. In the long run, this rhetoric aims to delegitimise Israel's entire foundation as a state formation, and I am very strongly opposed to this. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for being clear in distancing himself from that.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-373	Madam President, I would like Sweden's relations with both Israel and Palestine are important issues and something that the government defends. We must, of course, be able to continue to support the UN and the EU's international law-based approach to the conflict and express criticism when international law is not respected and, at the same time, have good and constructive relations with Israel. Similarly, we must be able to criticise Palestinian action and the Palestinian authorities without jeopardising the relationship with Palestine. In our dialogue with the Palestinian Authority, we are clear on the importance of the Palestinians enjoying human rights. I recently spoke to Prime Minister Shtayyeh, both about ten days ago at a long virtual meeting and last week when we were both in Oman and had a physical meeting. I referred, among other things, to the importance of democratic elections and how important it is for them to be held in the near future in Palestine. But they must also be allowed to be held in East Jerusalem, and that is not possible if Israel does not allow it. I myself was a party political election observer at the 2006 elections and was then in Gaza. I therefore know that it is far too long ago that the Palestinians themselves have expressed their will, and I agree with Håkan Svenneling that it is important for the Palestinians to take part in real elections. The EU has an established and internationally based policy that makes a distinction between the territory of the State of Israel and that of Israel occupied territory. In accordance with UN Security Resolution 2334, the EU, including Sweden, differentiates between Israel according to the 1967 borders and Israel's occupied Palestinian territories. This approach has also been confirmed by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the origin marking of settlement products. That is the answer to that question. By the way, this issue was also reflected in the application of the EU's association agreement with Israel. I was asked by Håkan Svenneling how we view the Israeli government. Well, it's so new that we haven't had time to have any contacts, but I hope so. I still hope that I will be invited to Israel; I very much hope that we can have constructive talks. But I must nevertheless express how pleased I am that Isaac Herzog was elected President of Israel. It is the former leader of the Labour Party and a very constructive man who is prepared for dialogue both with those who feel the same and with those who disagree on different issues. I think that is a very positive step for the dialogue that I think must exist. We are also looking for the development of EU cooperation with Palestine, and we support the start of negotiations on a full EU-Palestinian association agreement.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-380	Madam President, I would like We can note from today's debate that the government is not in favour of a bad policy. In my opinion, the problem is that it is not good enough. The silk mittens are still on when it comes to criticism of the Israeli Government and its military violations of international law and human rights, especially when it comes to doing more than just saying words and showing actual action. There is still no information on how to cut ties with the Israeli military. The Left Party has a number of proposals on how to do that, and I think the first and most concrete measure would be to call home the defence attaché from Tel Aviv. At the same time, we are in an interesting political position with a new Israeli government, which means an opportunity for the Swedish government to renew its commitment to a two-state solution so that we get to both an Israeli and a Palestinian state to end the world's longest ongoing occupation. Fredrik Malm was looking for me around this with apartheid. The aim is to demonstrate the systematic nature of the oppression that meets Palestinians in their lives on a daily basis. I remember, for example, times when I have passed through check points in Palestine, between Betlehem and Jerusalem. It's like being a cattle animal. You're pushed through a check-point where it's played high music, and it's the same song on the repeat to kind of drive you crazy. We can also look at the discrimination faced by Arabs living in Israel and being Israeli citizens. They are structurally discriminated against by giving priority to their societies. Roads are not being fixed up. You'll notice when you've turned into an Arab-dominated area compared to an Israeli. It creates divisions even in Israel. That is why I am very pleased with the government's policy, but I think it could be even better. Nevertheless, I am grateful for this debate today, and we will also come back to this issue in a special debate next week.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-386	Madam President, I would like Let me say that I am also pleased with this interpellation debate, for which Håkan Svenneling just thanked me. I also appreciate that Fredrik Malm participated in it, because I think it is important that we discuss these issues in the Swedish Parliament. I also look forward to the debate on the Middle East that we will have later in June. The continuing expansion of settlements in international law, the forced displacement of Palestinian families from their homes, the demolition of Palestinian homes and the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure must stop. As long as the occupation continues, Israel has special obligations and responsibilities as an occupying power. These will continue to remind the UN and the EU, and hence the government, as long as necessary. Similarly, criticism will continue to be voiced when violations of international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights, are committed. There is no doubt that meaningful peace negotiations must come about and that the conflict must be brought to an end. In order to build a sustainable and fair peace between Israel and Palestine, the needs, rights and security of both parties must be taken into account. The government continues to contribute in various ways, both politically and through aid, to the two-state solution and to ending occupation, violence and terrorism. We believe in dialogue also in a context where everyone around the table is not in agreement. A long-term solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is only to be found in a negotiated two-state solution based on international law, where Israel and Palestine can coexist in peace and security, with Jerusalem as the capital of both states.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-391	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev has asked me whether there are any cuts in expenditure that the government is prepared to implement in order to prioritise funds for the core business of welfare and whether there is any tax that the government is not prepared to raise. First of all, I would like to point out that the government has changed the course for Swedish politics. During the 2014 – 2018 term, the government implemented investments in health care, schools and care that amounted to over SEK 35 billion. The government has continued with strong reinforcements even during the current term of office. When Sweden was hit by the coronapandemia, there were 100,000 more people working in welfare, and in the budget bill for 2021 the government contributed more than SEK 30 billion to the municipal sector. However, welfare needs to be further strengthened; not least the pandemic has put in lightning. Dennis Dioukarev points out that the government has implemented tax increases in the environmental field. However, it is not clear from Dennis Dioukarev's question that the tax increases are part of a powerful green tax shift, where increased environmental taxes are exchanged for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Tax reductions included in the exchange are, for example, reduced income tax for persons in certain sparsely populated areas and tax reductions for earned income with emphasis on low and medium income. Economic instruments are a way of transforming society into environmentally friendly ones and helping more people to make climate-smart choices in their everyday lives. Sweden should go ahead and show that a fossil-free world is possible and can be reconciled with a high standard of living. The budgetary process is currently under way in the Government Office. The priorities set by the Government and its partner parties for the coming years will be reflected in the budget proposal for 2022, which will be submitted to the Riksdag in September. The government conducts a responsible fiscal policy. A clear demonstration of this is that the consolidated general government gross debt was low before the pandemic and that after the pandemic it is estimated to be lower in Sweden than it was in most countries of the European Union before the pandemic. The government is, of course, prepared to implement, if necessary, expenditure reductions as well as expenditure increases and tax reductions as well as tax increases. However, there are a number of taxes that the government does not intend to raise or reintroduce – the property tax is one such example.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The government has recently announced a number of tax increases on savings and investments. It intends to increase the tax on entrepreneurship and to introduce a new pensioner's tax in the form of tax on pension savings. This new pensioner tax, the seriousness of that reform and the impact this will have on future pensioners deserve a very own discussion. Initially, I had thought that this interpellation would be about tax increases on savings and investments, but then it occurred to me that this is probably not what people in the cabins actually want answers for. I and the Minister of Finance can talk about capital taxes here and there and about appropriate levels of this, and we can have our differences. However, I think that there is another question that needs to be asked. I think the basic question that people want answers to is why the money is not enough. Why must ever new taxes be introduced and existing taxes increased? These are electronic taxes, a new pensioner's tax, plastic bag tax, electricity tax, a planned tax on clothing and shoes, and so on. The Minister of Finance is talking about tax shifting and reducing taxes on jobs with emphasis on low and medium income. This is, of course, a good thing. It also sounds suspicious like what the Swedish Democrats have presented in budget motion after budget motion, although I am not familiar with the Government's proposal in detail, so it is possible that we have a consensus there. But what about everything else — all the other tax increases? In addition to the tax charges that I have listed, Sweden already has a capital tax that is slightly above the OECD average, but it should therefore be increased even further if the Social Democrats are allowed to decide. A new pensioner's tax is to be introduced, and the tax on savings has already been increased twice. All this happens when Sweden already has the world's fourth highest tax burden. If high taxes had solved all the world's problems, Sweden would not have had any problems at first. I think the Minister of Finance understands where I want to go. We may disagree with these things and with tax policy. You might think that all of this is good. One may think that the electronic tax, which made Christmas presents a thousand grand more expensive for all families with children, is good – it is up to the Social Democrats. However, I believe that the question on everyone's lips in this context is: how can we have an inadequate tax levy when Sweden has one of the world's highest tax burdens? In fact, I find it provocative that there is a discrepancy between how much people pay in taxes and what people get back. Why do we have an underfunded justice system? Why don't our cops pay more? Why has Swedish homelessness increased fastest in the Nordic countries? Why do we have pensioners picking cans? Why do we have record-long queues for bup? Why do we have such long medical queues that people die waiting for surgery? There is a lack of money for welfare, but when EU countries with weak budgetary discipline need SEK 150 billion, the government puts its wallet on the table right away. These are the questions to which everyone wants answers, and it is not a question of the right or the left, Madam President. This is not about tax cuts against tax increases, it is about what you pay to the state and what you get back. At the moment, the highest number of poor pensioners in Europe, the third lowest police density in Europe and the highest shootings in Europe at the price of the fourth highest tax burden in the world. That is what this debate is about.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-407	Madam President, I would like I'm standing here as Minister of Finance. Several of the proposals that Dennis Dioukarev refers to are, of course, proposals that a working party in the Social Democratic Party has submitted in a background report to the Social Democratic Party Executive Board and have nothing to do with the proposals that the government has put forward so far – only so that we have order and order of fact. The taxes that Dennis Dioukarev mentions, such as plastic bag tax, the taxes on clothing and shoes and the chemicals tax, are part of the green tax shift. This is not, therefore, a question of tax increases that go to fund the great needs of welfare, but these tax revenues have gone directly towards reducing other taxes. It is mainly income tax that has been reduced for families with children – especially for those living in sparsely populated areas. Dennis Dioukarev finds it worrying that our capital tax is not on the OECD average or, I would guess, below that. But if you are to have taxes according to the OECD average, you can also have a welfare according to the OECD average. What do we get in Sweden that we do not have in an average European country? Let me start by mentioning the most obvious thing: care for the elderly. A lot of countries do not have a jointly funded elderly care and home care in the way we have in Sweden. This is an area that will require a great deal of funding in the coming years, as the 40s, who have been working and working for a very long career, come up in their 80s. It is a matter of great age and, of course, they have the right to a safe old age. We also have parental insurance that is much better than in many other countries and a study funding system that is much more generous. In addition, child benefits are better than in many other countries. As far as pensioners are concerned, we have a long-term sustainable pension system in a way that many other countries do not have. That being said, it delivers far too low pensions. That is precisely why those who have worked a very long career but still have a low pension now in September will finally be able to receive a pension supplement in addition to the other improvements that have been made, such as increased housing allowances and improved guarantee pensions. The government has shown great ambition to improve the economy of our pensioners, and I see in my view that we Social Democrats will continue to work on this.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-414	Madam President, I would like My view is that Magdalena Andersson also represents the Social Democratic Party as Minister of Finance and should therefore be able to comment on Social Democratic proposals, or am I wrong? If I am not mistaken, both the Finance Minister and Stefan Löfven have already commented on the proposals of the working group in the media. I do not understand the problem and why it should not be possible to comment on it in this House too. Then my question was not about the exchange of taxes. If I wanted to talk about the change of taxes, I would have made an interpellation about it. I have raised a number of different taxes. I have mentioned the capital tax, which according to a recent report from Timbro is in place number five within the OECD. That is what I have asked my question. My question is primarily about the Swedish tax burden and not about the green tax shift. Then the Minister for Finance makes it sound like it is not the Social Democrats who have ruled this country for 53 of the last 70 years. This fact can't get around no matter how you twist it and turn it around. Whatever you think of modern Sweden, today's Sweden is a product of Social Democratic politics. That is what my basic question is about. I think self-criticism is a virtue and something that one should have more of in politics, and Swedish politics in particular. I would like to give the Minister of Finance a chance to discuss the responsibility of the Social Democrats for today's society, the responsibility of the Social Democrats for the record-long care queues, the responsibility of the Social Democrats for an under-funded judiciary and the responsibility of the Social Democrats for having illegal immigrants sheltered their heads while some pensioners who worked their whole lives end up on the street. I would like to hear a reflection on this.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-418	May I remind the honourable Member that interpellations concern the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. This includes, among other things, the way in which government ministers formulate proposals as government rapporteurs, positions in command cases, fulfilment of mandates to negotiate with other countries and organisations, and informal contacts with government-subsidised authorities. This is based on the handbook we all have, the Parliamentary Handbook, and the base from the government form.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-419	Madam President, I would like In addition to this, Dennis Dioukarev said in his first speech that new proposals for capital taxes had come from the government, and it has not. Dennis Dioukarev also says that his interpellation is not about the green exchange of taxes. But now Dennis Dioukarev mentioned three taxes that are part of the green tax exchange as examples of taxes that the government has raised. I would like to stress that this is part of a shift and not a total increase in taxes. As far as welfare, the rule of law, infrastructure and other parts of our joint operating funding are concerned, I see that we have a great need for funding in the coming years because we have a great deal of work ahead of us. I mentioned earlier care for the elderly. But we also need to improve our infrastructure. The government also has big plans to expand the police. Then, of course, the justice chain also needs to be strengthened. Here it is a problem that during their years the Alliance Government reduced the tax by 140 billion, which of course affects the overall funding for the very important tasks we have and things that we do together, such as elderly care or pensions. It is clear that it affects funding opportunities. There are further ideas of further tax cuts from the parties with which the Swedish Democrats intend to cooperate. The question for the whole cooperation between the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats is how they think they can finance welfare with extensive tax cuts. It is in addition to the fact that the Swedish Democrats are well the party that has gone the farthest of the Swedish parties in terms of whether the richest could contribute a little more to raising pensions for those who have worn out a very long working life. There, the Swedish Democrats even think it is disgusting to let them contribute more to the common. I am of a different opinion. I think that would be good for society and the financing of welfare.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-424	Madam President, I would like You may correct me if I am wrong, but I was interrupted in my previous speech. I was not finished in my last speech. I wonder if I could get some extra time. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: The honourable Member may be clearer. The first of the honourable Member's speeches ended without a marker or with a thank you. When the honourable Member did not proceed in his second speech, I interpreted it as the same conclusion as in the previous speech. I therefore gave the floor to the Minister for Finance. It is important to mark. I'm waiting for a moment to give you some time to think about it. If nothing else is said, I believe that the speech is closed. It is not possible to make this type of addition with extra time. I apologise, but the honourable Member may be clearer about marking when the speech is closed. ) Madam President, I would like I understand it was a misunderstanding. It was my art break that created the problem. I will settle for my two-minute speaking time. It's okay. As far as the relevance of what I said is concerned, everything I've talked about is in my interpellation. I can quote directly from my interpellation. It says that the question is why there is a discrepancy between what is being taxed and what the Swedish taxpayers get back. Swedish welfare has the high level of taxation despite large holes in the form of underfunded justice, long medical queues and a pandemic that has exposed the shortcomings of elderly care. In terms of tax cuts, the Swedish democrats' tax cuts go to those with the lowest income. Those with the lowest incomes get the most in their wallets with Swedish democratic politics. As the Minister mentioned in his opening speech, the Social Democrats also seem to think that this is a good policy. We may still have some kind of common view on these issues. I think it is a bit of a hypocrisy to highlight the policy of the Swedish Democrats in the way that the Minister for Finance does when it is in fact the Social Democrats who lower the tax on the richest. It abolishes the military tax for the richest. I have nothing against it in principle. But not with the holes that Swedish welfare has. When it comes to strengthening the local government sector, it is a fact that the Swedish democrats are at a higher level than the government. I have an excerpt in this House because I suspected it would come up. That is quite clear. Thank you!
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-431	Madam President, I would like There are many needs in Sweden for which additional resources would be needed. I am thinking, not least, of our pensioners who have worked a very long career but who still have too low pensions. I am thinking of care for the elderly, which obviously needs to be strengthened. I'm thinking about the staff running and working. It's trying to do its very best. But they still don't have time for that little extra thing like holding their hand and maybe drinking a cup of coffee with our older ones. We look at the medical queues that have been built up during the Corona crisis and that need to be grazed at a rapid pace. We have the children at school who need more education now that they have had digital education under the coronapndemine and may need to pick up again. We need to continue to strengthen the police and the judiciary and not least ensure that there is also money to work preventively in a way that we do not do today. Against this background, the possibility has been discussed that the very richest could contribute a little more to the common. It's about the millionaires and the multimillionaires. I think it is a perfectly reasonable proposal to discuss. But here we are far from the Swedish Democrats because when the idea that the rich should contribute comes up, the Swedish Democrats say that they think it is disgusting. I think it is very far from how the Swedish people perceive it.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-437	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me how I feel about introducing compulsory language preschools for children of new arrivals and whether I intend to take any steps to introduce a compulsory language preschool for children of new arrivals. Preschool plays an important role in children's comprehensive development and helps to create a level playing field for school start-up. The Government therefore decided on 24 October 2019 that a special investigator would make proposals aimed at increasing the participation in preschool among children in their three to five years of age and propose how the preschool's work with children's language development in Swedish can be strengthened, including with regard to newly arrived children. The study presented its mission on 23 November 2020 in the report Preschool for all children – for better language development in Swedish (SOU 2020:67). The report describes research that shows precisely the positive effects of preschool on children's development and learning. The study notes, among other things, that there is a broad consensus in the research that preschools have the greatest importance for children with a weak socio-economic background. In addition, the study states that several studies show that children who have attended preschool have better linguistic skills than other children. The report has been referred, and the investigation proposal is now being prepared within the Government Office. The questions of a compulsory language preschool for children of new arrivals will be taken care of in that work.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. Madam President, I would like Language is the key to integration. Sweden has had a high level of immigration for several decades. We have had the impression that immigrants are a homogeneous group, but they are not. They come from different cultures and countries and have different educational backgrounds. This affects children's schooling. If you come from a family where one or both parents are academics, you are more likely to succeed in school than if none of them are. When it comes to language preschool, we look at what it looks like in Sweden. We have areas where there are hardly any children with two Swedish-born parents. By Swedish-born parents I mean those who have Swedish as their mother tongue. Learning the Swedish language is not easy. The language comes from home when the parents communicate with the child. In Sweden, we do not have a language requirement for parents when they come here, to obtain a residence permit or citizenship. What does that mean? Well, the chances of children learning Swedish at school are even less. My personal involvement in this matter is due to the fact that I do not have Swedish as my native language. But I was lucky to have teachers who made demands. At the time there were actually some students in the classroom who had Swedish as their native language. Today, there are not only in one but in a number of areas in Sweden schools where no one has Swedish as their mother tongue, except perhaps the teachers themselves. That is why this is incredibly important. We know that the sooner children learn a language, the sooner they take it to heart. Today we see that school is in fact the only way out of the parents' social vulnerability, away from crime. We have to start from the age of three, that is, have a compulsory language preschool so that children get the tools they do not get from home to enable a better future – for themselves and the residential area they live in, but also for society as a whole. What we're doing right now is throwing away a lot of human capital. We produce an alienation – what we say we want to reduce. But we also know that the key to successful schooling is to know the language in which you are taught and which will then be used in working life, i.e. the Swedish language. Swedish is complicated. You don't write the same way you do when you talk. And in Sweden we have underestimated the Swedish language – to know aesthetic Swedish. You don't get too far at talking what's called suburban Swedish. Today we see a language segregation, with reduced knowledge of the Swedish language. And what happens when children start in Swedish school is that they sit as question marks in the classrooms. No one says to them that they do not know good enough Swedish, because there is a lack of demands in Sweden; we want to be nice. I have a question. I have read the investigator's answer, which says that the municipalities should offer language preschools. Why should municipalities not make it mandatory and ensure that we lift these areas? It is not just an area we are talking about, but there are several areas where language is lacking.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Arin, for the passionate plea for an equal and equal school! Arin Karapet really points to a very important problem, namely the increasing segregation in Swedish school and the fact that we sometimes encounter schools where all children who play in the school yard go in and have teaching in Swedish but do not speak Swedish in the school yard, because there are not enough children with Swedish as their mother tongue. This development the government wants to break, and the government has come up with a number of proposals to address in depth the major problems of the increasing segregation. So far, the Moderates have taken a very cold stand on those proposals, but after this passionate plea, I hope for a change from the Moderates on that point. Arin Karapet also speaks warmly about the importance of preschool. I can only agree. The Swedish preschool, where children together play and learn both the language and other skills and knowledge, is a fantastic institution. It is an establishment where municipalities not only should but should offer space to all children. During the time of this government, we have invested a lot in preschool. Looking at the statistics, we see that today we have smaller groups of children than we had a few years ago. We also see that we have decided on a new curriculum for preschool, where children's language development has been stressed much more clearly than was the case in the old curriculum. We have also ensured that there are proper state subsidies – today they are up to 350 million – for a language lift in preschool. We have also expanded the successful initiative Reading Lift with modules dealing with reading and language development in preschool. Last but not least, we have worked with competence development. As Arin Karapet surely knows, we also see an educational segregation in the various preschools in Sweden. In pre-schools in vulnerable areas it is often the case that staff are not adequately trained and are not qualified preschool teachers or trained child care workers to the same extent as in preschools in more prosperous areas. It is therefore very important that we also invest in ensuring that the staff have good opportunities to work with the children's language development. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that aesthetic Swedish, as Mr Arin calls it, is an expression that does not appear in the school's policy documents. In Sweden and in Swedish schools and preschools, children should learn the same Swedish language, no matter what home you have, which school you go to or which part of Sweden you live in. This is clearly stated in our policy papers – in curricula and curricula – and that is how it should be, of course. I welcome Mr Arin's interest in this issue and the deep commitment with which he deals with it. I look forward to this deep commitment being followed by concrete proposals from the Moderates that are about ensuring that children should have good opportunities to learn Swedish throughout Sweden.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-457	Madam President, I would like I have read the investigator's answer, which is characteristic of our approach to things in Sweden in general. We're going to have an outreach business. Yes, a municipality like Botkyrka may be able to have outreach activities. They have a manager and a municipal management that takes it very seriously. A nearby municipality such as Salem may not have the resources and employees to complete this – etc. The problem is it always gets fuzzy. It shouldn't depend on which municipality a child grows up in. We have language deficiencies in Rinkeby, in Botkyrka, in Angered, in Hjällbo, in Rosengård, in Trollhättan – one by one, in different parts of our country. It shall be uniform. If we're going to have an equal and equal school, it's going to be equal for everyone. Then it should not depend on having outreach activities. It sounds great, but we know it won't hit right everywhere. It is better to make it mandatory. The municipalities should offer, but what do we do with the children whose parents we cannot reach or refuse to send their children to preschool? You say you want school duty from the age of five. Then we know that these children will fall behind in their language development. Then we'll have to wait until the age of five. It is better to have a compulsory language preschool from the age of three for children to newly arrived and children in vulnerable areas. Let's do them a favor. They get the tool they lack and will not get from their homes. What we also know is that too many children with foreign background fail in Swedish school. The results are seen in primary and secondary schools. What's happening is that we get frictions in our society. The children end up in an identity crisis. They do not know for themselves whether to call themselves Swedes or the ethnic origin of their parents. These children are the adults of tomorrow. The day they're grown up, I'm old. They're the coming generation. The reason why I am involved in this issue has to do with what I said about aesthetic Swedish. It wasn't about us sending it into any curriculum or anything, but it matters. I've come across it myself. When you talk on the phone, people say, "What was your name?" You speak really nice Swedish. Yes, I have a foreign background, I say. I'm Armenian from Iran. I speak five languages. I don't look like you, but we can communicate with each other. When you talk over the phone, you get anonymized. We value this very highly in Sweden, but we don't talk about it. The problem with politics and the problem at school is that we should just follow this plan that we agree on. It's great, but what happens to the person out there? Language is the key to integration. I don't understand why we should be mucky. It is about putting down the foot off all parties at some point and saying: The right to the Swedish language we all agree on. You should speak correctly Swedish if you come here as a child or if you are born in Sweden, because it benefits us all. The only thing that binds us together in Sweden is the language. When we can communicate with each other, we can also solve all the problems we experience.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-465	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I do not really know what Mr Arin is really after. Mr Arin has a passionate and, I think, very well-worded speech about the importance of the provisions that exist for everyone. At the same time, he notes, like me, that no matter how nicely we have expressed ourselves in school law, regulations, curricula, curricula, preschool guidance documents and school control documents, we have a reality that does not really follow the fine words. My answer to this is to work on this reality – ensure that there are outreach activities, ensure that there is competence development and ensure that we address the problems that are at the root of the excessive division between us and judgment and between those who have Swedish as their mother tongue and those who do not. We must get to the bottom of the segregation that exists in Swedish schools and preschools. That is what we are doing, Madam President, through changes in school governance. There are proposals in the pipeline that I very much hope the Moderates can consider being positive about. So far, it's been a cold hand. The school groups have taken a stand rather than the children's side. But now that we see that the tough, clear and firm expressions that we have in our governance documents do not reach all the way out, it is obvious to me, Madam President, that we should work with all the tools we have in our toolbox. An important such tool is outreach and competence development, ensuring that there is knowledge for those who work in school – both about what the curriculum, guidance documents and other things contain, and how to work with language development and use preschool pedagogy to ensure that children receive a rich language. Here, Madam President, we have problems. A survey of children's language development carried out in 2018 – in Bishopsgården in Gothenburg it was that time, but it could certainly have been somewhere else – showed that 75 per cent of children did not have the expected language development that children in Sweden should have in their four to five years of age. This is a real problem. My way and the government's way of solving this problem is to review what legislation we have but also to use the support for staff that it can mean actually getting a good competence development in how to work language development in preschool. Education is needed here, and there is education to be provided. But there is also a need for clarity in legislation which I hope more than my party can support in Parliament. Last but not least, I would like to mention a small detail of what Mr Arin says. Mr Arin talks well about the introduction of a compulsory language preschool for children of newcomers and children in vulnerable areas. Everyone who has read Lotta Edholm's interesting study sees that an obligatory that applies to certain groups in Sweden but not to others, a division based on ethnicity or origin, is problematic in relation to the discrimination legislation that we have and which also, Madam President, exists in many other European countries. We must take this into account. We cannot simply ignore the fact that in the legislation we are encountering quite a lot of problems, something that Lotta Edholm has investigated thoroughly and at the bottom. It is easy to stand in Parliament's pulpit and say that we should have special legislation for children of newly arrived and vulnerable people. It is much more difficult to write such legislation.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-473	Madam President, I would like There has not been a legislative referral yet, but we can look at the referrals that have come from the various referral bodies. The investigator therefore proposes that municipalities should be obliged to carry out outreach activities in order to increase participation in pre-school activities – outreach activities, great. Then it is mandatory for municipalities to offer preschools to children. That is precisely the problem: one should offer. When you offer something, someone can say no. Whose interest should we take into account — the interest of children or the interest of parents? Again: Offer means that someone can turn down. We're not talking about single children with foreign background. Immigration to Sweden is so large that many do not realize the consequences it has led to. You meet children in Sweden who are born and raised here but who cannot communicate even in simple Swedish. Then we can stand in this Chamber and talk about this and that and that. But they pay the price. That's the thing about the obligatory. Children in vulnerable areas do not enjoy the same privileges. They do not encounter children of Swedish-born parents. Already there we have made a difference. Already there we have a segregation. They do not have the same opportunities as the children in Bromma or the children in Vällingby, because they do not come into contact with the Swedish language. That is why my question is: why do we not make it compulsory and for the sake of the children? We shouldn't do that for someone else who thinks this is a little fuzzy or offended. These children are the adults of tomorrow, and they are also part of Sweden.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-478	Madam President, I would like That's it. Children growing up in Sweden should have access to a rich Swedish language. There should be no difference in Swedish school when it comes to having high expectations and setting high demands for good language development. All children in Swedish schools must have this opportunity and obligation regardless of their origin, regardless of their place of residence and regardless of which school they go to, which parents they were born of and which language they speak at home at the kitchen table. Access to a rich language is something that the Swedish school should give to all children. My attitude is that we should use all the tools we have in the toolbox to make sure that these fine words become reality in every part of Sweden, every schoolyard and every child in every family. We do this through a clear curriculum and clear legislative texts. We do so by ensuring that there is access to a high-quality preschool throughout our country, but we also do so by ensuring that there is outreach and competence development. The preschool teachers and children's nurses who work in the preschools where very few children, if any, have Swedish who speak languages at home at the kitchen table should have a really good competence development and education in how to teach all children a good Swedish language. I must say that I am very clear about the idea that we would have different requirements or different types of Swedish depending on the place in which we live. In Sweden, everyone speaks Swedish, and in Sweden, all children must have the right to learn Swedish in preschool and school regardless of where they live, regardless of which family they were born in and no matter what place they happen to be raised in. Madam President, I would like The government will continue its work to strengthen preschool and strengthen preschool's language development methods. It is a very important work for all of us who care about a Sweden that stays together.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-482	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether the government will add another mission for Swedish education as proposed by her and whether the government will guarantee that all women and girls attending folk high schools receive an education where women's liberation and individual freedom are not violated. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked me whether the government will guarantee that honour and honour standards are not maintained in Swedish schools. Initially, I want to make it clear that there should be no place whatsoever for honour-related violence and oppression and its various forms of expression in society. This is particularly true in education and education. The state formulates general objectives and objectives for the activities financed by the state contribution to the formation of people. The state's support for peoples' education is aimed, among other things, at strengthening democracy, enabling a greater diversity of people to influence their life situation, helping to smooth out educational gaps and increasing participation in cultural life. The Board of the Folkbildningsrådet decides on the detailed conditions for the distribution of the grant based on the government's governance of the state grant. These conditions provide, inter alia, for folk high schools and student associations to convey and anchor respect for human rights and for fundamental democratic values. The grant conditions also emphasise the work on gender equality issues. For example, for folk high schools, it is stated that schools through their activities will contribute to ensuring that everyone regardless of gender has the same power to shape society and their lives. The model for the distribution of state grants to peoples' education is based on confidence in the actors of peoples' education to prioritise, implement and control their activities on their own. It is crucial that both the Folkbildningsrådet and folkhögskolan and student associations take this responsibility and ensure that state aid is used properly. The state grant must go exclusively to activities that strengthen our common democracy. Several measures are currently being taken to strengthen the control of state subsidies. For example, the Government has concluded that the Folkbildningsrådet for 2021's activities will re-report an in-depth assessment of the state grant's so-called democratic purpose. The Folkbildningsrådet shall also report in particular how the Council works to ensure that the activities financed by the state grant convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental values of society. The Folkbildningsrådet has also been part of the Government's development programme Gender mainstreaming in public authorities, J I M. Within the framework of JIM, the Council for Folkbildningsrådet works, among other things, to strengthen the systematic and integrated gender equality work of study associations and folk high schools. With regard to the question of whether the government will guarantee that honour repression and standards of honour are not maintained in Swedish schools, I would like to emphasise that this is a priority for the government. The political agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party shows that the school's work against honour-related violence and oppression will increase. The government has therefore taken a number of measures over the past year. The Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to strengthen the systematic work against honour-related violence and oppression within the school system. The Government has also decided on new curriculum texts for comprehensive school, upper secondary school and adult education to strengthen teaching in sexuality, consent and relationships. In conclusion, Madam President, I cannot stress enough that all pupils, participants in adult education and other students, regardless of gender and origin, have the right to secure and inclusive education. All actors involved in education and training have a responsibility to ensure this.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-491	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. It is important and good that after so many years of pressure there are now control mechanisms, but at the same time, unfortunately, we have to note that it is not always possible to control everything afterwards. Most recently today it was a programme in Swedish Radio about the review of preschools and schools. Owners are replaced when they are found, school names are changed and hundreds of millions of tax crowns are paid out and go to various extremist and religious organizations. It is now the seventh year with this Social Democratic Government, and I have put several interpellations to various ministers about precisely the people's education and the means that people's education is given. Many people in public education work, I have to say, very well and for equality and equal value, but unfortunately there are also many who do not. One example is Ibn Rushd's schools in Gothenburg. Recently they did not receive 800 000 SEK, which was a completely correct decision by the blue team plus the Social Democrats in Gothenburg. But this is not the case for all activities. There should be no need for digging journalists and terrorist scientists to investigate schools that are suspected of being investigated. The Swedish National Agency for Education or the Swedish School Inspectorate should be involved, and the policy should then dare to make its own decisions. I think what the Minister for Education is pointing out here about the existence of control mechanisms is good, but my question is about the report on democracy conditions for all civil society activities. Has the Minister failed to enter it, or is it something separate? I believe that this is part of civil society, and there are also four very good aims, but I am doubtful about one of those that says that one should maintain the culture of excellence. Is it Saudi Arabia's culture, Swedish culture or Kurdish culture? Why should there be such unclear wording? They only create fluffy goals, and the purpose is affected because they make there are people who say that you can operate in accordance with your culture and religion. I think that Swedish education and education should be based on the fundamental principles of equal value for all and human rights, individual rights, children's rights and, not least, women's rights. It's missing today. I myself have a lot of contact with many adult women who do not dare to be free women in Swedish schools. It's distressing. I therefore wonder whether we will have conditions for democracy here or not.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-497	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for the interpellation and for this important debate. I will mention some of the points raised by Amineh Kakabaveh in his speech. Let me begin with the democratic condition that Amineh Kakabaveh points out. That is how it is; Swedish education, like other activities supported by the state, should of course be based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It's easy to say. But as the reality and the many press clippings that Amineh Kakabaveh shows up here, it is not always as easy to uphold the fine principles. Like Amineh Kakabaveh, I am convinced that these principles are upheld in the activities of the vast majority of our study associations and in our folk high schools. And that is not enough, Madam President, but it is being strengthened. Throughout history, our folk education, our study associations and our folk high schools have played and still play a very important role in ensuring that we in Sweden not only have democracy on paper but also develop our democratic society. That is precisely why it upsets me all the way to the marrow when our peoples' education funds go to things that do not strengthen our democracy. The investigation that Amineh Kakabaveh asked about concerns precisely the conditions of democracy. I think we'd all hoped it could be finished by now. However, the government has given it an extended mandate and has raised something in it that I think Amineh Kakabaverh is very pleased with: the possibility of having a deeper and strengthened cooperation with, for example, the Security Service on how to work to maintain the democratic condition. That is the reason for the extension, I think Amineh Kakabaveh is satisfied with. I can see from her nods that this is the case. Amineh Kakabaveh also addresses the very outrageous abuses that have been revealed in some of our preschools, our educational care and our schools. It is about frequent change of ownership and owners who show that there is reason for society to have tougher regulations. We have also tightened up those rules, Madam President. It is thanks to the rules that the government has proposed that we now have more opportunities to close schools and preschools run by owners who, for example, do not have pure flour in the bag in relation to previous activities. But like Amineh Kakabaveh, I have concluded that it is not enough. We need to have even clearer rules for which schools and preschools should be allowed to run. That is why the government has commissioned and received a report from an investigation proposing clearer rules on educational care. We have also entered into our January agreement commitments that will mean that we will come back with proposals for clearer rules on which schools and preschools should be allowed to run. It is not a human right to run a school in Sweden, but it is a human right to receive education based on human rights. Madam President, I would like A great deal of work is under way to ensure that the beautiful words of the School Act, the form of government and the provisions on grants that exist if our education is to become a reality. And I will continue to work to ensure that the money to be spent on education actually goes to education and culture and not to other things.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-505	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister of Education Anna Ekström! I am certainly one of those who have been pushing for 13 years that we must have these conditions of democracy, but also that there should be more control mechanisms. It is about the good memory of taxpayers, but we politicians also have a great responsibility not least for education and training. That is where you learn to shape your own life and to enrich yourself with the greatest capital: education and education. It is extremely important in terms of our adult education, for example for me and hundreds of thousands of other women who come from other parts of the world and have never had the chance to go to school, that all SFIs, folk high schools and other adult education should not be run by individuals who have no purpose other than religious fanaticism. This is not just about Islamic fundamentalists. There are also Christian folk high schools where the rights of the individual are violated, where the rights of girls and homosexuals are violated and where it is taught that homosexuality is a disease. It has occurred and occurs. You can listen to Hederspodden to hear many young Swedish children talk about the horror they have experienced in such schools. It's mostly for girls and women. Our equality should not just be on paper. Our gender equality must permeate every activity in the areas of childcare, education and adult education, which is the subject of this debate. There are many who agree with me. I collaborate with several folk high schools, including the folk high schools of the Labour Movement, where we conduct the honorary course. There many adult women tell how terrible it has been to go to another folk high school where, for example, you can't dress as you want, hang out with those you want or even sit next to who you want. You are constantly being controlled, and there are moral policemen reporting. I mean, schools like that shouldn't exist. It's not just about them not getting money. They're not supposed to be in our system. They are detrimental to our democracy, to our equality, to the rights of the individual and to the rights of women. In our home countries – in large parts of the world, all the way from Asia to the Middle East and Africa – we have learned that we are nothing, that we should not be heard and not be seen. In Swedish schools, honorary standards, honorary oppression, should not be maintained. This also leads to crimes of honour. A lot of people get hit at home. It is not easy, especially for adult women, to tell the school. It's taboo. We know it's taboo to tell you about violence. And it's even worse for the honorable. That's why those schools shouldn't exist. They should not only be examined, but the activities that are not carried out in a way that is compatible with Swedish legislation should not exist. I would therefore like to ask why the Minister for Education does not agree with me about introducing the fifth objective of freedom of the individual, about combating oppression of honour and about women's rights being at the centre.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-514	Madam President, I would like For many years I have admired Amineh Kakabaveh's struggle for honoured women and her tireless struggle to put an end to the oppression of honour in Sweden. When I hear this speech, I am also happy about what Amineh Kakabaveh tells me about his cooperation with folk high schools and work to ensure that people in the world of folk high school live up to the demands of our education: that they should be a tool for democracy and for people's rights, not least women's rights. For the purposes of Swedish education, these values are clearly stated. I also assume that this is something that Amineh Kakabaveh and her colleagues are helping to put the light on. This also applies to the misconceptions that exist. I fully agree that it should not just be the media that reports about the errors that Amineh Kakabaveh tells us about. We shall be able to ensure that such errors are also reported within the system. I assume that this will also happen when Amineh Kakabaveh becomes aware of errors. I would like to take this opportunity to stress how important it is for us to ensure that the Swedish school – from preschool, educational care up to adult education and education – maintains the values on which the Swedish school and the values on which Swedish education is based. It is about people's rights, about women's rights and about combating oppression. Amineh Kakabaveh has there a strong support from me. Amineh Kakabaveh also asks specific questions about an individual study association, namely the study association Ibn Rushd. She has done so on several occasions before in interpellation debates in this House. I reply this time just as I always do: With the rules that exist about how we in Sweden govern our administration, I am prevented from commenting on which study associations should or should receive funding. It's a matter for the Folkbildningsrådet. There are those in Sweden who say that an authority should distribute this money, and even in this case I would have replied exactly the same. Regardless of who distributes the grants, as a minister, I am prevented from expressing my opinion on which individual organisations should or should not receive compensation. I am, however, very keen that the work we are doing through the Democracy Condition Investigation should be completed. I have good hopes that it will be possible to do so within the mandate. This question, Madam President, is not on my table, but on that of the Minister for Culture. Here, however, we have a great and important job to do to ensure that the conditions for democracy are clear and also respected in the field of education.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-520	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Minister, for the commitment and clarity. Of course, if the policy is not clear, the authorities cannot make the right decisions or always make them at the right time. The issue of grant conditions has been pursued in the Parliament's inter-political network, which consists of 18 members from almost all parties – six out of eight parties are included. We point out that there are fuzzy formulations, such as the purpose of public education. It says that you should maintain cultural heritage. It can be interpreted as such. It is also stated in the grant conditions that cultural specificities should be promoted. This in itself becomes problematic when it comes to the rights of homosexuals and women. They are not special, they are universal. The equal value of all men is universal. It's not funny that there's anything else. Of course, the authorities have to comply. I am not saying that any minister should make decisions from here about which organisations are going to exist or which ones are going to receive funding. On the other hand, it is to be welcomed that it is politically clear with its aims and objectives. As in other countries, we should also be able to govern this. We're supposed to be looking out for the tax money. They should go to social development, gender equality and everyone's equal value. These people will never be integrated. The children will always revolt. I can see why they do it. If you take away their rights in Swedish society, they then form a lot of other religious associations where they can be. Then the whole purpose of democracy, gender equality, people's equal value and integration will be empty of its content.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-524	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish preschool, school and public education, people's equal value must be at the centre. During the last term of office, the government carried out a change in the school curriculum in which, for the first time, we clearly entered that we should not have gender-separated groups in school, at least not without strong educational reasons. This was done in direct response to the emergence of gender-separated groups for exactly the reasons mentioned by Amineh Kakabaveh. The government is also currently working on a proposal to introduce a ban on the establishment of religious free schools, and this is done for similar reasons as those described by Amineh Kakabaverh. In adult education, these issues are extremely important. Many who come to Sweden get their first picture of Swedish society through SFI education. It is very important that the fine words that already exist in our curricula are also translated into reality in study circles, in folk high schools and in adult education. Madam President, I will work hard to ensure that we continue to have clear and clear regulations and wordings, but also with what is more difficult than writing fine words on paper, namely to ensure that these principles permeate the activities throughout our country, from Ystad to Haparanda, but also in every neighborhood, in every study association and in every folk high school. This is not easy, Madam President. But that is something that we must all fight together to ensure that our education contributes to a cohesive Sweden. I will not be content with less than that.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-527	Madam President, I would like Ann-Sofie Alm has asked me what measures I intend to take to protect children who are victims of honour-related violence and repression. Honour-related violence and oppression is a serious social problem that brings great suffering to those who are victims. We can never accept that people are subjected to oppression in the name of honor. The work against honour-related violence and repression is a high priority for the government, and in 2016 the government decided on a national strategy and a targeted action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. There is currently intensive work on the new action programme for the period 2021 – 2023 that the Government has previously announced. During its term of office, the Government has taken several measures against honour-related violence and repression. For example, on 1 July 2020, a new crime, child marriage crimes, was introduced, which can provide imprisonment for a maximum of four years, as well as a penalty for crimes with honorary motives. An exit ban was also introduced to protect children from being taken abroad to enter into child marriage or genital mutilation. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to submit proposals for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. The investigator will develop proposals for long-term goals to prevent and combat violence against children and identify shortcomings and possible measures. Strengthened competence and effective cooperation between responsible authorities is necessary to combat and prevent honour-related violence and repression and to provide victims with the protection and support to which they are entitled. The Government has therefore allocated SEK 180 million in 2021 for a special effort to increase the competence of honor-related violence and repression. The Council has recently decided on a multi-annual agency joint mission to prevent and combat genital mutilation of girls and women. The Government has also decided on an agency-wide mission under the coordination of the National Competence Team against Honorary Violence and Suppression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, to develop in 2021, among other things, a public authority-wide guidance for staff in social services, health care, school and police to prevent and prevent children from leaving the country to be married away, sexually stymied or subjected to various forms of honorary violence or coercion. Furthermore, the Government has commissioned the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County to prepare the establishment of a national cross-sectoral competence centre against honour-related violence and repression. In order to develop the work in school to prevent and combat honour-related violence and repression, the Swedish National Agency for Education has been awarded SEK 11 million for 2021 for a mission to strengthen the systematic work against honor-related violence and oppression within the school system, including preschool, through knowledge-raising efforts and support for various staff groups within school and preschool. The assignment must be presented by 4 February 2022. Furthermore, the school's mission in respect of honor issues has been strengthened as the Government decided in February 2021 on curriculum changes in the field of knowledge currently known as sex and cohabitation. The changes in curricula shall apply from autumn semester 2022. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the so-called Convention on the Rights of the Child, places far-reaching demands on States Parties to protect children against all forms of violence and abuse. Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to protect all children against all forms of violence. The rights in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been applicable as Swedish law since 1 January 2020, are linked and must be interpreted in relation to each other as a whole. For the government, it is a priority to strengthen children's rights and combat violence against children, including all forms of honour-related violence and repression.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-534	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to the Minister for his answer! I am grateful for the steps that have been taken in this House and with the government to prevent the grip of honour culture on children. The government, as the Minister says, has a very great responsibility. The government has been responsible for this for two terms of office and almost eight years. It's hard to tell how long eight years is, because it depends on what you relate to. Eight years is a really long time in a little girl's life. Eight years for a girl in a family with an honorary context can be the very time when she gets to be a child before she has to wear comprehensive clothes and veil. Has the girl been married for eight years to an older man who owns her and her body is eight years a lifelong hell. If the girl refuses to marry or refuses to obey her forced husband, she can end her young life as a balcony girl. Eight years ago, Madam President, in many Swedish people's minds the word was not there. Sweden must have zero tolerance against honour-related oppression. The marriage of girls is part of this oppression. But before children are subjected to this abuse, there have been plenty of other warning signs. It may be that they are not allowed to participate in certain school subjects or are not allowed to hang out with friends of the football field after school. Unfortunately, the knowledge of honorary culture is often lacking among adults who meet students and children every day. If school staff do not see the signals or do not know how to act when they suspect that honorary culture restricts young people's freedom, they will remain passive and thus also maintain the culture of honor, even if they do not want to. But of course, no shadow should fall upon the nation's educators. Ignorance is just as great in our society as in the government. For what does a veil on a child really mean? We are a country that loves to do surveys and keep statistics. For example, by asking students about their drinking habits or drug use, we find causes and can take measures that are needed. But for some reason we refrain from acquiring the necessary knowledge about how honorary culture restricts young people's lives in Sweden. How many children are at risk of being abducted? The answer to that question, Madam President, is that we do not know. And it's not very honorable that we don't know. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister and the Government know how many children live in honour culture, how many children are at risk of being taken away and how many children are at risk of being married off against their will. If the answer is that the Minister and the Government do not know, Madam President, I would like to know what measures the Minister and the Government intend to take to find out. Why does it not take more effort to find the children who are at risk of being taken away? Is there a fear in the government of being considered xenophobic? Every day it is incredibly important that we find the children at risk.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-542	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm for an extremely important interpellation. These are issues that are constantly on the agenda. The other day we heard on the news that we are actually not very good at monitoring how boys are exposed in Sweden. The Minister talks well about a lot of efforts being made. Unfortunately, they are not enough. It is important that we strengthen children's rights, but today it actually looks like we have parallel societies. We have girls, women and boys who are exposed to an honorary context, and we cannot really make the right efforts. Then you need knowledge. Then you need to have answers to the questions asked by the Member of Parliament, Mrs Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm. Do we have enough control? Do we know how many children today have stomach pains because they think they will be married away during the summer vacation? How many chairs will be empty in school this fall? What do we do about those kids? And what do we do about the children who were married last summer and whose chairs were empty last autumn? Where do those kids go? What efforts is the government making to bring them home? I live in Haninge, where among others Jordbro and Brandbergen are vulnerable areas. We wandered in Jordbro the other week. It was almost just boys out there. At the sports field, football was played. They did different things. We saw very few girls, and the ones we saw had veils. The veil is basically a symbol of female oppression. I know that I and the Minister do not agree on this. But it is clear that the veil is there so that you do not arouse desire. I think that when you're eight or nine years old, you're seen as a sex object that needs to cover itself in order not to arouse desires in men. I basically think, just as I think most people in Sweden do, that it is important that you decide for yourself what to wear. But society doesn't look like that. There is oppression, and the veil is the symbol of that oppression. We need to make efforts according to what society actually looks like, not according to what we think it should look like. Here and now we have a society where these children and women are exposed to this. Madam President, I would like So we have women and girls in Sweden who are not allowed to do what they want. They can't dress any way they want. They can't love who they want. They can't spend time with anyone they want after school. As I said, boys are also vulnerable, but we do not have sufficient knowledge of how and to what extent. How many children are at risk of being married against their will this summer? I would like to hear answers to all the questions put to the Minister by Ann-Sofie Alm.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-548	Madam President, I would like I want to start from behind and establish that the sexualisation of children is something that is reprehensible and unacceptable regardless of how it is expressed. It can be expressed in demands for veils and in an honorary context or – as was the case only the other month – in that tens of thousands of Swedish men are looking for sex purchases and specifically asking for children. We will never ever accept the sexualization of children in any context. But honor-related violence and oppression have a special structure and structure. It involves the whole family. Many people are involved in the oppression of the children and young people living in the family. For many reasons, the extent of honor-related violence and repression is more difficult to assess, and the number of darkness is significant. It takes many different forms, which is important to emphasise, from the serious crimes of child marriage, murder and violence and all the way to the restriction of freedom in everyday life for young people. There are studies and other data that show that honor-related violence and oppression is a serious and extensive problem in Sweden. I myself have been involved in making decisions about the municipal survey in Gothenburg, Malmö and Stockholm that Örebro University carried out in 2018. It showed that 7 to 8 percent of the ninth graders live in families that use different degrees of violence to protect the family's and family's reputation. In Karlstad University's and the Foundation's National Survey of Violence Against Children 2016, 2.5 per cent of 4,647 pupils in grade 9 in comprehensive school and grade 2 in high school did not get to decide who to marry or live with as an adult. Among pupils with parents born outside the Nordic region, it was 6.6 per cent of the pupils. The Government has decided to support the Foundation General Barnhuset's work in preparing a new national survey of violence against children. The survey should contain questions about serious restrictions on young people's lives, for example regarding the possibility of choosing one's own future partner. In order for us to be able to assess the extent of honour-related violence and oppression in Sweden, more reliable statistics are also needed over time. Statistics are important to increase knowledge and to assess the need for and effectiveness of action in this area. The Government proposes in the budget bill for 2021 the establishment of a permanent national centre of competence against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County. It will be part of the Centre's work to regularly investigate the extent of honorary violence in Sweden. The tasks of the National Skills Centre will also include supporting municipalities and regions in their efforts to identify the prevalence of honour violence, plan activities and implement, monitor and evaluate quality assured practices and methods to prevent honour violence and offer support to individuals exposed. The funding level for the competence centre, SEK 40 million annually from 2022 onwards, is higher than the funding that the county administrative board has had for national assignments in this area in recent years. For the preparation of the establishment in 2021, the County Administrative Board is awarded SEK 30 million. All of this is aimed at what I perceive the Members of Parliament asking for, that is to meet the need to know how children and young people in Sweden today are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression and how we can strengthen the adults who meet them when it comes to catching up that it is happening and how they should support children to get out of these situations.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-556	Madam President, I would like I would really like to emphasise that I have no doubt that the Minister has an entirely honest and sincere intention on this issue. I appreciate that we are discussing and can find out what we are going to do to get to the problem, because the problem is real. But the question remains. Why don't we know how many children this is all about? There's information. Some data from 2017 talked about 240 000 children. As long as it's heartbreaking. Fighting honour-related oppression is about showing concern for all people in our country, no matter where they have their roots. Anyone who claims that the fight against culture of honour fertilises racism should answer this question: why should some of the citizens of our country not enjoy the freedom and rights we others take for granted? The real xenophobia is to turn a blind eye to how the culture of honour limits the freedom of some young people. Honour culture deprives them of power over decisions that only they themselves have the right to make, such as choosing who to marry. The culture of honor robs them of their childhood. So this is about 240 000 children. One might ask how we would have reacted if it had been about Swedish-born children with light hair and light eyes. Had not the nation unitedly stood up long ago and turned upside down in heaven and earth to find these children? I believe that a national action plan is needed to combat this culture of shame. During the summer vacation, girls will be forced into marriages that they have not chosen. In the autumn, school benches will be empty. Their classmates may wonder what they will become when they grow up, but these children are already doomed to a life of freedom. This hurts terribly to know. If by increasing our knowledge we can prevent one of these forced marriages, it is worth every bet. As the Minister says, cross-border work is needed. But then we need to know which children live in honour culture and who risk their lives if they violate the culture of honor. When the school reports concerns and crimes are suspected, the police should not be able to call their parents' homes in the way they do today. Instead, all warning bells should ring. When an alarm about honour culture comes to the social services, it must be directly protected, for this cannot be handled as a normal family concern. The law on forced custody of young people, LVU, must be rewritten to protect children. If you take an eight-year-old girl from the family because she's oppressed by honorary culture, you can't work her back to the biological parents when she's 12. We can only protect children against culture of honour with greater knowledge, and society as a whole must have greater knowledge of this. There is a need for a pronounced zero tolerance to the violent culture of honor. A national action plan is needed to achieve zero tolerance. As I said, I think that what the Minister in his reply lines up about what the government has done is good, but how will the Minister bring all his colleagues into the government to achieve zero tolerance?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-565	Madam President, I would like If we are never to accept the sexualisation of a child, it cannot be said that it is difficult or that so many people are exposing it. Then I think you have to speed it up. You have to roll up your sleeves a little bit more. The minister lists bets after bets. Yet we can see, also in Gothenburg, where the survey was carried out, that violence of honour and repression are increasing. Then you have to ask yourself, are we doing the right things? And do we do enough? Can we do more? The veil, which I've been into before, is a symbol of oppression. It's not a common garment like my blue dress or Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm's white pants. It's a symbol of oppression. Is it not better, Madam Minister, for society to take the fight for these girls and women rather than for every individual who is already vulnerable and alone to take it? My question to the Minister is: is the Minister not even a little interested in and prepared to investigate the issue of a veiled ban? It is, of course, a question of getting another tool in the fight against honour-related violence and oppression. I don't think, and I don't think anyone else does, that this is the single most important key, but I think it is an important key in our toolbox for the right of all girls and women to freedom.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-570	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with a national action plan. We have a national strategy that is decided in 2016 and a targeted action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. We are currently working on a new action programme linked to this. We have also just set up an investigation into a national strategy to combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. This work is ongoing. Since the honourable Member asked a direct question, I would like to emphasise that I have all my colleagues in the government with me in this. The government as a whole is 100% behind this work. This is a priority work that goes on every day, all the time. What makes me a little concerned is that the work that is being done is being waved away when we have these debates. The surveys that are now beginning, the knowledge base that we have started and the important work that is going on are being waved away, and then there is a ban on veils. Then I would like to stress very carefully, for anyone who has entered into honour-related violence and oppression and who is interested in the question: veil is not the only way of oppressing girls and women. Like Mrs Anstrell, that is also not the answer when it comes to resolving this issue. Every child that the school perceives lives under duress or lives under honour-related violence and oppression must be reported unsettled, whether or not the child wears a veil. And a long line of girls, boys and LGBTI people in this country live under honor-related violence and oppression without ever coming near a veil. Do not reduce the issue of honour-related violence and oppression to mere veil! We must take the whole spectrum of this problem seriously. It's about the gross violence, the abductions, the child marriages, the coercion, the genital mutilations and the balcony girls. But it's also about the little thing in everyday life, about not being able to choose education, not being allowed to choose clothes, not being able to choose to do a leisure activity after school. Every dimension of honor-related violence and oppression must be fought every day. It should not be reduced and slimmed down to a matter of veil or not veil. Read the girls' stories! Read the maps from Gothenburg, Stockholm and Malmö if you have not done so! Read the descriptions! There are terrible links to men's violence against women. Many of these girls live in double oppression. They live in the oppression of honour within the framework of the family and family. In the next line, where they have a secret relationship, they are subjected to men's violence against women. It's terrible, because they don't have anyone to tell. You don't want to go to social services and tell them. For there is a great deal of concern about what happens to the family and siblings. So you turn to school to a very large extent. Therefore, the assignments, which may not sound so funny in a debate, to the Swedish National Agency for Education and Training to train the staff to meet the children and young people at school in order to be able to catch up, help, prevent and be able to bring children out of these situations are extremely important. I can't stress it enough. This is one of the government's top priorities. That applies to all my colleagues. I will do everything I can, as long as I have this mission, to stop the honour-related violence and repression.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-579	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for showing such commitment to these issues! There's a lot of people out there who need it. I share the Minister's view that the culture of honour is much greater than a veil. It must not be minimized, but it must also not be hidden away. Every aspect of the culture of honor must be fought. Each part is a detention. If the girl is not allowed to go anywhere other than home after school but her siblings get it, it is a detention. If she has to wear a veil, it's a detention. If she gets circumcised, it's a detention and an enormous abuse. If she gets married, it's a detention. I've read these stories. I know what this is about. It is an immense and monstrous inhumanity that lies in the way men treat women in honour culture. I am pleased that the Minister is showing this commitment and this vigour, because it is needed. We must fight this together. We need a clear national action plan, and we need knowledge throughout society, not just in school. If the school calls the police and the police call the parents, it's the vulnerable child who gets hurt anyway. This is a major social problem. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate. Finally, however, I must ask the Minister: when can an action plan really be seen? The fact that the school is given its mission is one thing, but this must be seen throughout society. We must do everything in our power to maintain the equality that your mother and my mother and our grandmothers have fought for for our sake. And we have to protect every child from the culture of honor.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-585	Madam President, I would like I would just like to say briefly that several of the tasks I have been talking about – I am also very happy about this debate, because I think it is extremely important – are precisely joint authorities. There are a number of targeted assignments, including to the Swedish National Agency for Education, but there are also a large number of public authority-wide assignments precisely because the whole society has to hook in and know what applies to these issues. We cannot stand by and watch when people are prevented from choosing for themselves who to marry or accept child marriage or that people are subjected to other violence and oppression because of standards of honor. Anyone exposed to honour-related violence and repression has the right to support and protection, and it is important that women, girls, men, boys and LGBTI people who are exposed to honour-related violence and repression receive that very support and protection. Together with the municipalities, we need to strengthen the school's ability to catch up with children and young people who are subjected to honorary oppression. But we also need to strengthen the knowledge of other authorities in order for them to be able to respond properly – it can be social services, the police or health services, all of which have a shared responsibility for this. Where oppression arises, this government will fight it. We will not be satisfied until all children are safe and free to enjoy their summer holidays, without threats of marriage, without pain in the stomach for fear of being brought out of the land and without the tongue of honor, heavy yoke hanging over them. I will never stop working to give all children an upbringing free from oppression of honour and free from violence.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-591	Madam President, I would like Michael Anefur has asked me what measures I intend to take to overcome the rapidly growing long-term unemployment, whether I have any ideas other than continuing to do the things that he means so far have not proved to be working and how I stand on the proposals to reduce long-term unemployment that other parties have presented. Long-term unemployment is not just a problem for the victim, but is a concern for all of us. Every time someone emerges from long-term unemployment, we reduce the risk of social exclusion and, at the same time, increase tax revenues to our common welfare. With the budget bill for 2021, the government has therefore taken strong measures to enable those who become unemployed to have access to training and conversion and, if necessary, to receive support to find a new job. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. More than SEK 2 billion is invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, procured matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. In the Government's spring change budget for 2021, an additional SEK 448 million is proposed for more unemployed people to receive a contribution. In order for more job seekers with disabilities to get to work or start studying, the Government proposes increased resources for work preparation efforts. The Government has decided that the temporary possibility of extending the maximum support period for additional services, introductory jobs and new start-up jobs introduced by the Government in 2020 will also apply in 2021. Subsidised employment is an effective way of getting people who are less closely linked to the labour market into work. In April 2021, Arbetsförmedlingen, on behalf of the Government, introduced an intensive year within the establishment programme. The focus of the intensive year is on language, workplace activities and shorter education. The aim is for the participants to come to work within one year. This is how longer periods of unemployment can be countered. Many long-term unemployed people lack the skills needed to enter the labour market. The government has taken steps to increase the number of unemployed with educational needs to study. In November 2020, the government expanded the opportunity for the unemployed to study with continued activity support. The Government has also decided that study start-up support during 2021 should be provided to those who are registered as job seekers at Arbetsförmedlingen, regardless of how long the person has been unemployed. In June 2021, the opportunity to study part-time alongside participation in the Job and Development Guarantee will also be extended. The government is also working to establish jobs for newcomers and the long-term unemployed as proposed by the parties. Job creation is a completely new model of subsidising and stimulating employment for newly arrived and long-term unemployed. This action will help to ensure that more new arrivals and long-term unemployed can get to work as the economy reopens. The government will continue to closely monitor developments in the labour market.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-599	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. There are few issues that are so crucial at both individual and community level that you get a job and can support yourself. The more people who work, the more personal freedom and, which is not insignificant, the more revenue the state, the municipalities and the regions – thus more resources for the common welfare. This should reasonably lead to the loss of resources or efforts to prevent unemployment, including long-term unemployment. This was the basis of my interpellation. On the basis of the seriousness of the question, I might have expected a more full-bodied and forward-looking answer from the Minister. This feels a bit like a template answer, and it is possible that the Minister has received this question many times before. But I note that it is only a little, if anything, that is new in the answer. There are no proposals for breaking long-term unemployment. The answer contains an account – almost – of how much additional money the government is investing. But seriously, it may not be primarily more money that is needed. The problem is that current measures have not succeeded well enough to break the rise in long-term unemployment, which is now approaching 200 000 people. 200 000 people are long-term unemployed in Sweden. It would not be serious for me to say that the current efforts are of no use at all; of course they are. But the problem is, they're not enough. Long-term unemployment is on the increase, and it is getting stuck. Madam President, I would like It is not just a question of corona effects, but unfortunately this is a trend that we have seen for many years. Minister Nordmark lists matching services, additional services, introduction jobs, etc. This is how it is once again stated that the government is certainly adding more money, most recently in the spring budget 448 million in order for more unemployed people to get involved. But this is less important if efforts do not lead to more people getting into work. I take it that the Minister, and thus the Government, has a lack of new ideas on how long-term unemployment can be broken. This is worrying, especially for those who are out of work. Just continuing as has been done so far and which has not worked fully will not reasonably work better no matter how much resources you invest. I also asked the Minister whether she is considering possibly looking at the opposition's various proposals and models. I do not get an answer to that at all, which is perhaps not so strange because governments of different colours are not very happy to take on board others' proposals. But precisely on the issue of long-term unemployment, all of us politicians should gather together to achieve the very best results.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-606	Madam President, I would like However, with a view to the next debate, I cannot help but go into this debate as well. I am reacting to the answer. This is what the Minister says: and every time someone emerges from long-term unemployment, we reduce the risk of social exclusion and, at the same time, increase tax revenues to our common welfare. ..................................................... That's exactly what it is. But it can also be reversed: every time someone gets into long-term unemployment, we increase the risk of social exclusion and, at the same time, reduce tax revenues to our common welfare. It is the other side of the coin, and that is exactly where we have ended up. We have ended up as badly as the interpeller Michael Anefur mentioned: According to the Employment Service, 182 000 people were long-term unemployed in May. According to Arbetsförmedlingen itself, it is a record long-term unemployment in Sweden. As Michael Anefur mentioned, the Minister talks about everything the government is doing to reduce unemployment. I am not going to blame the current Minister for Employment for everything, because she has not been there throughout the period, but why should we think that the government has the solution to these problems given that everything that the government has done so far has obviously gone in the wrong direction? This has led to an increase in unemployment. When the government took office in 2014, Sweden was 11th in the EU. Today, we are in 24th place in the European Union when it comes to unemployment. Despite Stefan Lövven's promise that we would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate, only three countries in the EU now have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. At the same time, we have the highest long-term unemployment rate in modern times. That is why I wonder: why should we trust that the Social Democrats and the government have the solution to this when things have gone so completely wrong so far?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-613	Madam President, I would like I will have the opportunity to continue to debate precisely the issue of unemployment with Jan Ericson in the next interpellation debate. However, I note that at the same time we have the highest employment rate in Europe. There are many of us who work, and we also have many people looking for work in Sweden. So we have a high level of participation in the labour force, and then there is also a high level of unemployment. It is also very difficult in times of pandemic and crisis to make comparisons here and now. But, of course, we must do everything in our power to break unemployment and, above all, to ensure that long-term unemployment does not get stuck. I welcome Michael Anefur's important interpellation here today. We can well say that our country has been tried very hard during the Corona crisis. Unemployment rose very quickly. At the same time, we now see that we have a new situation. When we look at the statistics, we see that for more than two months now, more people are going from unemployment to work than they are who are enrolled in the Employment Service. We have seen a recovery in the Swedish economy and that the labour market has shown great resilience. The development is therefore better than the December forecast, and it is clear that the policy we have pursued has contributed to this situation. Short-term work involving 600 000 Swedes and strong support measures for companies to save jobs and companies has played a very important role. While we see the light points, it is of course important to remember that there are many sectors that are still having a tough time, and there is a major challenge with growing long-term unemployment. I always endorse, Madam President, good ideas on how to work to break long-term unemployment. Above all, I believe a lot in the local power, the importance of collaboration between the Employment Service, the municipalities and the labour integration social enterprises, which Michael Anefur highlights. Furthermore, it is important that we ensure that people really get the right conditions to strengthen their position in order to get closer to a job. Madam President, I would like I have looked at those within the Job and Development Guarantee, the long-term unemployed, in our country. We note that many of them lack upper secondary education, i.e. basic knowledge and competence for a working life that places quite high demands on people's knowledge. That is why it is so important that we invest as much as we do today in education, that is to say, the opportunity to read out their upper secondary school skills and to study part-time – which applies from this month to those who are in the job and development guarantee – with changes in study start-up support. As Michael Anefur says, it is important that people receive support. It is not enough just with money, but it is also central that there is an authority in the form of Arbetsförmedlingen that delivers well and that there is a large and strong commitment at the local level. That's something I believe in a lot. That is why part of the work that the government is now doing, which is about creating better structural conditions by reforming the Public Employment Service, is an important part. It is both about employers getting the right skills easier and faster and people getting the right conditions to enter the labour market. There's a lot going on. Establishment jobs are also a reform that will play a major role for the long-term unemployed.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-622	Madam President, I would like I believe in my oblivion that all politicians want to solve the issue – including the government. Let's look at Arbetsförmedlingen's budget savings, in ordinary Swedish the Arbetsförmedlingen returns after the financial year. That's a lot of money. For 2020, the Employment Service returned nearly 31⁄2 billion in labour market policy measures. I am not sure that it is a hundred percent good thing to add even more money in that situation. You could say it's about that year. But if we then look back to 2015 it turns out that money has been returned every year, at least a couple of years in the vicinity or over 2 billion a year. As an old municipal politician, I would have been extremely upset if my children's and education administration had returned 100 million and said that they were doing great and got money over. They had not been good at all because they had not fulfilled the assignment. I think it's the same with the Employment Service, and I guess the Minister can be just as upset. For many of our new arrivals born abroad, language is crucial. It no longer helps to offer opportunities, but I think you have to make demands: You have to learn the language. You must learn Swedish. Otherwise, you will always be outside. Being outside fertilizes low self-confidence and poor social status and increases the risk of getting into completely the wrong situations in life. Unfortunately, we can see that several social enterprises are going bankrupt. I realize it's largely due to the corona. What is sad is that these companies have not received more specific support. These companies provide real jobs to people who would otherwise be incredibly far from the labour market. There the government has failed. If social enterprises had been kept a little more under their arms so that they could have also overwintered, it would have been a much better situation when the coronan subsides. Much of what the Minister said in his speech is not primarily about the long-term unemployed, but about the unemployed. I share the view that when the trade and the restaurants get started, when we release the restrictions, there will obviously be a lot of new jobs – and that is excellent. I'm not jealous, so to speak. That's great. But I am afraid that we must find new ways for the long-term unemployed. Reinforce new start jobs. Give job incentives to the individual. Give more mentor support to companies that make the efforts. Increase support for social enterprises. Make bigger and harder investments in language training. These points should be taken on board and considered by the government.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-629	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour says that it is difficult to assess unemployment during a pandemic. But this isn't about the pandemic at all. I mentioned that in 2014, Sweden was eleventh in the EU in terms of unemployment. By 2019 Sweden had slipped down to place 22. Thus, despite five years of strong economic boom, Sweden was the country in the EU where unemployment had increased most throughout the EU. In addition, Sweden was the worst during the 2020 pandemic in terms of the development of unemployment. It was the worst of all countries across the EU. Then Sweden slipped down to place 23, and now we have slipped down to place 24. The development is progressing all the time, but the big case in Sweden compared to the rest of the world occurred between 2014 and 2019 in a very strong boom. The truth is that the government has failed in prosperity, in recession and during the pandemic. It has failed all the time, every year, regardless of the economic situation. Then why should we trust the government today? I do not doubt the willingness and desire of the Minister for Employment to bring down unemployment, but I doubt the ability of the government because there is nothing new. You try the same thing you have done before, which has not succeeded, and you think that you should solve the problems by putting in more money. I don't think that's the way forward. I want to hear something new from the Minister for Labour, a new way of thinking, new ideas. Unless the Minister for Labour has something like this in his own toolbox, read the Moderates' motion and what we propose. We have a lot of proposals, and we showed in 2006 that they work. We have then further expanded our policy. Listen and take to yourselves! Then maybe we can do something good together.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-633	Madam President, I would like With regard to the unemployment figures, I would like to share with you what it looked like last spring when we were in the middle of the pandemic. It was interesting to see what happened in different countries. It turned out that in some countries unemployment fell sharply. When we drilled in this, it turned out that in some countries it was not possible to register as a job seeker. They simply left the labour force, and they were not looking for work. In Sweden we have a system where people are at the disposal of the labour market. You sign up for Arbetsförmedlingen. It is also a prerequisite for receiving various allowances. It is therefore difficult to compare in a pandemic. After all, it was not that these countries experienced declining unemployment or job growth, but simply that they could not register. In Sweden, we saw that nine out of ten unemployed registered for the Swedish Public Employment Service digitally, which showed that it is very positive that they have invested so much in the IT systems. It is also the case that Sweden continues to have a higher employment rate now – even during the pandemic year 2020 – than when Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister, so we have still had a positive development. But we are not at all satisfied, and it is a very serious problem that we have a growing long-term unemployment. I would like to reply to you, Michael Anefur, that I share your view: we should not have a piece back from the Arbetsförmedlingen. After all, we want the resources that we invest in labour market policy to be used. If we then get resources back because we had estimated that unemployment would be higher and that it would cost more in compensation, that is fine. But this is about the efforts, because it is important that people get the right input so that they really get the support. It is about duty and right for us Social Democrats. Sfi from day one is of course also important based on the questions that Michael Anefur asks. Here I would like to highlight a reform that I very much look forward to evaluating and learning from and gladly discussing in this House. In April of this year, we introduced something called intensive years. It is an initiative aimed at people who are in the job development guarantee and come from the establishment programme. The intensive year is exactly what it's called. Over the course of a year, there will be a wide range of actions: SFI, i.e. language training, internships in the workplace and various training measures. It is a chain of efforts that strengthens the position of the individual. In addition, we are now introducing an intensive practice aimed at employers. They are paid to offer this intensive practice, and the individual receives a proof and an important line of his CV. In addition, we encourage informal apprenticeships. For example, folk high schools and trade unions can contribute to mentoring programmes and find ways to support the individual in addition to the efforts of employers, the Employment Service and municipalities. It will be very interesting to evaluate this and see if we can learn from it in order to become more effective in labour market policy. What is also new, as I said, is the start-up jobs, which we are currently working to get in place as a completely new form of subsidised employment for the long-term unemployed.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-646	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for agreeing not to have money back from AF! That's good. One thing that I think complicates this that not enough people get the chance to try a job is that for a small employer it is a hundred systems. The minister hopefully knows them, but I can't sort them out and learn all the abbreviations and all the names here and there. I understand the small employer who says, "No, I don't think so. I won't. I could have, but... and if you get through that jungle, you might not even get a wrist support, but it costs you even though it's said it shouldn't. There's more to do, obviously. Then this with a high employment rate. It's kind of a game of words. What is essential, what ultimately applies, is how many people have jobs and how many are unemployed. Then we can call it what we want. I am pleased that we have a high employment rate. I'm glad a lot of people want to look for work. I can also say that there are considerably more of us in Sweden now than when Stefan Löfven took office. It may have some bearing on the employment rate depending on whether you count the percentage or if you count the number. We shouldn't try to fool ourselves in any way. We have a huge problem with long-term unemployment in this country, regardless of the high or low employment rate. And I believe that we who sit in the Swedish Parliament, we who make laws, and you who sit in the government must do this together – not for our own sake, Madam President, but for those who stand outside and have a long way in. That's the most important thing.
i-75L9oX3LFi5D6sdVTkTWoF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Michael Anefur, for a very important interpellation! We really need to take all the measures we can to break long-term unemployment and ensure that it does not get stuck. It is as I see it the biggest challenge in the Swedish labour market right now, given that we now see bright points – more go from unemployment to jobs – but also that those who were far from the labour market even before the pandemic have got it tougher. That is why we need to take more effective measures. As I said, the fact that we have increased the opportunities to study is important. We know that many of those who are long-term unemployed lack upper secondary education, so it is an important part. There is the intensive year, as I have mentioned, and also the start-up jobs are important reforms that the government is now embarking on. We are also working on the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen. Michael Anefur mentioned the arbetsintegrative social enterprises. Here we want to ensure that there is a variety of actors, Madam President, who can help to ensure that people really get the right support on the basis of their conditions. I would like to say that social enterprises that are integrating in particular often have a unique ability to meet people who are far from the labour market – it may be the long-term unemployed or people who have just fallen into unemployment. These are important issues now that we are reforming the agency and will make sure to improve and streamline both matching and labour market policy in general in Sweden today. Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important interpellation.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-656	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what explanations I see for the fact that Sweden has, for the first time since we joined the EU, higher unemployment than the EU average and what I intend to do concretely to reduce unemployment. The outbreak of covid-19 has led to a global economic crisis and to a rapid rise in unemployment in 2020, both in Sweden and in other countries. S verige has the highest participation rate in the EU. In contrast to in many other countries, participation in the labour market has been maintained at a high level during the crisis. This is an important reason why unemployment in Sweden has increased in relation to many other countries. In Sweden, there are many of us who are looking for a job. That's good. But it also makes unemployment high. There are also many of us who work in Sweden. The employment rate is therefore also at a high level in an international perspective. In the long term, high labour force participation still contributes to higher employment. It is true that Sweden lost investments in relat ion to other countries when comparing the development of unemployment between 2013 and 2018. At the same time, however, the unemployment rate in Sweden decreased from 8.0 per cent to 6.3 per cent during the same period, according to the Labour Force Survey of Statistics Sweden. The government has taken strong measures to reduce the impact of the pandemic on jobs and businesses. Through support for short-term work, hundreds of thousands of employees have so far escaped the risk of losing their jobs, and companies have been able to retain important labour. The Swedish economy recovered stronger than expected in autumn 2020 and the beginning of 2021, to which the Government's actions have contributed. The growth in unemployment slowed down in the second half of 2020, and the unemployment forecast has been revised to varying degrees by both the government and the Institute of Economic Development and the Public Employment Service compared to previous estimates. In accordance with the budget proposal for 2021, over SEK 100 billion has been added to restart the economy while long-term reforms will help solve societal problems. Overall, the reforms are estimated to bring the unemployment rate to just over 1.3 percentage points lower than if the proposals are not implemented. This represents about 75,000 more jobs. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. The Swedish Public Employment Service's administrative grant is increased by approximately SEK 1 billion to meet the increase in unemployment and to ensure an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. More than SEK 2 billion is invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, procured matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. The government is working to introduce start-up jobs for newly arrived and long-term unemployed, as proposed by the parties. The reform of the Employment Service continues to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. The progress of vaccination gives hope for 2021, both in terms of human health and economic development. However, the uncertainty surrounding economic development is high and depends largely on how the spread of infection and vaccination develops in the future in Sweden and abroad. The government continues to monitor labour market developments closely.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-665	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. Unfortunately, however, it is just an embarrassing repetition of the government's new, somewhat misleading, mantra to try to confuse the debate. Poland, Czech Republic, Netherlands, Hungary, Malta, Germany, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Romania, Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Denmark, Portugal, Luxembourg, Estonia, Croatia, Cyprus, Slovakia, France, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania – these are 23 EU countries that have one thing in common. They all have lower unemployment than Sweden. How could that be? Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you again that Stefan Löfven promised for the 2014 elections that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. After he won the election, he said a little cocky: Evaluate us at the jobs! So let's do it: in 2014, Sweden, as I said before, was 11th among the countries of the European Union in terms of unemployment. In 2019, Sweden was in 22nd place despite the fact that we had a strong boom between 2014 and 2019. In 25 out of 27 EU countries, unemployment fell between 2014 and 2019. In only three countries it increased, and Sweden was the country where it increased most between 2014 and 2019. Then came the pandemic, which increased unemployment in most countries. But even during the pandemic, Sweden has been among the worst at keeping unemployment down. In 2020, only four countries in the EU had less labour market development than Sweden, and Sweden slipped down 23 out of 27 countries. We have now received the latest figures from Eurostat. Sweden has now slipped down another position to position 24. Only Greece, Spain and Italy had higher unemployment than Sweden in March this year. Perhaps the most remarkable thing is that since Sweden joined the EU, we have always had lower unemployment than the EU average. Now, for the first time, we have higher than average unemployment. A Swedish government's task must be to manage to get more people into work in a boom than other countries succeed with and in recession and crisis get a smaller increase in unemployment than others. That is how it worked during the time of the alliance government, when Sweden was always on the upper half of the EU when it came to unemployment. And so it worked even under the governments before the Alliance, regardless of political color. Sweden usually succeeded better than others, and this strengthened our competitiveness and our public finances. But now something's happened. The Swedish government is under-emerging in both boom, recession and crisis. The government's new mantra is that the high unemployment rate in Sweden compared to other countries is due to the fact that in other countries people have given up, stopped looking for work and left the labour market. Then unemployment will fall. Only in Sweden do people continue to look for jobs, and that is why we should almost see the high Swedish unemployment as something positive. This may be the most embarrassing attempt to explain away high unemployment that has ever been pronounced by a Swedish government. First of all, most EU countries have some form of unemployment insurance or other security systems, and in any case in northern and western Europe, the rules are often quite similar to those in Sweden. You normally have to be an active job seeker in order to receive compensation. The claim that people would have given up and stopped looking for jobs in all countries except Sweden falls on their own absurdity. If you did so, you would in many cases lose your financial support. Nor have I seen any statistical evidence or other evidence or reports whatsoever for what the government claims. My first question is: who was it that drilled into this with regard to the European Union, as the Minister for Labour mentioned earlier? My second question is this: what reports and evidence does the Minister for Labour invoke for the claim that the unemployed in almost all the countries of the European Union except Sweden have suddenly stopped looking for a job and that, as a result, unemployment has been brought down to lower levels than in Sweden? Are there any figures behind these claims by the government, or are they made up? Finally, which countries have not been able to register as unemployed? Which countries were these?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-678	Madam President, I would like It is not surprising to imagine that when many countries had a lockdown last spring and people could not even get out of their homes, it was very difficult to register as a job seeker if there were no digital services, as in Sweden. Madam President, I would like However, I would like to take this opportunity to take a serious look at what has happened. What we see is that, during the previous parliamentary term, an economic policy was conducted that turned budget deficits into large surpluses. It is also this that has laid the groundwork for us to be well equipped when the pandemic came. That is why we have been able to take very strong measures to save jobs and companies in Sweden and to strengthen the financial security of employees, including a temporary improvement in unemployment insurance for a couple of years. Of course, this is central to our country. We entered the crisis with 350 000 more people employed than when the government took office in 2014, of which 250 000 were born abroad. Sweden has the highest level of labour force participation in the EU, which is about the same level as before the crisis. As I said, labour force participation is an important reason why unemployment in Sweden has increased in relation to many other countries. I also think it is important that we remember that Sweden received a great many asylum seekers in connection with the refugee crisis. For example, in 2015, the number of asylum seekers per capita in Sweden was the highest ever registered in an OECD country. These developments, of course, brought challenges because it takes time for newcomers to enter the labour market. We can see that during the last term of office, during Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's time, the start-up period for new arrivals was halved. At the same time, however, we now have a tough situation in the labour market, where many who are not as established have been severely affected. This applies, among other things, to newly arrived and young people, and specifically to certain sectors. Now we are in a new position, where we see light points. We see that there are more people who go from unemployment to work than they are registered at Arbetsförmedlingen. This is a development we have seen for just over two months now. We see that we have a lot of coverage when it comes to vaccines. We are continuing that work and we have been able to begin to ease the restrictions. Of course this is important; as we ease restrictions, jobs will be created and jobs will come back. Of course, Madam President, the government is acting strongly with a whole range of measures both in terms of being able to restart the economy and to ensure that we get the new industrialisation that has begun, not least in the northern parts of Sweden. It is about all the needs that employers have to employ and where we in politics meet with important training efforts. This will lay the foundations for us to increase employment and ensure that more people get into work and thus also ensure that we can have good welfare in the future.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-687	Madam President, I would like I can see that there is clearly no basis for the statement that several ministers and the whole government are now making when we talk about people having stopped looking for jobs in other countries. It feels like this argument is so hollow and so shameless that one is almost ashamed on behalf of the government. With regard to the claim that it is difficult to register as a job seeker during a lockdown, most countries have what I know, at least in Northern and Western Europe, digital services. And in all EU countries there are telephones. I have found no evidence anywhere, not anything, to substantiate what the Minister for Employment says and as other ministers have said. I would still like to know in which countries it was not possible to register as unemployed? I know the Minister for Labour from the past as a wise and knowledgeable trade union leader with a broad knowledge of the labour market, but I do not quite understand that she is in charge of this political game. What will she and the government do if Swedish unemployment now begins to fall back again? If so, is it a sign that the Swedish unemployed have stopped looking for a job and have given up? Should the government then begin to regret that unemployment is going down, when it is now emphasised that it is positive that so many Swedes are looking for jobs and that it is therefore almost positive that we have higher unemployment compared to other countries? I think that is a very strange argument. Madam President, I would like Another aspect of this is that many unemployed Swedes are not visible in the statistics. We have lots of workable new arrivals who go with start-up and other benefits without working. We have thousands of people in extra services who we consider to be in work, even though they are actually involved in a labour market measure that is not even allowed to compete with real jobs. And we have many who work so little, down to just an hour a week, that they can't support themselves. If you counted all working-age people in Sweden who cannot make a living from their own work, the Swedish unemployment rate would be sky-higher than the already weak figures in the official statistics. Is it not time, then, for the government to stop trying to confuse and talk away the high level of Swedish unemployment and instead try to do something about it? As a solution, I do not count new government proposals to remove people from the labour force, so that unemployment disappears in the statistics. The solution is not free years, new leave reforms, increasing early retirement and pointless storage in various measures that we have tried many times to no avail. The solution must, of course, be to create the conditions and driving forces to get more unemployed in real jobs and self-sufficiency. Then the Minister for Employment mentions the asylum reception in 2015, and certainly we can fully agree that this has affected unemployment quite dramatically. But the strange thing is that the Social Democrats do not draw any conclusions from this, but instead want to increase the reception of asylum seekers, when we already have almost 200 000 long-term unemployed and almost the highest unemployment rate in the whole of Europe. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats want to increase the reception of asylum. What does this lead to? Then the myth is spread that the time of establishment has been halved during your reign, although that is not true. After all, the report you presented has been seen by all the experts. It is not true that the start-up period has been halved. Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Labour has a lack of ideas, I repeat my offer to take part in Moderates' comprehensive labour market policy and, not least, integration. With our moderate policy, just as after the 2006 elections, we could make a big difference in real life. And Sweden really needs a new moderate-led government, unless today's government listens to good ideas and does the right things to bring down unemployment.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-697	Madam President, I would like Full employment is our main long-term objective. The fact that more people are working is the foundation for being able to invest in welfare and security. We will do everything we can to ensure that unemployment and long-term unemployment do not get stuck. When you look at what it has looked like, we can see that it was during the financial crisis, when Jan Ericson's party The Moderates were in government, that long-term unemployment actually stuck at very high levels. Since the start of the government's Löfven, a great many reforms and efforts have been made that actually make it easier for people to get to work. I would particularly like to highlight the importance of education and training for future jobs, because we have a major problem with the matching of the Swedish labour market. Many companies and employers are looking for people with the right skills to develop their activities with light and lanterns. And people who are far from the labour market and who are long-term unemployed often lack the necessary knowledge and experience. That is why it is important that we invest in education for those who are furthest from it, that they receive basic secondary education and that they progress. However, it is also important that people in the middle of their professional life are given better opportunities to change by re-training and skills, so that they can take the jobs where it is absolutely crucial to have the right skills to develop their activities. I am also thinking of the large investments that are now taking place in northern Sweden, 1 000 billion in new companies. These are new green jobs that are at stake and the importance of these companies getting the right skills in order for us to succeed in the green transition. That is why, as I have said, training efforts are important. Today, the government and the cooperation parties have been able to present how we take care of the parties' agreement on LAS, security and transition, which will provide greater flexibility for companies, greater security for employees and better opportunities to replenish new knowledge and skills in an entire working life. It will also improve opportunities for employers to find the right skills, which is crucial for Swedish competitiveness and for Swedish adaptability. In the case of those who are far from the labour market, who lack basic knowledge, it is of course a question of ensuring that those with educational needs study. That is why we have also expanded the knowledge boost very powerfully over a number of years. Madam President, if I count the efforts made from the entry into office of Stefan Löfven, during the last term of office and until the year we are now in, then the investments correspond to 150 000 places of education, and this at all levels: comvux, university of applied sciences and colleges. If we had not expanded the education system as vigorously as we have, the situation would have been considerably tougher. Now we are well equipped and need to make sure that people really step into education and take the opportunity to use the time as unemployed to replenish with new skills, so that you stand stronger when the wheels start spinning again and the economy begins to turn.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-704	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour refers to the financial crisis and to the increase in long-term unemployment during the financial crisis. Yes, of course it was. It is no wonder that unemployment and long-term unemployment are increasing during a financial crisis or during a pandemic. But the fact that it is increasing so much and so dramatically now is serious. It is also serious that long-term unemployment increased during the economic boom of 2014– 2019. It's a very bad rating to the government. I can only say that we have higher long-term unemployment today than we had when the Alliance gave up power in 2014. In fact, I think that is serious, given that this government started its reign with five years of very strong economic boom. Yet unemployment went the wrong way. The Minister for Labour repeats all the efforts you make and all the billions you put in, but it is evident that they are not helping. You have failed in both prosperity and recession. Your actions do not work against unemployment. It doesn't matter how much tax money we put into measures that don't work. Again, you actually promised that we would be the best in Europe by 2020 in terms of unemployment. Now we're almost the worst. Only three countries in the EU have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. For the first time since joining the EU, Sweden has higher unemployment than the EU average. It's never happened before. Then I also received no reply from the Minister for Labour to who was investigating what happened in the rest of Europe and who came to the conclusion that the reason why unemployment in Sweden is higher than in other countries is that people have stopped looking for jobs in other countries. The Minister for Labour has not been able to rely on any single basis on this. I find it extremely strange to claim one thing without being able to prove it in any way at all. And in which countries it is not possible to register as unemployed, I have also not received an answer. I can only regret that.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-710	Madam President, I would like I'd love to get the ground. I have powerpoint images from a press briefing that I had. It focused on, among other things, labour market participation and development in the last spring, so it is available. It is not true, as Jan Ericson says here, that the measures taken by the government do not matter. We have very strong evidence that a lot of the investments we make actually matter. Labour market training is a very effective tool to match employers' needs for skills with people's ability to study and then get into work. Vocational training is also effective. The university of applied sciences has very good results. Even subsidised employment is an important tool for people who are far removed from the labour market. This is why I am looking forward to being able to present the start-up jobs in time. It is an example of a structural reform in which the government takes action. An employer will be able to hire one person for about $400 a month. It will be easy for the employer to hire, because the state will replenish. The government is putting all its effort into developing new reforms to create a structurally better and more well-functioning labour market. This is done both through the partnership agreement that I told you about earlier today and by reforming Arbetsförmedlingen and taking measures such as start-up jobs and intensive years. This debate will continue. It is important that we debate unemployment and ensure that we break long-term unemployment so that it does not get stuck.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-715	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I and the government are having talks with the UN to change and improve civilian efforts in Mali, whether we have invested in new innovative measures in the Swedish strategy for bilateral development cooperation with Mali in 2021 – 2025 in comparison with the previous strategy and what evaluation and analysis of the previous development cooperation strategy was the basis for the new one. I will begin by commenting on the latest events in the country. We are closely following the worrying developments in Mali on the occasion of another military coup. We support the efforts of E cowas and the African Union to contribute to a peaceful solution and return to constitutional order. An E cowas delegation, including mediator Goodluck Jonathan, visited Mali last week. Thanks to our broad commitment to peace and development in Mali, Sweden is also part of the extensive international work that is now under way. Within the UN and the EU, but also within the E cowas and the African Union, appropriate action is now under consideration. Our embassies in Bamako and Paris as well as our representations in New York and Brussels are actively involved in the discussions. Mali is one of the world's poorest countries characterised by widespread poverty and vulnerability, major security challenges caused by terrorism and other organised crime and a lack of respect for human rights. The overall efforts of the international community are important to assist Mali in reversing developments, but they are also implemented in a very challenging context. I would also like to stress that efforts to strengthen security promote the conditions for the implementation of development efforts in Mali, which in turn are necessary in order to achieve sustainable and peaceful development in the country in the long term. Sweden has a very extensive and growing commitment to development and security in Mali. Sweden's combined efforts in the country include development cooperation, humanitarian aid, extensive human contributions to both UN operation M inusma and the task force Task Force Takuba, as well as contributions to EU activities. Sweden is also one of the largest donors of core support to many UN organisations active in Mali. The government conducts an ongoing dialogue with the UN on how global work on both aid and security can be developed. Dialogue is also conducted with the UN system and other actors on the ground in Mali via our embassy in Bamako. In summary, our new development cooperation strategy 2021 – 2025 will contribute to promoting democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, conflict prevention, gender equality and broad environmental efforts. Activities continue broadly in the same direction as in the previous strategy, but some adjustments have been made. For example, Sida is expected to work with enhanced access to sexual and reproductive health and rights, and the mission of the Folke Bernadotte Academy has been broadened. We have indicated in the strategy that we should take advantage of the links between long-term development cooperation, peace promotion and humanitarian aid. The potential of digitalisation and innovation as a tool for achieving objectives shall be exploited when relevant. We have also stated that Sida will look at how other financial resources can be stimulated to contribute to development in Mali. The Swedish development cooperation is continuously evaluated and followed up. The development of the new strategy for development cooperation is based, among other things, on the in-depth strategy reports of the Sida and Folke Bernadotte Academy for development cooperation with Mali 2016 – 2020 as well as an ongoing dialogue with Sida, the FBA and the Embassy in Bamako. We have also closely followed and taken account of developments in the country in the development of the strategy.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-726	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Last year, Sweden gave more than SEK 300 million in aid to Mali. It obliges us, because it is tax money that we are responsible for. The question then has to be asked: Are we doing the right thing? Tax money should be used efficiently and properly. Taking responsibility for the economy is the foundation of Moderate politics. The security situation in Mali remains unstable and continues to deteriorate with frequent terrorist attacks now soon throughout the country – despite major international efforts. The difficult humanitarian situation in the country contributes to social dissatisfaction and ethnic tensions between populations, and protests and demonstrations can arise at short notice. The security situation in the capital Bamako is relatively calm but can of course change rapidly. In the rest of the country, it's more worried and dangerous. There have been shootings of Malian security forces and property belonging to the UN and UN-contracted personnel. The situation in Central Mali has deteriorated continuously for a few years and is currently characterised by violent conflicts between different groups, food security crises, terrorist acts and kidnappings. The state presence in Central Mali is very low. When I wrote this interpellation in April we had just been reached by the news that three Swedish soldiers had been wounded after they hit a mine. Since then there has been another military coup in Mali. Colonel Assimi Goita poked the President and Prime Minister just nine months after the same Goita appointed them leader of a transitional government after overthrowing the democratically elected President. The country has long been marked by unrest. The military has the support of many people who are tired of the government not being able to overcome domestic violence. The situation in Mali has been unstable since 2012 when uprisings in the northern part of the country contributed to a military coup. Despite a peace agreement, the fighting has spread, and ethnic violence has flared up in Central Mali, among others. Today, the country is led by a military junta, ruled by Colonel Assimi Goita, who has completed no less than two military coups in less than a year. Sweden paused its aid to Mali last August after the country's president was put away in the coup d'état. The reason was that there was uncertainty as to how the country was governed and who was in control of the money flows. At the end of 2020, aid payments to Mali were resumed. Now the government has again decided to freeze parts of the aid to Mali. The reason is once again a military coup. When things get worse and the country is run by a military junta, will Sweden just continue as usual with the same support to civil society and multilateral organisations? I'm thinking their situation has changed pretty bad. How flexible and changing is Sweden in its efforts? Perhaps more of the same is not the solution. In the talks with the UN to which the Minister refers, there is a very important point to be made. But what measures lead to real improvements and changes? I would like an answer to that.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-737	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that I really share the interpellier's concern about developments in Mali, a country with major challenges in a number of areas. It becomes particularly clear when another military coup has now been carried out. This means that we in Mali operate in a very challenging context and that there are a large number of international actors in the country, including in development cooperation. We see the importance of international actors such as Ecowas, the African Union and the UN in the country, even in times of crisis such as this, and that support for them is important. Our development cooperation in Mali makes a difference. Many of our efforts contribute to changes that will manifest themselves over time. Sometimes it can be difficult to see the results immediately, but let me mention a few examples where we see that we have achieved results through Swedish aid, among other things. Through Sweden's support via Sida to UNICEF for actions related to the protection of children, social safety nets and access to water and sewage, 110 000 people have been given permanent access to drinking water only in 2020. In addition, over 172 000 people in over 180 Malian communities have had access to sanitation. In addition, 47 000 children in emergency situations have received psychosocial support and nearly 8 000 children have received efforts to prevent gender-based violence. Support has resulted in 42 000 young girls benefiting from preventive measures against child marriage. In addition, nearly 300 girls and women who have survived female genital mutilation and forced marriages have received medical, social or legal assistance. Within the framework of the Folke Bernadotte Academy's work on peace building, we have focused on Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security and its subsequent resolutions on Mali. At the beginning of 2020, a high-level meeting was organised to increase women's participation in the peace process and politics, with the participation of the Swedish Mediation Network for Women. The meeting has resulted in a number of concrete commitments to ensure the formal and informal participation of women, including a greater representation in the 2015 National Network or the Implementation Committee for the Peace Agreement. With a new military coup, it is clear that we do not know exactly what is coming and what is to come in Mali. In addition to our development cooperation, we also contribute humanitarianly. Our humanitarian aid prioritises those who are most vulnerable and most difficult to reach. We work with the Red Cross Committee and UN funds and programmes for life-saving efforts and access to food, nutrition, water, human rights and the protection of internally displaced persons and other vulnerable groups. Humanitarian aid, of course, also helps to reduce humanitarian needs in the long term and to try to bridge the gap between emergency aid and longer-term solutions. With the EU, we work with civilian experts for their training effort and with police officers to Minusma. And we are contributing to the EU's development efforts in Mali in general and, as I mentioned, we are one of the largest donors of nuclear aid to several UN agencies operating and also of troops contributions to Minusma and Task Force Takuba, as we know. Swedish aid is available in Mali because it is a challenging context. It's hard, but we also see that we can make a difference.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-744	Madam President, I would like Despite everything the minister listed, things are getting worse in Mali. I was previously involved in the government's talks with the UN, and there is another question to which it would have been interesting to find an answer. It would have been good to hear how the talks with the UN have gone about the vaccination of our Swedish soldiers. The UN calls on countries to vaccinate the troops sent to one of the world's most dangerous countries. Despite this, Swedish soldiers have not been prioritised in the vaccination queue. Then I wonder: how has the government reasoned there, and what have our colleagues in the UN said in those talks? The minister was into drinking water. I was in Mali almost two years ago, and what I remember most is perhaps garbage. It was garbage in drifts, garbage that was burned up to spread in the fields where crops would then grow and garbage whose pollution flows straight into the groundwater when the rain comes, straight into the drinking water for the 110 000 people the minister was in. In the government's strategy, both the new and the old, there are clear missions on climate and environment, yet such a basic thing as helping them with their garbage does not seem to be a priority. I wonder why, Madam President. It should help with both better drinking water and better crops, both leading to better health. Up at the camp in Timbuktu garbage was sorted almost like we do at home in Sweden. It was incredibly nice, orderly and great to see. Then a garbageman came and fetched it all, poured it on the same truck and drove out into a field to burn it. It'll be a little wrong then. How will the Government's goal of achieving sustainable and resilient agriculture with a focus on improving food security and livelihood in Mali be achieved in real terms? Food and drinking water are essential and need real help. Such an effort, I think, would have been much more worth our climate than a plastic bag tax. Madam President, I would like Already two years ago, the general view in Mali was that there were differences in military and civilian operations and that they were not synchronised. Therefore, I have asked the Minister whether the Minister and the Government have invested in some new innovative measures in the strategy for Sweden's development cooperation with Mali in 2021 – 2025, compared to the previous one, and if so, what? I get the answer that Sida gets an expanded mission, but I wonder where the political ideas for a real improvement for Mali are? I lack innovative proposals for such a change. The military operations are working well. They have worked well in Minusma, and the new troops in the Task Force Takuba operation are in place. On the other hand, it is reported that there are problems with civil intervention. These do not reach all the way through and lack of efficiency. To go back to what I started my last speech with, Sweden last year gave more than SEK 300 million in aid to Mali. Does the Minister think that the Minister and the Government have received sufficient follow-up and evaluation to be able to say with a good conscience that we are doing the right things – the right things even in a country that is under a coup after a coup? Because it's tax money that we're responsible for. Are we doing the right thing? It is a question that is important to ask yourself all the time. It may be a good time to screw on the stakes in order for them to get better. Is this something that the Minister is prepared to do?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-753	Madam President, I would like Interpellan Alexandra Anstrell himself began her introductory speech by describing developments in Mali as a country. Mali is in place 184 out of 188 countries in the European Human Development Index 2020, which is an improvement compared to previous years. Yet Mali is so far down the list. More than one third of the adult population is literate, the expected life expectancy is under 60 years and 62 out of 1,000 live-born children die within five years. Yet all these indicators have improved in recent years in Mali. The challenges are enormous. Mali is a large country, three times the size of Sweden. The climate, the security situation, the economic opportunities and the income sources of the population differ greatly in different parts of the country. Unemployment is high, the education system is malfunctioning and food insecurity is a major problem for many. Climate change and high population growth make it difficult for people in fisheries and agriculture to operate. To meet the great needs of Mali, Sweden has increased the volume of development cooperation. In the previous strategy, we allocated 1.2 billion. Now we have increased it to 2 billion between 2021 and 2025. Our assessment is that the overall approach is appropriate. We will continue to contribute to peace and reconciliation, improving gender equality, improving the environment, strengthening biodiversity and sustainable and resilient agriculture. Given the major challenges of climate change globally, especially for countries such as Mali, we have also included climate mitigation targets and increased resilience to climate change in the new strategy. This is important for dealing with natural resource-related conflicts in the country. As of this strategic period, the Folke Bernadotte Academy will contribute to security sector reform in Mali. It lays a foundation or a piece in the puzzle that allows for increased interaction between civilian security operations, civilian operations funded by aid and other commitments and commitment to security in Mali. We have been clear from the government that direct cooperation with state actors can only take place in Mali after very careful risk assessment. And the reasons we've seen, with two military coups in a short time. Work on a new strategy involves the authorities developing a plan for implementation, a plan for follow-up, change theories, thematic analyses such as poverty analysis and gender equality analysis, conflict analysis and more. The basis for further work is the reports that have been received from the authorities and, of course, the analysis of the situation in the country and the relations that we have in the country made by the embassy. There is therefore a lot of work and a lot of dialogue and analysis before a new strategy is completed. With this strategy and an increased Swedish commitment also in the field of aid in Mali, I believe that we can contribute better to meeting the challenges that the country has and also cooperate more and better with the international actors in the country, including the non-civil ones. It is indeed the case, as the interpellier also says, that we must find a coordinated effort in which various efforts also reinforce each other so that we can help Mali out of the enormous crisis that it is in.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-763	Madam President, I would like Is it right to do more of the same in one of the world's most dangerous countries, where the security situation is really bad? You can't see very many women in the peace talks or in other leading positions. Does the plan for greater equality work? Last Thursday, the French Government announced that it would stop all joint operations with the Malian army pending guarantees of a return to civilian rule in the country. Swedish soldiers in the counter-terrorism operation Task Force Takuba are affected by the decision, as they are subject to the French leadership, which is now being moved from Mali to Paris. The EU has unanimously condemned the coup and called for the transition to civilian rule to take place. As the Minister was aware, Ecowas has been in place and attempts are being made to have peace talks and civil rule. It is now more than ever important that the right choices are made to enable a return to civilian rule. If Ecowas concludes that other measures are needed, are the Minister and the Swedish Government prepared to change Sweden's efforts? Are you prepared to depart from the Swedish strategy that has been decided on? In the Swedish strategy for development cooperation with Mali, there is a series of results monitoring – that it should primarily respond to whether the business made a difference, how and for whom. I think that's great. Thumbs up for it. However, I do not find it in the previous strategy. Then my question is: Has the government not been aware of this before? For a very long time now we have supported with a lot of money. Yet the situation has deteriorated considerably. Again, my question is: Can the Minister, the hand on the heart, feel confident that we are doing the right things?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-769	Madam President, I would like Swedish aid is result-oriented and effective. And maybe we're the world's leader in follow-up. In any case, the international evaluations and measurements of aid actors show that this is the case. This also applies, of course, to our commitment and our way of working in Mali. Yeah, with your hand on it, we're working on the right questions in Mali. The fact that women are not at the table is why we must ensure and work to support women's organisation and their voices and enable them to take their place at the negotiating table where they are missing today. The fact that developments do not turn around overnight because of Swedish aid efforts must surely be respected, especially in such a fragile and weak context as Mali. We are closely following the worrying developments. We support Ecowas and the African Union. We have close talks with the UN and with the EU and, of course, with France on this development. We are flexible in Swedish aid. It's one of our forces. The new strategy is also flexible and enables Sida to reprogram and reprogram, enter into new agreements and end old ones based on how the world now chooses to coordinate for Mali. Of course, we must continue to do so. The overall aim now is for us to have a constitutional order of democratic institutions respected in Mali, an inclusive dialogue and a functioning transition process culminating in democratic free and fair elections in Mali. It's urgent. From there we can then continue working on a development for Mali to meet all the challenges that the country has. We have frozen support. We did that after the first coup. We have now waited again after this coup. That is how we have to do in a situation so fragile and in a context as weak as that of Mali. But we continue to be there, and we continue to try to be a good support.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-775	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder has asked me what measures I intend to take in view of the fact that the cost-effectiveness of the guarantee instrument is seen as a challenge on Sida. We have recently debated guarantee activities in this House, and I believe that we agree on its importance in development cooperation to mobilise additional resources for poverty reduction and Agenda 2030. The global recovery that is now needed has great potential to use guarantees to make economies more inclusive, more equal and more sustainable. The warranty instrument has a strong catalytic effect. It is innovative and flexible, can be applied in different contexts and can be targeted at different target groups. We have seen many examples of this. The warranty activities at Sida are fully integrated into development cooperation and contribute to achieving the development policy objective. In fact, Sida has as much as 45 ongoing g aranties within the framework of 24 bilateral a, regional and thematic strategies. There are also challenges. Guarantees remain an activity under construction and development. The current model of stand-alone guarantees has existed for more than ten years and began as a small-scale experiment. Demand is high, but the activity also requires active outreach to be able to find opportunities to use guarantees where they have the greatest development impact. G aranties are often complex, take time to design and often require technical expertise on financial instruments and markets. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its report that Sida has mainly created good conditions for using guarantees. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that Sida's internal governance and organisation has increased employees' ability to assess the relevance of guarantees in the implementation of strategies. However, the R.I.K. audit has also observed certain challenges, such as the fact that several employees in interviews have indicated that they feel that the incentives are stronger to use instruments other than guarantees in development cooperation. Guarantee work is also resource-intensive. However, the Swedish National Audit Office has not been able to assess whether this has actually led Sida's staff to opt out of guarantees over other instruments. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that Sida has taken measures to streamline the preparation of guarantees. The fact that there are challenges does not mean that the warranty business is not a priority on Sida. Sida has prioritised and gradually increased resources and competence within the agency for this particular purpose. The Authority has clarified the role of guarantee operations in internal governance and in the Authority's operational planning. Sida continues to strengthen the organisation and plans for continued resource enhancement. The government has been clear in its governance that Sida will mobilise resources through guarantees, which is also confirmed by the Swedish National Audit Office. A new Guarantee Regulation entered into force in 2019. There is adequate governance in Sida's instructions, in regulatory letters and in strategies. The government has gradually increased the guarantee framework. The Government has also increased Sida's administrative grant, with reference, among other things, to the guarantee operations, which R Iksrevision estimates has improved the conditions for financing operations. Guarantees and other forms of development cooperation are complementary. Actions financed with grants are in many cases central to, for example, strengthening human rights and supporting the development of democratic and transparent institutions. Each operation carried out shall deliver results and be implemented in a cost-effective manner. The measures that I have described here contribute to Sida's increasingly choosing to work with guarantees in different contexts. The Government will also continue to follow Sida's efforts to develop the warranty business.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-784	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although I do not think I really got an answer to the question. The background to this interpellation is the debate that took place in the Riksdag in response to the Government's letter that comments on the Swedish National Audit Office's review report, which examines Sida's and the Government's work with guarantees. Madam President, I would like The Government describes guarantees as a good tool in aid, and that is a picture I fully share. Let me just say a few words about what Sida's guarantee instrument is. Guarantees are an instrument where Sida shares risk with a bank or investor. By representing the risk, other and significantly larger capital flows can be mobilised for projects that would not otherwise have received loans or investments. According to Sida, SEK 1 paid in subsidies mobilizes SEK 70 in external capital. Guarantees are a fantastic instrument that truly acts as a lever for creating new and larger capital flows, and if guarantees are given to the right type of project, it must indeed be seen as effective aid. The money is multiplied, projects that would otherwise not have received funding get it and that includes private investors. What is the problem, Madam President? The background to this interpellation, as I said, is the debate that took place in this House in connection with the review of the guarantee instrument by the Swedish National Audit Office. In the review report, the Swedish National Audit Office highlighted a number of challenges regarding the use of guarantees, and one of the challenges highlighted is that the guarantee instrument is cost-effective. I repeat: the cost-effectiveness of the guarantee instrument was thus highlighted as a challenge. The Government does not seem to be particularly concerned about this, and in the debate on the matter that took place here in April, the Government even accused my colleague Helena Antoni of having come up with challenges linked to the effective use of guarantees. Madam President, I would like The fact that Minister Olsson accused my colleague in the debate of having come up with challenges in the use of the guarantee instrument is the background to this interpellation. I understand that this is something that the Government is not very proud of and something that the Government would like to tone down. It has to be described as almost scandalous that cost-effectiveness is seen as a challenge. However, it is also not surprising given the current focus on disbursement targets rather than performance targets in the field of aid. Madam President, I would like The fact that cost-effectiveness and the fact that the guarantee instrument does not generate large disbursements of aid funds are seen as a challenge is an effect of the 1% target. We disagree with the 1% target, me and the Government. Among other things, the Moderates make a different budget priority than the government, but we also see the negative effects of the 1% target – and we want to do something about it. The Swedish National Audit Office's review report on the guarantee instrument is another example of the negative impact of the 1% target. Madam President, I would like Does the Government not see that the fact that the cost-effectiveness of the guarantee instrument is seen as a challenge is an effect of the 1% target? I also repeat my question: What measures will the Government take in view of the fact that the cost-effectiveness of the guarantee instrument is seen as a challenge at Sida? Finally, I wonder: does the Government think that this is problematic?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-793	Madam President, I would like Just as the Government stated in its response to Magdalena Schröder's interpellation, we recently debated the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Sida's warranty operations. I think it was a good debate in which the different views of the parties were clearly expressed. In my speech, I called for respect for taxpayers' money, and other parties called for increased aid in the wake of the pandemic. I then lifted exactly what Magdalena Schröder addresses in the interpellation, namely that the fact that the guarantee instrument is cost-effective is seen as a challenge by the employees at Sida. Use is removed because it generates small or no payments. If you are a little familiar with the field of aid, it is relatively easy to see that it is the 1% target that lies and haunts here. That Sweden has as its goal to pay out a certain amount of money in aid you can think what you want, but when the effect is that cost-effective instruments are removed, I think it is time to reconsider. I believe that this is an unsustainable and disrespectful way of dealing with taxpayers' money. Something cost-effective that can make a great deal of use in the world should be used to a large extent, not avoided. During the debate, when I raised this problem in a change of line with the Government, I was given the answer: Helena Antoni himself has made it up. I may be relatively new to the Riksdag, Madam President, and I and the Government may disagree on the political direction and governance of Swedish aid. However, to respond to a Member who raises real problems with that attitude seems to me to be spectacular. So I am not lying in the speaker's chair, Madam President. To simplify things and assure everyone who listens to this debate that I am neither making up nor trying to be fooled, however, I thought to read directly from the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Sida's guarantee instrument. On page 6 you can read:中 People also feel that Sida's management prioritises the disbursement of aid funds over the mobilisation of capital. ..................................................... On page 34, it says: a number of factors make it difficult for employees to use guarantees. Several employees feel that there are stronger incentives to use other instruments to implement the aid. For example, employees feel that internal monitoring prioritises the disbursement of aid funds over capital mobilisation through guarantees. ..................................................... It then refers to the fact that guarantees generate little or no payments, Madam President. I now wonder whether the Government also took note of this description of problems in the report and whether he is ready to revise his response to me.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-802	Madam President, I would like I think it is excellent that Helena Antoni read directly from the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It's true that that's how they describe this, but it's also so that they can't assess whether it has actually led to Sida's staff opting out of guarantees over other instruments. Nor does the Swedish National Audit Office write anywhere in the extract we heard here anything about the 1% target, and that is what I referred to in our previous discussion in the case debate: That the 1% target would be an obstacle or stand in the way of the guarantee instrument is not something that the Swedish National Audit Office describes at all, but that is exactly what the Moderates have actually made up for themselves. However, this is an interpellation about Sida's guarantee instrument, and I believe it. I very much agree with what the interpeller said in his introduction on the importance of the guarantee instrument. It's an amazing instrument, we were told, and I can only agree. This is also why the government has both increased the volume of the guarantee instrument and strengthened Sida's capacity to continue working with and develop the guarantee instrument. The Moderates should think that is extremely good, but it still does not sound that way in this debate. I have just returned from Kenya, where I met a partner of Sida who takes part of the guarantee instrument. I met a woman named Victoria Sabula and is the head of an African investment fund for start-ups focusing on conversion and renewable energy. Everything is very small. In the meeting with me, she shared her commitment to obtaining funding for solar cells in Kenyan countryside, among other things. She has grown up without electricity, but has also experienced the change of access to electricity. This gave her the conviction that a changed future for many of the world's poor needs to go through access to sustainable and green electricity, and I share that conviction. As a child, my mother sent me to the woods with careful instructions as to what wood and how much I would come back with. The older I got, the more expectations increased as to how much I could bear. But that does not have to be the case for future generations. This is what she expressed herself at her meeting with me. With the help of the guarantee instrument, small-scale farmers and farmers in Kenya have been given opportunities that come with electricity and electrification. They can pack better and smarter, cool down, increase harvest sustainability, refine and access more and larger markets. This often happens together with traditional grants and capacity development. Our various tools in the aid box complement each other; they do not contradict each other. They do not evolve in spite of each other, but thanks to each other. People like Victoria carry change. She creates and enables change, and it is only to be humbly inspired. I am pleased that Swedish aid makes both people and markets grow and that we enable the forest to remain.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-810	Madam President, I would like The Government sees no link between the 1% target and the fact that an instrument is cost-effective is seen as a challenge by Sida. If you don't see the problems, it's hard to do anything about them. I think most people think it is a great scandal that cost-effectiveness is seen as a challenge. For those who are not familiar with the Swedish National Audit Office's review report, I was also going to read a few lines from it, Madam President. The report really illustrates the impact of the 1% target. I read from page 40 and chapter 4.4, Challenges in the use of guarantees. Most of Sida's activities are about implementing the strategies by paying out funds to suitable actors who implement assistance efforts. However, the issue of guarantees does not generate any, or relatively small, payments of aid. This creates a tension between reaching payout targets and mobilizing capital via guarantees, according to several employees at Sida. ..................................................... A few lines further down are the following: a number of employees at both strategic units and at the guarantee unit feel that there is more pressure to pay out aid funds than to mobilise capital. This means, for example, that payments are monitored more closely, according to the employees. This is why employees feel that incentives are stronger to use instruments other than guarantees in strategy implementation. ..................................................... I repeat: this creates a tension between reaching payout targets and mobilising capital, Madam President, and several employees feel that there is pressure to pay out aid funds. Does the Government not see that the 1% target leads to cost-effectiveness being seen as a challenge and that it leads to pressure to spend money over mobilizing capital? Does the Government not see that the 1% target in this case leads to a cost-effective method that does not generate large payments of tax revenue while ensuring large capital flows to development projects at risk of being removed? And, Madam President, does the Government stand by its statement that the fact that the one-percent target leads to Sida prioritising payments over guarantees is something that the Moderates have invented?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-817	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for the answer to my last question. I think it is very important that the government and opposition have mutual respect for each other. We do not think the same on all issues, and that must still be okay – that's how democracy works. The Government is responsible for the government's aid, and I am responsible for the aid for the Moderates. Despite our differences, we can probably say that the intention is the same. I think we both want to see a world free from poverty and oppression, and I think we will both do everything we can to contribute to that development. However, as both I and my colleague have said – I apologise for the fact that there is a lot of repetition here – it is clear in the report that cost-effectiveness is seen as a challenge by the employees at Sida. This cannot be a responsible way of dealing with taxpayers' money. I believe that the 1% target is behind this approach. When the overall objective is to come up with a specific amount of money, cost-effectiveness can easily be seen as a problem rather than an opportunity. That is precisely why the Moderates do not think this is a reasonable principle to follow, Madam President. The focus must be on results – not on how much money we pay out. But if the Government does not believe that this is due to the 1% target, I would like to ask a perfectly honest and open question: what does the Government think it is because of? Why is Sida prioritising payments over guarantees, and why is there the press, as my colleague described, to generate as large a payout as possible? Madam President, I would like Where does this approach come from if not from the 1% target?
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-824	Madam President, I would like It was very good that we once again heard directly from the Swedish National Audit Office's report. This time again, we did not hear any direct connection from the Swedish National Audit Office to the one per cent target. It has not been possible to assess whether this challenge – which of course exists – exists, otherwise it would not have been included in the report – has actually led Sida's staff to opt out of guarantees in favour of other instruments. We also heard from Helena Antoni that she actually thinks that this is linked to the 1% target, and it was good that we had to sort this out. The Moderates have now repeatedly tried to use the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the guarantee instrument as an argument for their own proposals to cut aid, although there is therefore no direct link between the 1% target and the challenges pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office. It's a shame, I think, but it's not surprising. In the past, the Moderates have tried to argue for reduced aid by referring to the need for aid to be more effective. However, when international studies have shown that Sweden is at the top in terms of aid in terms of both results and effectiveness and in terms of follow-up, this argument has decreased somewhat. The Moderates have also tried to argue for reduced aid on the grounds that there is widespread corruption in the world, perhaps especially in weak states, where the challenges are great and poverty widespread. When the government has shown the importance we attach to anti-corruption work, both as a thematic entry point into development cooperation and as regards how we strengthened Sida's ability to follow up aid on the ground, these arguments have also slowed down. Now the Moderates are once again trying to find arguments for their cuts in aid by interpreting – almost misinterpreting – an otherwise very good and welcome report from the Swedish National Audit Office. I would like to repeat this again: there is no correlation between the challenges and development opportunities of the guarantee instrument and the 1% target as a financing method for Swedish development cooperation. I recommend the Moderates to book a study visit to Sida, where together with the staff you can immerse yourself in these challenges and how to access them. Swedish development cooperation aims to improve the conditions for people living in poverty and under oppression. We contribute to global sustainable development. Our toolbox is wide. It includes capacity development, policy development, support for innovation, long-term development projects and humanitarian aid. We take down the risks for investors, contribute to efforts for peace and much more. Once again, our various tools complement each other; they are not contradictory. They do not evolve in spite of each other, but thanks to each other.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-834	Madam President, I would like It is a central question that has not been answered in this interpellation debate, and it is whether the Government finds the challenges outlined in the report problematic. The Government obviously does not see the negative effects of the 1% target. The Moderates do. That is why we have proposed a different principle of budgeting for aid, where the aim is not to spend a certain percentage of BNI each year. I fully respect the fact that different budgetary priorities are being set, but I find it remarkable that the Government cannot see the disadvantages of the 1% target and that the Moderates model with a multiannual financial framework for aid is better. A framework could, in theory, be provided with any amount of money. If we want to continue spending twice as much money on aid as the police, we can do so with a framework. I think it is a wrong budget priority, and I and the Government can agree that we do not agree on what amount we should spend on aid. However, the Government should also be able to see the negative impact of the current budgetary model in terms of the 1% target. But if you don't see the problem, it's hard to do anything about it. Guarantees are a fantastic instrument that properly managed can make a big difference, and it is totally unacceptable that this effective instrument should be removed because it does not spend enough money. Aid is in great need of reform, and cost-effectiveness should be seen as a guiding principle, not a challenge. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have several reforms for more effective aid, but, as I said, they also need to see the problems in order to be able to do something about them.
i-3d2b0523a3b0baae-840	Madam President, I would like The government has, of course, submitted a letter that shows and responds to how we view the Swedish National Audit Office's report – a report that nowhere, despite attempts to assert it in the debate in this House, says that the 1% target would be part of the challenges or opportunities that exist with the guarantee instrument. So this connection has been made up by the Moderates themselves. I think the Moderates would need to find some new and other arguments to reduce aid. My suggestion or recommendation is that you look in the pile where your real arguments lie. It is not because you believe in Swedish aid or want more with Swedish aid. I believe that you do not really believe that development issues are a foundation of our international relations and of global cooperation. You think that Sweden is too small a country to take leadership on the destiny of our time. Yet it is in aid that we do so, whether the Moderates want it or not. You do not think we need to be involved in tackling the root causes of climate change and people fleeing. This is what we need to do with the moderate reduction in aid. Somewhere there is a moderate political reflex which says that the gaps must increase. This is what drives the proposal to reduce Swedish aid. Aid will be reduced because the Moderates want room in the budget to lower the tax here in Sweden. Talk about a policy of widening gaps in the world and here at home! Somewhere there, I think the real moderate arguments for this policy lie. I think it would also be good if you said it instead.
