i-701331436ae0b94d-4	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me when Sweden gets a simple system for charging electric vehicles at public charging points and what concrete measures I take to make this happen. Jens Holm has also asked me about my assessment of how many public charging points need to be in 2030. Since last autumn, when I and Jens Holm last debated this issue in this House, I have had continuous dialogue with the industry on uniform payment solutions for electric car charging. Last week, on 7 April, I met large parts of the industry to discuss their proposals for solutions. The charging infrastructure industry is still new, and it is important to give the market time and confidence to solve the problems that are discovered before we identify market failures and go in with regulation. I am convinced that together we will move forward on this issue shortly. Furthermore, Jens Holm asks how large I estimate that the number of public charging points need to be until 2030. Climate change has so far granted support for more than 30 000 charging points, an important contribution to the fact that today there is approximately one public charging point per 20 rechargeable passenger cars in Sweden. The rechargeable passenger cars, both pure electric cars and charging hybrids, already make up 4% of the passenger car fleet, and most of the charging takes place when the vehicles are parked at home or at the workplace. What is essential is that access to charging, both public and non-public, needs to be sufficient to cope with the electrification of the transport sector that is needed to achieve our climate goals. The government has initiated a number of measures to monitor the electrification of the transport sector in order to take further action if necessary. For example, the effort to expand fast charging along the major roads, where it is not commercially profitable, has now been successfully launched by the Swedish Transport Administration. The first call has contributed to support for 20 public high-speed charging stations divided into seven counties, also in the hinterland of Norrland, where the main shortcomings are today. The Swedish Energy Agency has also been tasked with the help of Lantmäteriet and Boverket to propose measures for better access to charging infrastructure, regardless of the form of accommodation. That assignment will be reported at the end of the summer. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that the work on the electrification strategy is under way, and there charging infrastructure is one of the key issues being investigated.
i-701331436ae0b94d-10	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Energy for the answer to my interpellation. We know that we are facing a huge challenge: we are going to reduce our emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. There, rechargeable vehicles will play a very important role. But it is not so much worth for people to purchase a rechargeable vehicle if there is then a lot of hassle when loading the vehicle. That's about where we're standing today. Today it works so that the government through the Swedish Energy Agency provides support for building charging infrastructure. About half of the cost of setting up a charging post stands for the state. But there are no counterrequirements that the charging post should be easy to use, that there should be a standardised payment system etc. This has led to that anyone who drives a rechargeable vehicle and wants to charge it at a public charging post often encounters a myriad of different payment and start-up systems. It may be tiles that should be flashed or apps that need to be downloaded. Maybe you should swish money while in other places you can pay directly with a credit card. Some, usually municipalities, are exemplary in that there is no payment system at all, but just get started and charge the car. Unfortunately, all of this means that it is much more complicated than it would have to be. I and the Left Party believe that when we go in with as much government funding for the roll-out of public charging infrastructure, we should also counter-require it to be as user-friendly as possible. And, Madam President, I believe that a charging post along a state road should be regarded as part of the state infrastructure. Optimal would therefore have been if we used our money directly to let the Swedish Transport Administration, for example, build up the charging infrastructure along our state roads and then one could also have a standardised and simple charging system for this. We're not there today, and I'm sorry. I would like to reconnect with the previous debate that I had with the Minister for Energy on 15 September. Then I just raised these questions: that it must be easy to charge the electric car. Then the Minister for Energy replied to me this way: ..................................................... That Government of Ardalan ShekarabiS) in September, and now we write mid-April. And we still have no solution to this problem. It is still very difficult to charge a rechargeable vehicle at a public charging station. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: when will this problem be resolved? When do we have a simple and uniform charging and payment system for the public charging poles?
i-701331436ae0b94d-16	Madam President, I would like In the discussions I have with the industry, they mean that they have come a long way in this and that about 75% of the market will have the opportunity to be covered by what they call a uniform payment system in the spring. I have a slightly different opinion because their system requires you to have three different apps. I mean, we'd rather have a system where you're supposed to be able to pay with an app. So there is a slightly different view, but the industry and I are discussing further. I hope that an even more uniform system will be in place this year. It is worth pointing out that this is something we do in discussions with the industry. We are not considering, as Jens Holm wishes, the nationalisation of all these points, whether they are municipal, private or cooperative. Jens Holm believes that the charge should be part of the state road network and sort under Trafikverket. I want to ask Jens Holm: Do you mean in the same way that fossil fuels should go the same way? Are we going to nationalize the gas stations? Is it the Swedish Transport Administration's staff that's selling sausages along our roads? It must be the only reasonable analogy to Jens Holm's reasoning.
i-701331436ae0b94d-18	Madam President, I would like Then we have a new promise from the Minister for Energy, namely that the issue will be closer to a solution this year. When I debate with the Minister for Energy this time, he is not as clear. He can't promise that the issue of charging will be resolved even this year. This seems to me to be deeply problematic given the fact that it is our tax money that largely finances the public charging stations that are being installed. Why, Madam President, has the Minister for Energy not set any kind of conditions for receiving money to build public charging infrastructure, namely that electricity should also be delivered in the easiest way possible? Just as the Minister is on it should be an app and not 15 different and a card that you can pay with – not a variety of payment systems. I think this is a big understatement to the government. In the long time that has passed, these counter-requirements have not been met. I think there are well-meaning actors out there who want to solve this, but it is still the government that sits on the money and can set the conditions for the charging infrastructure that we are now building up and that might be there for decades to come. Madam President, I would like Then I think the Minister is a little dishonest when he debates. He says me and the Left Party want to nationalise the charging infrastructure system. What I am talking about is that our authorities, the Trafikverket, themselves should be able to dispose of the state funds allocated and build charging infrastructure along the state road network. I would also like to ask the Minister how he views the future. As it is now, we have about 10 000 public charging points in Sweden, largely financed by public funds. I read a report from the organisation Power Circle, an organisation that I know the Minister has had a lot to do with during these talks. There it is said that by 2030 we will need about 90 000 public charging points, almost ten times as many as there are today. If we are to build the charging infrastructure to such an extent, I think we need a much higher tempo than today. I would like to ask the Minister if he shares that picture: is it scale 10 that applies, so that there is a need for about ten times as many public charging places as today? Madam President, I would like I would also like to comment on the successful initiative that the Minister is talking about, which has managed to finance 20 public fast charging stations divided into seven different counties in northern Sweden. I do not believe that at that speed we will achieve the objectives we need to achieve in order to achieve the climate target of reducing emissions from the transport sector by 70%. So does this seem to us to be a successful and rapid expansion? And when these 20 public fast - charging stations have been built up, is there a uniform and simple payment system for them?
i-701331436ae0b94d-25	Madam President, I would like Either Jens Holm makes himself stupider than he is, or he pretends that reality looks different than it does. We already have a nationwide network of public charging points. There are 12,000 seats. We have two areas with white spots: the hinterland of Norrland and Småland's hinterland, and there are individual points in addition to that. Otherwise, it is nowhere on the basic national road network that you have more than 100 km to a public charging point. Please compare it with any other country in Europe or the EU! It is clear that these last points are very useful. Then Jens Holm asks if I agree with the conclusions of the Power Circles report. Well, I don't, because it won't be a linear structure. 90 - 95% of charging will take place at home and at work, i.e. not in public charging stations. Over time, the public charging stations will replace the reserve canister rather than the petrol stations. I think that's the analogy you're supposed to have in front of you. After all, the scope of our electric vehicles will continue to increase. Then Jens Holm says that he does not want to see government charging stations and that it should not be the foundation. You'll have to go back and read what you said yourself in the debate! This is what I listened to and questioned. But it doesn't matter very much. Skellefteå Kraft is now building together with OKQ8 350 public charging poles. How does Jens Holm want them to have a uniform payment solution? My model is that we gather the industry and come to an agreement on how to do this in the future. I think it will be successful. But note bene: If the industry is not able to solve this, I have no problem with making demands in connection with the support, although it may not solve so much because the support for the most part, as Jens Holm knows, is already paid out and used for the expansion. This does not change the situation of the 12 000 charging places we already have in Sweden. However, this changes for the additional ones, but it is a small proportion that will be built with support. I'm no stranger to regulation. I believe that we will see European regulation in the future. I also believe that what we see today as a payment solution is a transitory phenomenon. We already have an ISO standard for car charging, and I think that is what will be the future. I do not think, therefore, that you will have to show either card or badge, but the car itself will negotiate the whole thing with the charging post or the charging station. That is how I look at progress. Both payment systems and charging systems are in rapid technological development. This makes legislation particularly inappropriate. We run the risk of legislating on something that was yesterday's solution. I think that would be stupid. Instead, we will ensure that uniform payment standards are in place. We do so in cooperation with the industry, and we hope that the industry is sensitive to this. Jens Holm says I promise one thing or another. I am expressing what the industry has told me. Sometimes the industry has too high ambitions and sometimes too low. But I have to take the information you give to me seriously. As I said, I am prepared to use the legislative instrument if necessary, but I have also valued that instrument and have seen that it is a much worse instrument than to go forward voluntarily and together.
i-701331436ae0b94d-36	Madam President, I would like I believe that we have just explained why the expansion of public charging stations is so slow and that we have a uniform and simple system to use, namely that the Minister for Energy is satisfied with the situation as it is. He says that we already have an expanded charging infrastructure and that in virtually all places in Sweden there is a charging place less than ten miles away. But the problem is that many of the public charging places do not work for anyone who wants to use them. The payment systems are too complicated. The charging points aren't up and running. There is no national system to easily see where the nearest station is, if it works or if it is busy and so on. This concerns me, especially given that we are only at the beginning of the electric car revolution. We will have an incredible number of electric vehicles. This requires more charging places and a much simpler system. Once again, Madam President, I think the Minister is slipping on the wording. We have not talked about nationalising existing charging infrastructure. I say that we should make demands on how the money is spent, on our common funds, and that it is perhaps simpler and more reasonable that the Finnish Transport Agency itself should be allowed to extend for the money that we are allocating. I would like to conclude by asking the Minister what the way forward is. When does the Minister have the next meeting with the industry, and when will we see the next step towards developing a simple and uniform system for this? The way it works now is not good enough– that thing is quite clear.
i-701331436ae0b94d-40	Madam President, I would like Here we see Jens Holm's magic rope trick: By making demands of 20 stations 12 000 stations will be changed. What if it were that simple? We need to bring the heads of the 12 000 stations that have been built to solve the problem. We agree on the basic problem. That's why I've called a meeting with the industry long before Jens Holm started writing interpellations on the issue. That is why we have developed uniform solutions, and that is why we have special support for covering white spots. That is why more electric cars are sold in Sweden than in any other country in the EU. This is not due to the absence of state gas stations or state charging poles. There is a market power that drives this forward. The market is driving the development. We get more and more people who choose to drive an electric car. We're getting more and more charging points. That if anything should please Jens Holm, who is involved in the climate issue, I know, for many years. We can stand here and dwell on what is exactly the right number or not the right number and exactly where to lie, but basically we have a positive development. We sell the most electric cars in the EU. We have more charging places in sparsely populated areas than in any other country in the EU, in principle. We have lower electricity costs than most other countries in the EU, and we have a greater surplus of electricity than all countries in the EU. This will lead to a rapid technological shift in electric cars. With the electrification strategy that I started with in October, we will also have a large network of both charging and fast charging stations in Sweden – and that without having to nationalize a single petrol station.
i-701331436ae0b94d-45	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered has asked me what measures I plan to take in the near future to expand the margins of the power system. Furthermore, Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that Swedish grids comply with the requirements of the Electricity Market Regulation. Finally, Lars Hjälmered has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure sufficient power generation in southern Sweden in the long term. First of all, I would like to highlight our good conditions with regard to the supply of electricity in Sweden. We have, for example, low-carbon electricity production. We have competitive electricity prices that can benefit households and industry. We have plenty of electricity, and Sweden's record exports on an annual basis are a clear indication that electricity costs more in other countries. These advantages also mean that we are in a favourable position for the future electrification of industry and the transport sector. But there are also challenges that need to be solved, and Lars Hjälmered touches on some of these. It is important to remember that Svenska Kraftnät has a clear responsibility at least when it comes to the first two issues, but the government is of course actively working with several parts on these issues. In this context, I would also like to regret the fact that Lars Helmered's party, the Moderates, chose to leave the cooperation within the Energy Agreement where the kind of issues that Lars Helmered addresses were discussed in a broad political circle to enable as stable and long-term rules of the game as possible. With regard to the first question, the Government has decided, among other things, on a request to the Swedish Power Networks Administration to submit, if necessary, proposals for remuneration models and regulatory changes in relation to its mooring services and remedial measures. Furthermore, the new electricity connection Southwest will improve conditions in southern Sweden. With regard to the second question, it is somewhat unclear what Lars Hjälmered is referring to, but I can note that the Swedish National Agency for Swedish Power Networks has applied to the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate for exceptions to the requirement to make 70 per cent of interconnection capacity available per hour for certain foreign connections. The Swedish Energy Market Authority decided on such an exemption in December 2020. The Swedish Business Authority has developed a method of measures to be taken to solve the problems underlying the exemption. Finally, in response to the third question on the adequacy of power generation in southern Sweden, I would like to emphasise that I see several solutions in front of me, in particular the extension of renewable electricity production and the reinforcement of transmission networks for better transmission of electricity through the country. I can also note that the long-term scenarios from the State Energy Authority indicate that nuclear energy is also expected to form part of the energy mix for the foreseeable future. Nor should we underestimate, as part of the solution, the possibilities for future electricity users to be more flexible in their electricity use, to participate in the electricity market and thus also to save on their own electricity costs. Work is also underway on a national electrification strategy that will take a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector to contribute to the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification. It is also part of the work to develop a plan to address possible obstacles to increased electrification.
i-701331436ae0b94d-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers and the opportunity to discuss! Last summer, the situation became acute on the Swedish electricity market. The state was then forced to conclude an emergency agreement with Ringhals but also with the oil power plant in Karlshamn and with the gas power plant in Gothenburg so that the electricity system in southern Sweden would simply work. Since then, if possible, it has become more difficult with the Swedish electricity system, including after Ringhals 1 has been closed, with reduced margins. In front of us we have a desired large electrification, where we can change the industry and transport. It can mean a lot to new jobs in the country and a lot to the green transition. Experts talk not only about 50 but also about 75 and perhaps even about 100 percent, i.e. a doubling of Swedish electricity use forward. For me, this is not just a scenario but actually a desired development of society. But we also see, Madam President, a number of problems or challenges for us about making the Swedish electricity system work. So we are not talking about the classic conflict, whether it should be nuclear power or whether it should be wind power. We are simply talking about households, families and companies being able to count on secure access to electricity and other energy and about the need to make the Swedish electricity system work. In view of this and the crisis that was last year, I have therefore asked the Minister for Energy a number of questions for the coming summer. The first concerns the measures that the Government plans to take in the near future to increase margins. They're down now that Ringhals 1 has been closed. Last year these panic agreements were concluded with Ringhals, Karlshamn and Ryaverket in Gothenburg. According to what is called Emergency and Restoration Regulation, from 2017, which is an EU regulation, you should work long-term with such measures. There, Svenska Kraftnät has stated that similar agreements are not in place this summer. Then the question to the Government is: What are the alternatives for securing the function and for Sweden and Swedish power networks to be able to comply with the EU regulation and do it in a cost-effective and good way? The second issue is how the Government and the Government act in order for Sweden to comply with the Electricity Market Regulation. In the case of this type of power lines, at least 70% of the capacity in the electricity and energy markets must normally be made available. Only in exceptional cases can exceptions be applied for, and a plan for how to proceed must be put in place. We can see that we are now beginning to get into a situation where we have a lack of ability to transmit electricity in Sweden, from northern to southern Sweden. Although necessary extensions of the core network will not be possible to use the entire capacity. The same is true of the Southwest link. Experts are now saying that only two thirds of the capacity will be used. Then the question is: What is the Government doing to make use of the full potential of the core network and to get a slightly more consistent price picture and better stability? The third question is about what we do long-term in Sweden to guarantee production in southern Sweden. I think there are many of us, and not just in the Moderates, who see that today's electricity market model is not in all parts enough to always get the necessary electricity production in place. Reforms need to take place gradually. Then the question is: What is the government's answer in order to secure production? Madam President, I would like We have historically had surpluses in northern Sweden. Many think: If we only solve the transfer to the south, the problems of southern Sweden will be solved. But we can see a fantastic development in northern Sweden, not least with industrial change and development. Not least, it gives the light that more must be done politically to secure production in southern Sweden.
i-701331436ae0b94d-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the questions to which I replied essentially in the previous speech. Just let me figure out what happened this summer! There were three things that really co-variated. We had a pandemic that reduced the demand for electricity and thus prices. At the same time, the audit times for nuclear power were extended at very short notice. We thus had less access to nuclear power than had been notified by the owner. This made it unprofitable to drive nuclear power further in Sweden during the summer, and so it was chosen to turn it off. Therefore, in this case, support services were procured by the nuclear industry so that nuclear power could continue, even though it was not economically viable on the market. I do not make any other assessment of the situation for the summer than what Swedish power grids and other actors do. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I fundamentally share Lars Helmered's view of the energy needs ahead. I believe that we must take up the height of doubling the consumption of electricity in Sweden and thus doubling the production of electricity in Sweden. Although we should have a high degree of energy efficiency, I believe, perhaps like Lars Helmered hopes, that we will have a significantly increased electrification, something that is needed to cope with the climate threat. We need to replace fossil fuels in our fleet with biofuels and electricity. There is, of course, a strong energy efficiency. We need to replace the fossil content of our steel production and become the world's first nation to produce steel without coal. We need, as far as possible, to squeeze the fossil fuels out of cement production and otherwise store carbon dioxide and thus obtain carbon-free cement production. All of this requires electricity. So we need to take heights to double electricity production. We need to triple the investments in transmission networks in transmission capacity, and we need to halve the permit periods in order to build new electricity networks. This is also the background to the fact that last autumn I added an electrification strategy that has now worked broadly with all the different actors in the business community and where I feel that there is a fundamental agreement on the approach and the goals ahead, and I can only regret that on the political side we cannot show the same consensus as the business community, unions and other organisations in Sweden can show on their side. Electricity investment concerns the next 30 to 50 years, and the more uncertainty we can prevent in the political system, the more chance it is that we get these investments in place and that investors can be safe. I therefore regret that the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, chose to leave the Energy Agreement, where we could conduct these talks and agree on important points for the way forward. Now, of course, I hope that Lars Helmered's party The Moderates will still be able to stop around what we agree with Swedish business. But it would have been much better for Sweden if Lars Hjälmered and the Moderates had been able to participate, both when it comes to taking responsibility and to shaping the policy forward.
i-701331436ae0b94d-72	Madam President, I would like The opportunities, if we start with them, are huge for Sweden to move forward. For example, we can look at what boom it really is for hybrids and electric vehicles. If we look at the willingness to invest widely in industry and not least in industry, it is absolutely fantastic. Previously depopulated areas are settlement areas. Billions are invested, and each company of rank has on its agenda how to switch as quickly as possible from something fossil to something fossil-free. One common denominator in all of this is that you put your trust in us to have the functioning electricity and energy system where Sweden has historically enjoyed it very well. Not least, we can see that we still have great environmental benefits today. On a common day, emissions in neighbouring countries such as Denmark, Germany and Poland can be five, ten and fifteen times as large as in Sweden. However, I think that we should be honest about a number of problems and challenges. Last summer's activities, when Svenska Kraftnät had to trade up and secure the function in southern Sweden, not for electrical energy but for stability or in pure Swedish for the system to work at all, raise serious questions. It is also, of course, ultimately a political responsibility for this to work. It is not only the Moderates who raise such questions, but I would say that even some of the top experts we have in Sweden indicate that there are now quite different challenges and demands about actually getting the electricity system in particular in southern Sweden to work. If you ask the Swedish power grid, which actually operates and runs the electricity system, they themselves say that it takes much more hand-laying both manually and with automatic functions to stabilise the system and that everything is becoming increasingly complex. It is in the light of this, Madam President, that a number of the questions I have asked about what the government can do to increase the margins are to be seen. We can see that no initiatives have been taken to increase the margins in southern Sweden after the closure of Ringhals 1. The second is really about how to make available and use the entire capacity on core network lines in Sweden. I wish, after 22 or 23 delays, that the Southwest link will be in place. But we can also say that if, once it is in place, it can only be used for two thirds, it is not particularly desirable from the point of view of energy policy, but it must be dealt with later on. We can also see that it will not be possible to transfer all electricity from the north to the south, simply because there are technical limitations in the systems. This has to be handled in some way, beyond the public discussion about cogeneration, nuclear power, wind power and what it can be. I think that the government has pointed out a number of important issues and ambitions with regard to electricity network processing times, and I very much welcome the fact that the Government is now talking about increased electricity use. What I do, however, have criticisms of are three things concerning the initiatives that the Minister for Energy is taking right now. One is that there is a lack of a broader political basis on the whole. It is not really about the previous energy deal, but we are talking about a 30% government at the moment for this energy policy discussion without having anchored anything in Parliament. The second is that no judgments have yet been made or weighted between societal interests such as renewables against fossil-free or the local impact of hydropower on the global. The third and perhaps the most important thing is that visions and strategies must be transformed into political proposals that can land in Parliament for decision. There we see far too little government activity, especially in terms of a major reform of the electricity market and electricity grid regulation.
i-701331436ae0b94d-82	Madam President, I would like A number of things are also being done in southern Sweden. We will build 40 miles of electricity lines between 2021 and 2028, except for the Southwest link that I share Lars Helmered's hope for. Hope is the last thing that abandons man. We have given assignments to Svenska Kraftnät regarding support services. It is a rapidly increasing market; we are well up to a number of billions of dollars there. I also believe that there is a need for increased local electricity generation, whether it is offshore wind power, cogeneration or any other kind of power. I also believe that nuclear power will play an important role in the Swedish power system in the foreseeable future. However, what it will look like is ultimately determined by the competitiveness of nuclear power and thus also by the price of electricity. I also share Lars Helmered's sadness that there is no energy agreement to make the political anchor in. Therefore, with the Moderates and Christian Democrats choosing to drop out of these talks, we have chosen instead to gather the broad interest of society and try to agree on the way forward. I hope and believe that there is broad support in the Riksdag for what we, Swedish industry, Swedish industry, chemical industry and energy producers have agreed on. We have also held political talks in this work together with the Moderates and other parties in the Riksdag. We would have wished that we could do so within the framework of a broad energy agreement. I think that would have been good for Sweden and for the green transition. However, the door is not nailed to the Government Office. Should there be a renewed will from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats or any other party of the Riksdag, we have no objection to continuing these talks. I think, as I said, it would be a force for Sweden. I do not believe that we should allow the previous nuclear debate to stand in the way of Sweden's green transition. It is true, as Lars Helmered says, that there can actually be political conflicts with regard to each type of energy. And there are advantages and disadvantages to each type of energy. We, from the political side, will try to remove as many obstacles and difficulties as possible for the various types of energy to expand. Then I think it is technology development and market development that must determine which types of energy it becomes and what the energy mix looks like. Then it is my and Lars Helmered's political mission, and perhaps above all the mission of the Swedish power grid, to ensure that we have an energy system that can cope with market-driven development. In that sense, I do not want to put the political age ahead of market developments and, rather, make one dependent on the other. However, and where perhaps Lars Hjälmered agrees with me even more, we must keep track of developments so that market logic does not interfere with socio-economic logic. The green electricity system that we are looking forward to managing climate change should also be the most cost-effective in the socio-economic and systemic sense, because we will safeguard the strong competitive advantage that low energy prices bring to Swedish industry.
i-701331436ae0b94d-90	Madam President, I would like If we are to tackle some of the problems and challenges in the short term, but also some of the issues in the longer term, we must have a clear pace of reform. We are happy to engage in dialogue with parties. We have done so in Parliament and have landed in several important energy policy reforms. You can only watch the last year. About two years ago it was a tough situation in Stockholm and Skåne. Then we made sure to gather a majority here in Parliament so that this would be evaluated, so that we could really learn what was going well and what was going less well to avoid such situations. And we made sure that the government evaluated this. We are prepared to continue to take such initiatives. What I see in the long term is that we need to reform electricity grid regulation. Then it is the next regulatory period that begins on 1 January 2024. It is indeed a matter of urgency and a pity that the government has not set up any form of investigation. The risk is that there will be no chance of better network regulation with more reasonable prices in place for the next period. There is also a need for another reform of the electricity market, where we clarify a planning target for a double use of electricity, where we clarify the security of supply that can be expected as a customer – as an entrepreneur or as a household – where we point out a responsibility for this and where we bring in support services and several other things. These also need to be investigated and decided in the Riksdag in the future. But I also think that we need to look at what is coming forward this summer and then. Those who can do this with electricity systems indicate that it is becoming increasingly challenging to make it work technically and that even in these parts reforms are needed to ensure that Sweden complies with EU rules and that initiatives are taken so that households and entrepreneurs can continue to be able to count on a secure supply of electricity that has been the major competitive advantage for Sweden for so long.
i-701331436ae0b94d-95	Madam President, I would like It may be that we do not agree on any comma and perhaps on any meaning. But we seem to be very much in agreement on the long-term development. I think this applies to my party and to Lars Helmered, and I think this applies to a large part of Swedish politics and the Swedish parliament. After the talks that the government is conducting, it seems that there is a great unity and a great willingness to drive forward in the Swedish business community. This gives evidence of, not least, the pace of investment and the green changeover. Then the question remains why we do not take these key issues for industry further in terms of long-termness and make political agreements about them forward in the way we have done in the past and as the Moderates have in the past. I'm the first to regret it. The agenda Lars Helmered read about things to take hold of sounds like reading aloud from the government's bill list or government declaration. Lars Helmered mentioned support services. We've already given orders to do that. Shorter permit periods will come in the days, after a legislative referral, a bill about. That's how you can go on. I would have liked us to have been able to take another step for Sweden. As with the Southwest link, hope is the last thing that abandons man. And I therefore continue to hope, even if I plan that it may not be so.
i-701331436ae0b94d-100	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to increase the electricity bus premium and what further measures I intend to take to facilitate a sustainable restart of Swedish public transport. The current pandemic places great demands on the safe operation of public transport in order to avoid the spread of infection. Density and capacity must be maintained in order to reduce the risk of congestion. Therefore, the government has directed a total of SEK 6 billion of special support to public transport. The government is also careful to ensure that the tax resources allocated to public transport under the coronapandemin come into the activities. Therefore, the proposed allocation of the aid provides for an adjustment of the compensation based on the maintenance of the bus and train service provision in the first half of 2021. The targeted support for public transport, together with the large general state subsidies provided during the pandemic, means that these can also be allocated by the regions for a sustainable re-launch of public transport. Jens Holm also highlights the electricity bus premium as an opportunity to strengthen Swedish public transport. First of all, I would like to say that the electricity bus premium has promoted electric buses on the market, thereby reducing the climate impact of public transport. The premiere has been a market launch aid and is now being phased out after it has achieved its purpose. Finally, I would like to emphasise that climate is one of the most important issues we have to deal with in society. If we are to meet the Paris Agreement and our high national climate targets, the transport sector must change, and public transport has an important role to play in that work.
i-701331436ae0b94d-105	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation. We both agree that Swedish public transport is now in a very strained situation with the pandemic. About half of the travel documents have disappeared. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial for a sustainable restart of Swedish public transport that we can enter with continued support from the state to Swedish public transport. I welcome the SEK 6 billion announced so far by the government. This is good, but unfortunately it is not enough to compensate the public transport that runs in Sweden for the large cases of ticket revenues that have been experienced and continue to experience during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, some 14 000 regular buses are running, mostly – 10 000 buses – in regional public transport. It is absolutely crucial what fuel these buses are running on. Today, many buses run on renewable fuels – on biogas or on some form of renewable diesel. But it is impossible to get away from the fact that if we could get a large share of these buses to go on electricity instead, there are huge benefits. Then emissions will be completely zero, both greenhouse gas emissions and local emissions. We'll reduce the noise. We reduce shivering in the buses, which provides much better comfort for the bus drivers and for the passengers. Therefore, I think that the electric bus premium we have had so far in Sweden has been very good. Unfortunately, it has been too low, but the idea of it has been very good. Unfortunately, the government has reduced the electricity bus premium from August 2020. I think that was a bad thing to do. This means that only 10% of the cost of an electric bus can be paid. Previously, it was 20%. This also means a maximum amount of SEK 25 million per applicant. In total, SEK 80 million is now allocated to the Government's budget for direct support for electric buses – less money than before. When I last checked at the Swedish Energy Agency there were 48 applications for support from this electric bus premium. In total, SEK 2.5 billion is applied for. It is very much money, but unfortunately there is no equivalent amount in the government's budget. I think it is important to increase the electricity bus premium, not phase it out. That is why, Madam President, I am very concerned about Tomas Eneroth's response to me. Eneroth says that in the review has been a m archaeology support and began to be phased out after it has achieved its purpose. But, Madam President, this is the beginning. Over the next ten years, a large part of the 14 000 buses in Sweden will be renewed. You will buy new buses. Then we ought to have targeted support that really promotes the purchase of as many electric buses as possible. I really want to know from the Minister if I have understood him wrong. Does the government mean that we should phase out the electricity bus premium at a time when we should instead raise it?
i-701331436ae0b94d-115	Madam President, I would like I think that Jens Holm and I agree on the ambition that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Here both the government and the Left Party have a progressive and good policy for us to change. In addition, we are both passionate about public transport, both for it to be there for everyone who does not have a car and must be able to get to work or other activities and for the joint investment that public transport entails to create opportunities for mobility, for mobility. Of course it should be sustainable. That is why they are now responsible for public transport to make sure that biogas buses and electric buses are increasingly converted. It's their responsibility. The government is helping. In the same way that during the pandemic we have contributed SEK 6 billion in general government funding to public transport – it is also as much as the surplus in Stockholm County – it is a clear signal that the state is helping but that the main responsibility lies with municipalities and regions. The surplus for 2020 is SEK 51 billion, I think, because we have made so much money available. And it is enough that they can be used to maintain the volume of public transport, which is important, and not to create room for tax cuts or otherwise do not help to make public transport safe. That is why we have now amended the regulation and are clear that if we are to give state aid to the regions' responsibility for public transport, yes, then we want to know that the money goes to maintain the volume and ensure that you can travel safely on public transport. Then, of course, it is important that we also help in the conversion work, and we do this in general. The electric bus premium is just one example. I am, of course, leading the work of the Elektrifications Commission, and it is a fairly comprehensive effort we are making from the state to expand the charging infrastructure where, not least by means of the urban environment agreements, we have made extensive efforts precisely to help municipalities and regions. I think what is happening now is that we have helped to expand the conditions for electrification of public transport, for example. It is investment in two new charging stations for electric buses on line 6 in Luleå. It is the construction of two charging points for electric buses in Östersund, and it is an electric bus concept in Kungälv. We have the introduction of infrastructure measures for electric buses in Malmö. Landskrona has a bus street for electric buses. That's how we work-- we introduce. This is an important introduction, where we now see that electric bus production is on the move and demand is high, but we need to think about what is the state's part in this. After all, we are expanding this support to be an introduction for trucks and for machines, because what we need to achieve is a reduction in total emissions from the whole transport sector. There, bus traffic accounts for some, but so do truck traffic and work vehicles. Therefore, the electrification that is now going on is so incredibly important. If we can make sure that we increase and speed up the market introduction, we will use that instrument, but it should not be confused with long-term subsidization for a long time of purchases for which the principals are still responsible. I hope that is not what the Left Party is looking at, that the purchase of buses or other vehicles should be subsidised for a very long time, because then we have actually changed the division of responsibilities between the region and the state for public transport. The main responsibility lies with the regions, but the state helps and accelerates the development not least of electrification.
i-701331436ae0b94d-125	Madam President, I would like I think that was an illustrative answer from the Minister. First, the Minister says that both I and him and our respective parties agree on the importance of changing Sweden and achieving our climate targets and of saving public transport in the pandemic that we are in right now. We agree on that. However, we do not really agree on the solutions or on how far we feel that the responsibility of politics goes. For example, I find it a little strange that the government has an electric bus premium, an investment aid, to purchase electric vehicles for public transport and other regular services, but now says that it is satisfied with it and that it has begun to play its part. But, Tomas Eneroth, this is where it starts. We have 14 000 buses in this country, and almost everyone will have to be replaced by other vehicles in the years up to 2030. Then we shall also achieve our climate target of reducing emissions from the transport sector by 70%. Is the Minister for Infrastructure really satisfied that we have a few hundred electric buses rolling in public transport in Sweden? It's great with the bets that have been made, but he can't think it's enough, can he? It is, of course, now that major investments are to be made, and if, at the same time, investment aid is reduced to the purchase of electric vehicles for public transport, it sends out quite the opposite signals to what we should want to do. Madam President, I would like Let me take an example. West traffic has bought 145 new electric buses. Volvo has produced them in Gothenburg, and is now running every third bus line in Gothenburg on electricity. It's amazing. I think it is northern Europe's biggest electric bus ride. West traffic now receives SEK 25 million for this investment, much less than expected, for Tomas Eneroth and his government have changed the terms of the electric bus premium. They have reduced it so that you can get a maximum of SEK 25 million and reduce the entire premium overall. I think this is quite the wrong signal, Madam President, so I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure whether he believes that the SEK 80 million currently available as an electricity bus premium is really enough for us to be able to make the major change in public transport that we need to do and, overall, to give public transport the extra support it needs now when the Swedish economy is to restart. I would remind the Minister that there are now 48 applications for aid for the purchase of electric buses by the Energy Agency. A total of SEK 2.5 billion. Surely the Minister cannot consider 80 million to be enough, or is that really the case? Finally, I would like to comment on the surplus that the Minister says is in our regions. It is true that this exists, but does the Minister really not believe that that surplus will be used to graze the large health debt that has been built up during the pandemic and to rebuild public transport overall? I am very afraid that this money will not be enough to buy in the new climate-smart electric vehicles which, in any case, I hope can roll increasingly in public transport. Does the Minister think this is enough?
i-HPfgD7traGFNyhNNmfrtrj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the commitment! I am seriously concerned that not all regional leaders will use the generous state subsidies we have to develop public transport. It is, of course, the policy that determines, and we have examples from regions where it is said from a Swedish Democratic or moderate point of view that it is preferable to see the conditions for reducing taxes rather than using funds to improve and develop health care or, for that matter, to ensure that public transport is maintained with good volumes and is able to cope with the transition. At the same time, however, we cannot compensate the government to any extent for less moderate policies, but it is the voters in the region who are responsible for this. We have historically high levels of support for public transport: SEK 6 billion. In the past, there has been no state aid, but the regions have been expected to assume this responsibility. Now we are pushing for widespread support from the state. In addition, we have 10% in sales subsidies for electric buses, and we are now broadening this to electric trucks and machines. That's how we introduce this. Here, perhaps, the Left Party's view of the economy and economic drivers and the views of the Social Democracy and many other parties on the economy differ. Western traffic has bought 140 electric bus vehicles, and I imagine that they are fully committed to wanting to take their responsibility for re-setting and electrifying public transport in West Sweden. Of course they are happy and think it is good that the government is involved in subsidising this with SEK 25 million. I also believe that a great many people in the region would be happy if the government had subsidised 50 or 70 %, but just as the regions have to house and prioritise, we are doing so with state money, unlike the Left Party. We choose to prioritise and to be clear about making efforts where they are most useful. Should it turn out that we are getting less commitment to smart electric vehicles and for electrification of the transport sector, we should consider whether there is any reason to make further efforts, but we do not see that. On the contrary, we see an increased interest in buying not only electric buses but also electric trucks and work vehicles. That's how it works. Let us find the right action, so that we still spend taxpayers' money and spend the money as smartly as possible to lower the thresholds; normally it can be a little more expensive to buy an electric vehicle than a fossil-powered vehicle. With fiscal resources, incentives and premiums, we can ensure that these differences are reduced. Then what we are now seeing is happening – now the regions and private individuals are increasingly choosing to buy electric vehicles. I do not believe that the major challenges are any longer about premiums, to be clear on this issue. Instead, it will be about whether we have sufficient capacity in the networks and sufficiently expanded infrastructure, whether there are charging stations and whether there are conditions for the operation to be safe and reliable. We work with this in the Electrification Commission. This is also the work of Minister Anders Ygeman in connection with the electrification strategy to ensure that we in Sweden are able to cope with the transformation we are facing, where a very large proportion of not least road transport will be electrified. That's where we have to put the resources. You cannot, like the Left Party, have resources for everything, but you have to prioritise. This is a smart way to ensure that we get a change in the transport sector. I am convinced that this will mean that we are seeing further progress towards sustainable transport in all public transport.
i-701331436ae0b94d-144	Madam President, I would like It was good that Tomas Eneroth mentioned Anders Ygeman, the Minister for Energy, because I just had a debate with him on the subject of electrification of the fleet of vehicles and about the fact that the expansion of public charging poles is going too slowly and is far too complicated and difficult to charge the cars. Even there we see that there are many fine words from the government, but in practice it happens far too little. Economics is precisely about housekeeping; it is about managing resources. Then it does not propose to reduce taxes on the richest and not to have a tax on, for example, heavy goods vehicles, which have high emissions. What the government is doing today means that we have less money in the treasury to change our society, and then it will be 80 million SEK in an electric bus premium when we see that the need is many times greater. Again: The Minister seems pleased that we have a couple of hundred electric buses. I think the electric bus revolution has just arrived. We have 14 000 buses in Sweden, and over these ten years almost all of these will be renewed. Do we want diesel buses rolling on our roads, or do we want it to be quiet, noise-free and climate-smart electric buses? Of course we want electric buses. However, it is not possible to reduce the targeted aid, which is precisely about facilitating the purchase of new electric buses. West traffic is a great example. As I said, they bought 145 buses on the premises that existed earlier, when the support was more generous than it is today. But Western traffic has almost 2 000 buses in its fleet. It is clear that we would like the large part to be electric buses, but then the targeted support needs to be greater – not less. This is where the government needs to improve.
i-701331436ae0b94d-148	Madam President, I would like For those who follow the debate, it is probably clear that Jens Holm and I have the same goal and vision that public transport should change; we want to see more electric vehicles. But it must also be ensured that the state's resources are used properly and that the regions use their resources properly. I know a lot of regional politicians. I am quite convinced that climate-smart alternatives are being looked at in the regions of the country when you look at the renewal of public transport. I think it will be tough for those regions that say that from now on they will choose large diesel buses without the most modern treatment, which does not meet the requirements of sustainability. I think Jens Holm himself hears how it sounds. On the contrary – now we have minimized the thresholds and introduced the conditions for electric buses and, earlier, for biogas buses. I believe that there will be a gradual development of electrification of public transport as a whole. The regions will be able to assume this responsibility. This responsibility lies with the regions. From the state side, we help and push the development in the right direction, both through premiums for purchases, through infrastructure expansion, through earmarked state subsidies to public transport and through general state grants to those who are public transport operators. Rarely has the state shown such a strong commitment to helping municipalities and regions manage to switch the transport sector. This should also be the case; this should be a joint responsibility. I am proud to belong to a government that is hand in hand with municipalities and regions to ensure that we achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. We do this through electrification, via biofuel incorporation, through transport efficiency, by expanding the infrastructure and by finding the right models, where the market – Scania, Volvo and others – can implement its latest models in Sweden.
i-701331436ae0b94d-153	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me if I have any plans and measures to stop bottom trawling in the Baltic Sea, and if so what, and what I intend to do concretely in the near future to ensure that fish stocks recover and do not decrease in the Baltic Sea. Work to improve the environmental situation and knowledge of fish stocks in the Baltic Sea is an important issue for the government. As I have already answered Kjell Jansson in an earlier question( 2020/ 21: 1942) the bottom trawling on the east coast is mainly carried out after cod. In view of the poor status of the eastern cod stock, targeting of cod throughout the east coast has been prohibited since summer 2019. Fish with bottom trawls have been severely restricted by this ban. In addition, the government is working on a ban on bottom trawling in marine protected areas with the possibility of limited exemptions in line with the January agreement. The Government's overall goal is sustainable fishing, increased resource efficiency and more sustainable fishing methods and tools. As a result, I and the Government have taken a number of measures in these areas aimed at improving the marine environment and thus promoting the recovery of fish stocks and developing Swedish fisheries in both the short and long term. An improved marine environment and viable fish stocks create long-term and necessary conditions for the development of fisheries.
i-701331436ae0b94d-155	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Jennie Nilsson! The government replied that the government is doing a lot, but that is far from enough, I will be clear with. There's a lot more to do, and I'm going to make a few points here. The fish stock in the Stockholm archipelago has decreased for 50 years. It's that bad, and it's not just this year. When I was a boy, my father and I could go out and throw a spinning rod and get up 15 pike and 5 perch in a couple of hours to take us home for dinner. What are the reasons for this? Of course, many over time. Free hand tools were introduced in 1985. The state stole water and fishing rights from the water owners, without any compensation. Not a penny was paid for the water owners. It was free. It's kind of like it would be free to go into the woods and chase moose for free. The state also did not take responsibility for replanting fish and still does not. That's the most serious thing. This carelessness has been going on for decades. Madam President, I would like The government should assume its responsibilities and, in consultation with the water owners, develop a plan for replanting fish. The Baltic Sea has been severely affected by toxins and bad water for a long time. This is largely due to communism and the emissions from the Communist countries around the Baltic Sea. The gigantic pollution of the environment lasted for at least 50 years. There were also large nitrogen emissions from our wastewater treatment plants in Sweden, but there it has become significantly better. I myself am chairman of the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association. There we do status checks of the water along the Svealand coast. The water is getting better, but it's not fast. We do everything in order to support our members in improving water quality through various measures that can be taken. Madam President, I would like In 2016, 37 fishermen had a licence in the Baltic Sea. Today, 25 fishermen still operate small-scale fishing, and there seems to be no more. By far the biggest problem today is industrial trawling in the Baltic Sea. The bottoms are vacuumed on fish of all species. This predatory fishing must be stopped. The Government replies that the purpose of the trawling is cod fishing. No, that's wrong. It's vacuuming. All fish come up when you trawl, not least Baltic herring. Cods have been gone for almost 10 to 15 years. On each occasion, trawl fishing draws up 1 500 - 1 600 tonnes, which go down to Denmark to be ground down to fishmeal that becomes feed in salmon farms. Madam President, I would like 1 500 - 1 600 tons are taken up and go down to Denmark and become fishmeal. A large part of this is spawning herring that is systematically trawled away. The boats are called Clipperton and Torön and are Danish licensed. Madam President, I would like Does the Government consider this to be sustainable? If the government continues to ignore the issue, small-scale fishing will be gone within 5-10 years. Cod stocks are very low for a long time. Streaming has decreased dramatically by 75% over the last decade.
i-701331436ae0b94d-168	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for a very important interpellation! I noted in a study that 1% of the Swedish people have confidence in the Minister for Rural Development, and I do not believe that confidence has been strengthened following the reply that the Minister read out. As Kjell Jansson says, bottom trawling creates huge problems for both recreational fishermen and fishermen. I can understand that a rural minister belonging to the Social Democratic Party may not have much confidence in two moderate members of parliament. But she had been able to read the debate article written by Ulrika Falk, opposition councillor in Norrtälje kommun, Gustaf Lantz, Member of Parliament from Uppsala, Sanne Lennström, Member of Parliament from Östhammar, Elin Lundgren, Member of Parliament from Gävle, Marie Pettersson, Municipal Councillor in Älvkarleby Municipality and Viktoria Söderling, opposition councillor in Tierp Municipality, together with Dick Tillberg, cod fishermen in Grisslehamn, Tom Sundell, coastal fisherman in Östhammar and my friend Dennis Bergman at Bergman's fish in Norrsundet. They write exactly what Kjell Jansson says: The trawling enables giant boats to pick up large quantities of fish in a small geographical area in a short time. It has a negative impact on fish stocks and the marine environment, which is not similar to small-scale fishing. We assume that this will lead to a move of the trawl line in order not to deplete fish stocks any longer. When fishing is more managed by Swedish small-scale fishermen instead of trawlers, the money will also stay in our country, and the fish will become food on Swedish tables instead of fishmeal in Denmark. Madam President, I would like I cannot understand who can be against such a policy. I find it very strange, and I think the answer given by the Minister to this very important interpellation is very defensive. But, Madam President, there is one more important issue which concerns bottom trawling, and it is, of course, a threat to the integrity of the seabed. We Moderates have been fundamentalists in clean water, clean sea and clean air since Gösta Bohman's time. We protect the coasts. Anyone interested can read an article from 9 March on the Baltic Eye, Stockholm University website: Bottom trawling has significant effects on life on the seabed and can also lead to the release of nutrients and dangerous chemicals from the sediment. These effects are important to take into account when evaluating the environmental impact of fishing," says the researchers at Stockholm University. Madam President, I would like Let me remind you of a very toxic bomb that is waiting and is currently crumbling on our coast between Sundsvall and Gotland. There are 23 000 venom barrels containing 10 tons of mercury. We Moderates have warned against this environmental bomb. It is clear that when the Danish trawlers come and sweep everything with them, there is a risk, Madam President, that ten tonnes of mercury will be stirred up. So it's a terrible environmental bomb. I therefore think that the questions that Kjell Jansson has asked about the plans and measures that exist to stop the bottom trawling and what the Minister intends to do in the near future deserve an answer. This has also been demanded by the Social Democratic MPs and opposition councils along the coasts. More people therefore expect answers to the questions asked.
i-701331436ae0b94d-177	Madam President, I would like In this interpellation, Mrs Jansson raises two very important questions:
i-701331436ae0b94d-180	Unfortunately, the answer is not so much to hang the Christmas tree. I live in Haninge, one of the Stockholm region's archipelago municipalities. In fact, over 70 percent of my municipality of residence consists of water. Kjell Jansson lives in Norrtälje, another of Stockholm region's large archipelago municipalities. We are both receiving alarming reports from our fishermen, among others, that the situation of several fish stocks in the Baltic Sea is acute. The reports on Baltic cod are extremely gloomy. Fishing in the Stockholm archipelago must take place in a more sustainable way. Local knowledge is important here. What we can see is that the total fish stocks in the archipelago have decreased drastically, not least in the last 20 years. There are, of course, many reasons for this. For example, free fishing of hand tools was introduced in 1985 without anyone taking responsibility for replanting. Furthermore, the seal eats several kilos per day – not to mention the cormorant, which takes a lot of fish. In addition, there are bar ways and fish in protected bays. In recent years we have also seen a new large-scale fishing establishment outside the Stockholm archipelago. It is industrial trawlers that fish very much herring in a short time. Effective industrial trawlers target Baltic herring just as it gathers in large schools to enter the archipelago and multiply. This has disastrous consequences for the entire archipelago. Access to fish is dramatically reduced, and the entire ecosystem is eliminated. Several of the fishermen who have contacted me, and probably also Kjell Jansson, say that they now only get one tenth of previous normal catches in the archipelago. One-tenth! Last year, industrial trawlers raised 370 times more herring than Stockholm's fishermen combined, according to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, HaV. It is the local fishermen who normally keep the Stockholm archipelago alive, and they are a large part of the Stockholm archipelago's DNA. It is bad for the entire archipelago and these municipalities that untenable industrialized fishing displaces smaller fishermen. It is also bad for our level of self-sufficiency. Most of the fish we Swedes eat is imported, and with this fishing, our level of self-sufficiency is even lower – and that in a situation when we need to be more prepared and become more self-sufficient. Safe food and safe drinking water are essential for us to survive, especially during a crisis. For the Stockholm archipelago to flourish in the future, fishing needs to be sustainable. Does the Minister not agree that we need to promote small-scale and coastal fishing and give priority to locally-fished fish as food and not as fishmeal in other countries?
i-701331436ae0b94d-190	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell Jansson and the other speakers for raising an important issue. This issue has been discussed over time. Unfortunately, it is nothing new that the Baltic Sea and fish in the Baltic Sea are not well. This means that we have worked actively and intensively for a long time to create better conditions. We need to take a holistic approach to this. There is not a question that solves the problem. The current situation is about poor marine environment, predation of predators, such as seals, and unsustainable fishing. After all, fishing is regulated within the framework of our European cooperation because fish move across borders. Therefore, it has been and is important for Sweden to ensure that the EU makes its decisions on quota levels on a scientific basis, which was not self-evident just a few years ago. Today it is being done, and ICES is making recommendations. Sweden has been and is the driving force in ensuring that these recommendations are followed so that we gradually ensure that there are fish left for future generations. The ICES recommendations mean that the quota for cod is now set at zero and that the quota for herring, which is partly the subject of this interpellation debate, fell by 35% this year compared with last year. That is an important thing, but of course it is not enough. In addition, the government has provided more than 200 million annually to improve the environment in the Baltic Sea. We have made targeted projects to collect litter in the Baltic Sea, and we have set aside SEK 210 million for the next four years to expand research programmes linked to this. We have also given HaV a targeted mission to look at what is happening with herring, which I assume is the underlying discussion here. It is possible that the herrings will be smaller, but clearly they will be smaller in size, which makes them harder to fish because they are not picked up. So far, however, we cannot clarify the causal link and say exactly what the causes are. One might think it would be a baggish to go on all the reasons, and I personally would not have had any problem doing so. But as I said initially, it is important for fish stocks on the whole that we work together with the EU and that all decisions there are made on a scientific basis. This means that Sweden cannot itself move a trawl limit, as the interpeller mentioned as an alternative, but it must be anchored within the framework of EU cooperation. Other countries, especially Denmark and, I believe, Finland, have access to these waters, and that means that if we are to get through with credibility a proposal to remove the trawl line, we need to be able to demonstrate the scientific causal link. Therefore, we have given assignments to HaV via SLU and also targeted projects to research to strengthen and ensure these causalities. This work is ongoing and is a priority.
i-701331436ae0b94d-199	Madam President, I would like I understand that there are things that need to be anchored with the EU, Jennie Nilsson, but the minimum measure in this is to move out the trawl line 12 miles. Ideally, trawling would stop completely, because it is predatory fishing that does not belong in the Baltic Sea. It ponds clean in the archipelago so that there is no fish left until the next generation. There's barely any fish left in our generation. It's interesting that you're bringing up this whole beach-cleaning thing. We keep people in the archipelago doing this on weekends. On Saturday I will go out and clean beaches in the Svartlöga archipelago, and I promise I will do it all day. Madam President, I would like At the same time as this predatory fishing, there is another fishery that is almost predatory, commercial trolling. Authorized guides come out with bars from Stockholm city centre, loaded with 10 to 15 people. This spring they go in and fish ruthlessly in our protected bays where the fish play. This must stop. It is remarkable and totally unacceptable that this should go on. This free fishing is perceived as pleasant, although they roam freely in the archipelago on the waters of others. They don't pay a penny either. They charge a lot of money for the tours, but the water owners don't get a penny. Does the Government consider this to be sustainable? Madam President, I would like In addition, the reality is that the seal eats several kilos per day, as mentioned here, and that the midcarves eat six hectos per day. A general search for cormorants should be introduced quite quickly. I promise it would soon be gone, because then every islander with a hunting license would be out there helping. The cormorant is an atrocity. The vegetation dies from their feces on the islands where they live. Madam President, I would like The State must take responsibility for replanting fish in consultation with water owners. It is an initiative that the government should take. There are fish conservation associations and others out there to contact for replanting. That is absolutely necessary. And put a stop to trolling in peaced coves! Otherwise, the archipelago will soon be exhausted. The next generation can go boating, but then there's no fish left. Madam President, I would like Why does the government let this evil go on? Does the government intend to introduce free hunting for moose and deer as well, since there is free fishing everywhere? Or is it only in water you get to ravage wild and fish without any order or responsibility? I brought a motion to Parliament for this year to ban trawling, but it was rejected boom. I'm not gonna give up. There must be a stop to predatory fishing. It is irresponsible for the government to let this go on. The government must take responsibility. Free, general hunting for cormorants and moving the border 12 mil is the minimum requirement for what to do. I hope the Government agrees with me on this. Otherwise it's really bad and probably too late.
i-701331436ae0b94d-208	Madam President, I would like One can be impressed by this government — a government devoted to symbolic politics. We all know that: taxes on plastic bags, bans on straws, subsidised electric bicycles and everything they do. But what is really environmental policy and what really matters are not their priorities in the same way. It is clear in this interpellation debate. I think it is quite unusual for eight ten Social Democratic politicians to write debate papers against their own Minister. I guess you do it in frustration. I suppose informal discussions have been held with the Minister for Rural Development. I guess you've been trying to influence your own government. When this does not go any further, the next step is of course to write debate articles in Norrtelje Tidning, Gefle Dagblad, Arbetarbladet, Alla Hälsingland and so on. Madam President, I would like This question is real. In principle, Kjell Jansson has described why this issue is so important and why it is necessary to remove the predatory trawling, as I would call it. It is also a matter of economic policy. Bergman Fisk has been fishing for generations and is a very nice part of Gävle. There have been market sales of fish and have been on for so many years– I think it's the sixth generation. It is clear then that it is devastating when Danish trawlers come and sweep the entire coast to make flour in Denmark. Kjell Jansson's questions are relevant, namely: When does the government intend to act – in the near future? What the Minister has said here is not helping. Just as the Socialist politicians write in the articles on debate, action must be taken here and now to resolve this issue. I would like to know: what concrete action does the Minister intend to take this year to make it effective?
i-701331436ae0b94d-212	Madam President, I would like I am frankly concerned about fishing in the Stockholm archipelago and about our food readiness. So we have gone from 37 to 25 fishermen, as Kjell Jansson initially said. A natural follow-up question will then be: What are the Minister and Government doing to create incentives for our local fishermen so that they can continue and stay and that someone will want to take over this work in the future? Why, for example, is the government not pushing Sweden to get the exception from the EU that we have talked about before when it comes to trading seal products? The seal eats the fish. You can now hunt seals, but you must not dispose of meat and other seal products. There is a lack of incentives there too, which means that shot seals are lowered and create eutrophication. Or they don't, but they can. We can't have that either. Then nothing will be better in the Baltic Sea, and we will definitely not get more fishermen there.
i-701331436ae0b94d-215	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that so many people are involved in these matters. At the same time, I think it is important to try to separate concepts and have a concrete and serious discussion. It is quite clear that much more needs to be done to ensure that we have viable fish stocks in all our waters, not just now but for future generations. It is also quite clear that it is based on addressing at the same time all the challenges that affect this. It is about regulating fishing quotas, and we do. This also applies to recreational fishing, as I would like to point out in this context, although it is at a limited level, particularly during the lay-off, actually throughout the summer in this context, when the interest should reasonably be greatest. I shall take this question with me. The problem, as described, was a little new to me. I have not heard that there is any scope or volume on this that is a great strain. But if that is the case and it is not legal, then of course you should make sure to stop it. We have acted vigorously against other countries that have not respected the quotas that we have set. We went out and marked hard last year towards Poland, for example, which went too close to our borders during the play-stop. That is totally unacceptable. If you are going to manage the situation well and find solutions that will have an impact here and now, but above all over time, because it will take time for the tribes to grow up, all stakeholders must bear their share of the responsibility, so of course also politics. Therefore, the variety of measures is important. It is important to have fishing levels and quotas at sustainable levels, and it is important to work to improve the marine environment. Most of the Baltic Sea bottoms are classified as oxygen-poor or even oxygen-free. This, of course, creates totally unreasonable pressures on the stocks that are there. It was referred to earlier that this would be due to communism in the Eastern states, which is a bit far-fetched. I think there are many things that are historically conditioned on what the environment in the Baltic Sea looks like, but I think we should recognise that some of these are Swedish sins, both from industry and from agriculture. It is therefore important to have a policy for the seas that is not only in the sea but that properly regulates the conditions and companies that have activities that affect the marine environment. This is something that the Moderates have not always been so interested in, but I am glad to hear that they have now realised how important this is. When I talk about project funds being set aside to clean up the oceans, I'm not talking about the beaches. I'm talking about the oceans. I'm talking about lost fishing gear and plastic in the oceans. I do not know if Members have seen figures on it. I don't remember the number in my head right now, so I'm not going to draw it because it could go wrong. But there are huge amounts of lost fishing gear, i.e. nets – what is called ghost nets – and plastic in the sea, which is also deemed to be a huge strain on the stocks that exist. This is also important for real. This means that the small fishermen, whom someone spoke about, who need incentives and help to deal with the fact that quotas are actually smaller and that they are allowed to fish less – they are also affected by the decisions – can get a more differentiated income. To this we can say that we can get protection hunting on cormorants. That's good. However, it is a protected bird, so we cannot handle it any way we like. As far as seal products are concerned, we have introduced licence hunting, but I shall return to that.
i-701331436ae0b94d-224	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that I don't mind small boys or small children being out with Mom and Dad throwing some spindle and fish. I think that's okay. What I'm against is that trolling companies go out with big bars commercially and vacuum our protected bays. You must ensure that there is a ban on this, and there is one authority that is not overwhelmed by work that can monitor the issue, namely the Coast Guard. Then there was the question of the dirty Baltic Sea. It has hopefully improved, the Minister for Rural Development, but in the past, in the ancient days of the Soviet Union, oil was pumped out. When the pressure went down in the pipes, the pressure was raised, and the oil went right out into the Baltic Sea. I've been on a town-twinning visit to Paldiski myself, and I've seen how it's been done. Oil is terrible right into the Baltic Sea. This has destroyed bottoms and water quality for decades. It is much worse than agricultural emissions. They are not good either, but oil spills are considerably worse. My good friend, former MP, Rune Wikström told me the other day that there is an incredible amount of fish coming up now. He lives on fishing and has his own restaurant. It's a small family business. He says he's getting old now, but after him no one can go on anymore. It's serious. Rune is the third generation of the family who work with fishing, and he has made a living on it his whole life. That's something to think about. Another thing about fishing – not the little boys who throw spin – is that trolling boats, for example, also constitute a major infringement of property rights. It is someone who owns the waters, and it is someone who has to pay for the rateable value.
i-701331436ae0b94d-228	Madam President, I would like The issue concerns and is important. We will continue to have to keep a strong focus on working broadly on all the issues that affect the situation of fishing in the Baltic Sea. We will continue to push forward in the framework of EU cooperation to put quotas at a level that is scientifically sustainable. We need to develop our own strategy to ensure, above all, small-scale fishing, which is getting tough in some of these situations. We saw this not least at the end of the game, linked to the cod-fishing stop last year. In this respect, incentives are needed to broaden and differentiate their activities so that they actually survive. It is also important that all decisions are effective and proportionate. We want Swedish fishing, not least small-scale Swedish fishing, to survive. Then the rules of the game need to be as good as possible. However, we must also ensure that we are working on what is the biggest problem, namely all parts relating to the marine environment. I have talked about seals in the past – there was a concrete question about seals. We see that it actually plays a role when you are not allowed to hunt or fish over time in the form of populations growing up. They have grown so much that it has been possible to introduce licence hunting because seals have a negative impact on fishing and fish stocks. The issue of selling is a little too big and complicated. But I can say that the exception that Sweden had in the EU was taken away from us by the WTO. It is a question at a completely different level, and I would be happy to discuss it on another occasion. Overall, I am pleased that there are so many people who want to pursue these issues in a positive way. This has not always been the case.
i-701331436ae0b94d-232	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I will work to ensure that decisions take into account the safety of house fishing in marine protected areas in order to thus contribute to safeguarding cultural history, rural areas, the environment and the coast. The competitiveness of small-scale and coastal fisheries is an important issue for me and the government. At the same time, both professional and recreational fishing face major challenges. The Government's overall goal is sustainable fishing, increased resource efficiency and more sustainable fishing methods and tools. Conservation measures in marine protected areas shall be relevant and appropriate. Proposals for conservation measures shall be drawn up on the basis of scientific evidence, and fisheries regulations shall be drawn up as far as possible in consultation with stakeholders. Since it is the County Administrative Boards that are responsible for the management of protected areas, the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority has obtained evidence from the County Administrative Boards regarding the need for conservation measures in marine protected areas. Subsequently, a process of review, consultation of additional scientific evidence and stakeholder consultation has taken place before final proposals for action have been formulated. The consultation of the proposals also means that they are widely highlighted. Proposals for measures in protected areas thus originate from assessments of the relevant county boards. This is an important principle since the county administrative boards have the best knowledge of the conservation values in the protected areas they manage and of the fisheries that take place locally. I think it is very positive that our responsible authorities have developed a holistic approach to dealing with these complex issues, which takes into account the local perspective and the diversity of the different fisheries that take place along our long coast.
i-701331436ae0b94d-236	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I would like to start where the Minister for Rural Development stopped his speech. I would like to dress up the issue of house-need fishing to the fact that it is about much more than the fishing itself. Our fantastic country consists of different local environments and different landscapes. They all have a cultural history that includes people's lives from the past until now, and that is what I think the Government means when she talks about the local perspective that county boards should have on their radar. In any case, this is not what the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has on its radar, but you want to totally ban all fishing outside the Bjäre and Kulla peninsula, around Ven and in Lundåkra Bay. Small-scale, coastal domestic fishing is also being banned. Such a law would put a dead hand over life in the ports around the coast and also jeopardise all future fishing – not to forget also to affect our important tourism and tourism in these places. The question concerns Öresund and the string of fish ports that have been there since the Stone Age. There is a tradition that is linked to today's society. Small-scale coastal fishing has been a natural and important part of western Skåne. Various professions and companies have emerged from fishing, such as boat construction. These companies, together with other companies, laid the foundations for growing viable communities along the coast, and that is what we carry with us throughout history. Nowhere in that authority HaV states that the Authority has investigated the negative effects of house-need fishing on the stocks of porpoises, seals, seabirds and fish. The Authority bases its response on the viability of the porpoises. Focusing on the porpoises, you ask yourself how the authority has reasoned. I know that the Government cannot answer that particular question, but the stock of porpoises has gone from being threatened in 2015 to classifying 2020 as viable. This means that while fishing has been conducted, the stock of porpoises has increased – according to Artdatabanken's red list. Thus, the stock of tumults does not decrease but increases in symbiosis with the fishing going on. Then let me address the role and mission of the county administrative boards from the government. The mission to authorities and county boards should combine these different interests in the best possible way with each other, without putting a dead hand over what is already working. The Government states that measures developed in consultation with interested parties should be right. In this case, representation of the needs fishers has been completely excluded from such consultations, and it is more than unfortunate, in my view, if not all aspects are taken into account – if the government's ambition is indeed to achieve the right results in the measures it wants to develop. If the bill became a reality, it would really mean that at one stroke, without having investigated the consequences, the links to the history of coastal communities along the Öresund were cut. The proposal completely ignores the possibility of strengthening porpoise stocks while maintaining viable and sustainable land-use fisheries. This would mean that northwestern Skåne's coastal and very tourist-tight small fishing villages and ports would be adversely affected. With this information, it would be very reasonable to look at factors around this and say: fishing is taking place here, and porpoises are increasing in stocks. Then there can be a good development in which these two interests can be combined on something that is a complex issue, as we have said. Having said that, the Government is happy to respond to how the Government sees these different interests together, as it is an important issue for the Government.
i-DLB9oboJ5ikRoSqBWnTonY	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! I note that this is an issue which I do not comment on in substance, given that it is currently being consulted. The referral period is over and the answers are compiled. On the other hand, it is important that we discuss the principles of how we work in a transparent and inclusive manner and that the decisions we make are always as effective and proportionate as possible. It should and should be a foundation in all decision-making, from my perspective. With regard to the proposal referred to by Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, it is a proposal prepared by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, which is based entirely on the County Administrative Board's conservation plans – at least on the basis of the information I have. I believe that this is very important and that it is a fundamental and important principle. It is the county boards that sit on the best knowledge of the conditions that exist in their areas, both in terms of the conservation perspectives that need to be included in the plans, in terms of which industries are affected and in terms of what recreational values or other social values are involved in this overall. From my perspective, therefore, the best overall assessment of the county boards is made in this case. Then I can see that these are difficult questions, because it is clear that it is always great things that are being set against each other. We just had an interpellation debate about the state of the Stockholm archipelago, where party colleagues to Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson wanted to totally ban a lot of fishing that is there linked to the situation with herring needing to be handled. I have great respect for the fact that you can have such views, and somewhere this is what is constantly being set and weighed against each other in all these contexts. With regard to the proposals under discussion, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson questions whether there is a need, linked to the recovery of the stock of porpoises – as has been mentioned in particular – because it has been restricted and protected from it in the past. That is correct; it looks better for the stock situation of that species in that area than it has done in the past. At the same time, very recently, last year, we received criticism from the Commission for not doing more for porpoises on the total. What has then been identified is that this is a very important area for the porpoises and their reproduction. This means that it is not just about looking at what it looks like in a specific area, but that it is also, of course, about what responsibility you take for a species as a whole. The question is not just one species, ever, but, in these contexts, it is essentially always a matter of protecting several values. In the areas we are talking about, there have been corals, fish, seabirds, porpoises, river banks, etc. So, once again, it is a holistic approach that should be dealt with. At the same time, I can see that it is, of course, those who feed on fishing or fish who are affected by the restrictions imposed. Nothing comes for free. In the case of small-scale fishermen, derogations have been introduced. In the case of recreational fishing, reference is made to other areas or other tools, and this makes an overall assessment that those who fish are relatively little concerned.
i-5BazjemETZfYN46YZp6EMJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the development of the answer, the Government, regarding referral periods that have been completed and the role of the County Administrative Board! I was going to use this post to make a contribution to the question linked to the porpoises. Even if you are going to look at an entire species population, as the Government mentioned, you can also look at the local one if you now have the view that it is important. When it comes to Öresund, there is a very high concentration of porpoises north of Kullen during much of the year, which stands out from Skåne's western corner. This applies to the area that according to the chart is outside the 20-metre curve, as it is called. That area could be completely protected. If you did so, you could continue to engage in gentle and sustainable house fishing, in what is called Skälderviken – where it is the founder, no more than 20 meters. This would obviously happen with the exception of those areas which have previously been protected. The government has taken up tools. Another way to get to the porpoises is so-called acoustic pingers, which thus sends signals to porpoises not to go into certain areas. Then you can separate the need for house fishing from the porpoises' areas so that they do not end up in the by-catch. The problem then becomes that the porpoises go in and are subject to the catch of the domestic fishers largely non-existent. This large protected area in Skåne borders to the west with the very large nature reserve called Skånska Kattegat. All in all, this would mean that most of the northwestern Skåne Sea was completely protected and a fishing-free area – while smaller areas within the 20-metre curve, as I mentioned earlier, could be open for house fishing. It is therefore a proposal for a solution. With this reasoning, the Maritime and Water Authority and the County Administrative Board would have been able to make proposals – now it is too late, but the government still has the opportunity – to resolve the question of how to vigorously ensure the protection of the growing porpoise stock while maintaining the viable and gentle house-need fishing. This can then be done on the basis of the great cultural-historical value it has for coastal communities. Both before the pandemic and during it hemester has been part of northwestern Skåne's tourism industry, which fills these communities with income and life. The port and fishing are linked to discussions and lives in the area. Now that the Minister for Rural Development is saying that the competitiveness of small-scale and coastal fisheries is an important issue, and that the government also sees it that way, I want to be clear that house-need fishing is actually about the right of private individuals and the ability to lay shorter nets – 180 metres per person – to get a smaller catch for the family's own consumption. It is a cultural practice that has existed for a very long time among those living along the coast, and it also forms the basis for much of the people's visits to these places. They talk about fishing and also visit cafes, restaurants and other things around the harbour. As I said in my previous speech, I think it is unfortunate that the answers from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the County Administrative Board have not revealed that the stock has increased.
i-701331436ae0b94d-257	Madam President, I would like I assume that the County Administrative Board also has good knowledge of the need for housing fishing and its role within its own region and that it has been taken into account when drawing up its conservation plans in relation to other considerations that have also been taken into account in this context. However, I understand what Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says. It is extremely important that we also ensure and protect the cultural and historical values of fishing for coastal municipalities. It concerns both the possibility of recreational fishing and small-scale fishing, as well as the link to tourism, restaurants, identity and so on. All these things obviously need to be taken into account. However, I would like to emphasise once again that the proposals that are in no case concern the protection of only one species. Tumblers are part of it. Here we have a transfer case from the Commission linked to porpoises. It is also about sandbanks, reefs, birds and so on within these areas. There are several protected species and terrestrial or aquatic environments to be protected in these contexts. There is a balance between these at any given time. Then it is important to work very closely with the stakeholders that exist. I assume that there have been transparent processes in the process of developing the plans, especially on the basis of the County Administrative Board's mandate and responsibilities in this context. I note that what I am saying is taken into account, particularly for small-scale fishing. It is also affected by this type of change. It is clear that it is proposed to grant derogations for small-scale fishing under certain conditions, in certain areas and so on. It is in order to ensure that their livelihoods still exist and that they are in a reasonable position to continue their livelihoods. As far as near-to-house fishing is concerned, this is mentioned in the supporting documents. The assessment by the authorities is that it can be met by the design of the proposal. This can be done by referring to other areas, as the proposal does not cover the entire coast. The map goes a little round. There are some parts of the coastal strip where it will be possible to fish. Alternatively, reference is made to other gears. We are talking about non-passive tools. Nets will be banned. In this context, it is important to point out that work on the development of selective fishing gear at all levels is continuing. This applies not only to commercial fishing but also to recreational fishing. The whole point is that we should ensure that we have all the stocks that are worth preserving, and they are all, to future generations. There is no one making this kind of change just because. There is a very important purpose below, namely to ensure that we preserve all the many different species that we have not only for now but also for future generations.
i-701331436ae0b94d-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your speech! If the scheme is to make exemptions after first banning fishing in areas, it causes concern. It would be great if you could bring information about opportunities here today. The Government talks about consultation and transparency from the County Administrative Board. There has been no discussion with the domestic fishers. Both the municipality of Båstad and the municipality of Höganäs have written on the matter. It also has Mölle harbour association, Kullens Fiskareförening, Sveriges Kust- och sjöfiskares organisation, Höganäs Båtsällskap, Nyhamnsläge port, Arilds port, Bökebäcks port, Svanshalls port, Torekovs port, Kattviks port, Båstads port, Norrebro port, Burensvik harbour association, Rammsjöstrand harbour, Gamlebro harbour Öllöv, Magnarps harbour, Nyhamns Såg & Båtbyggeri, Pensionat Strandgården & Byakrogen, Café Mölle, a number of village teams and about fifteen house-need fishermen who have been involved in this issue with the concerns they have based on the importance that these places can continue to have life and movement. The needy fishermen have talked about the urgent issue of being able to continue fishing with the extended stock of porpoises. The Government has replied that it is looking at more aspects. But it still feels as if it is important to bring along and that one could see an opportunity, which I mentioned in my second speech. You can combine the two parts. It may be heeded. It is strange that the consultation has not taken place along the way. That is also something I think the Government should take with it. There are examples of how the issue could be resolved, as has been shown by my previous speech. It is about the area of porpoises and synergies for domestic fishing where individuals fish for house needs. In view of the right action and the importance of local knowledge, my question is whether the government and ultimately the Government intend to take this essential information into account for decisions to be taken forward.
i-VPYgSCucz5QwcaxmKDxv3G	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! I will, of course, take the information with me. One of the greatest and best benefits of having interpellation debates in this House is when there are constructive interpellations with the aim of providing information or tips and ideas on how to develop issues. Of course, it always matters when you are constructive in the debate. Then it is something you remember in addition to referrals, basic proposals and other things that will form the basis for decisions eventually. I thank you for the input that has been made during the debate. I can conclude by saying that given all the many different challenges we face when it comes to fisheries, regardless of which fisheries we are talking about, there is a great need for us to come together politically and be able to take a holistic approach to these issues. My hope is that we will be able to take further steps when it comes to creating good conditions not only to ensure that they survive but also to develop some of these activities. I think it will be important now that we are launching a new programming period that we have the perspective of being able to broaden and develop selective tools, research and innovation in this area. They're very important. I know that this is a nutrition that is important not only for those who fish. It is much more important for people living in these places than one might realize until the day it is threatened. I am very grateful that we have this kind of discussion. As soon as the pandemic is over, I hope to be able to travel again. One of the goals I have is to be able to visit this part of Sweden, for example.
i-701331436ae0b94d-279	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether there are any concrete threats to Swedish democracy and how I intend to act to curb them, what measures I take within my responsibility in the government to promote a factual climate of debate in Sweden in order to avoid polarisation and contradictions within the country, and whether I believe that any measures are needed to strengthen democracy so that election results are respected regardless of outcome, and in that case which ones. The Government identifies in its strategy for democracy policy, Strategy for a strong democracy, three challenges for democracy in Sweden that need to be met. The first challenge is democratic exclusion, which means that a far too large part of the population does not participate or feel involved in our democracy. The second challenge is that the democratic dialogue is threatened, including by an increasingly harsh climate of dialogue in which democratic voices are silenced. The third challenge comes from anti-democratic actors who systematically use nä that, misinformation, violence and threats of violence in order to intimidate, silence and distort the debate. During 2020 – 2021, in connection with the 100th anniversary of democracy in Sweden, the government is carrying out an initiative that includes several efforts to meet the challenges and equip democracy for the future. Several of them are about strengthening people's ability and ability to participate in democratic processes. Among other things, 14 government agencies have been tasked with carrying out awareness-raising and education efforts. The government's measures to safeguard the democratic dialogue against threats and hatred are described in the Action Plan for the defence of the free word. It is about increased knowledge, support for those who are exposed and a strengthened judicial system. During 2018–2020, the Committee has also been tasked with working with outreach efforts that increase people's resilience to misinformation, propaganda and online hatred. In recent years, the Government has also implemented a large number of measures to combat and combat violent extremism and terrorism, including the work of the Security Service and the Political Authority, the work of the School Inspectorate and the Centre against violent extremism, and several legislative initiatives. Madam President, I would like It is my view that, as prominent politicians, we have a particular responsibility to keep a good and objective tone in the public debate. It is a responsibility that I know the whole government takes very seriously. It is also important that the political parties continue to hold an internal discussion on these issues and cultivate a culture based on the principle that political dialogue should be conducted with respect and sensitivity and in good and objective tone. At the same time, it is important to distinguish between using an unpleasant and disrespectful tone in the debate and making sharp criticism based on ideological differences of opinion. For example, to be criticized for what policy and which party you work with is not the same as not being treated respectfully. Finally, my assessment is that there is no threat to the general elections next year in such a way that any parliamentary party would not accept the result of the elections.
i-701331436ae0b94d-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer from Amanda Lind! . Kristersson should not believe that the Swedish Democrats fold and say as you wish. They will not, and then our country will be in danger. The Swedish Prime Minister, Amanda Lind's government colleague, Stefan Löfven, expressed himself in SVT's programme for 30 minutes. Madam President, I would like Stefan Löfven is quite right, of course, that we, with every fifth Swedish in our backs, will not lie down flat either for Stefan Löfven himself or for Ulf Kristersson and Ebba Busch. It would be to betray our constituents, and I cannot believe that any other party has found it reasonable or justified to renounce the parliamentary influence conferred on it by the voters. Instead, Madam President, the rhetoric of the government is about the state of opinion. In line with the failing support of the government parties and the increasingly limited prospects for socialist rule even after next year's elections, the intimidation of government representatives has increased. It does seem natural that, as a representative of a government party, one wishes to seek support for another term of office in power. Given this, it also seems natural to be concerned that opposition parties are increasingly consulting each other and offering a proper government alternative. At the same time, it would be desirable for the government parties, despite these circumstances, to act to stay within the limits of decency. Unfortunately, however, a number of representatives of the government and government parties have repeatedly expressed themselves deeply unworthy of the opposition's government alternatives. In SVT's 30 minutes, Stefan Löfven insinuated and warned that democracy is at stake if the Social Democrats were to lose power. In addition to the fact that intimidation consists of pure inaccuracies and delusions unworthy of our Prime Minister, rhetoric risks causing serious contradictions in the country. I have previously stated in both the text and the speaker's chair that if anyone seriously believes in the Prime Minister's words and others' moves in the area of the threat of democracy, there is a risk that there will be people who are prepared to go very far to save the allegedly threatened democracy. Each individual is ultimately responsible for his or her own actions, but it is not possible to escape the fact that in such a case it would be government representatives who seduced the individual in the first stage. Against this background, everyone should understand the consequences of shouting wolf. Madam President, I would like I do not attribute these statements to Amanda Lind, nor can I demand that she take full responsibility for them. The reason we are debating here today is that Amanda Lind is responsible Minister for Democracy, and I believe that the claims of government representatives that a conservative bloc would threaten our democracy in itself risk undermining it. It is a thesis strengthened by the Government's Strategy for a Strong Democracy – promoting, anchoring, defending, in which two of the three identified challenges for democracy are the increasingly harsh climate of dialogue and systematic disinformation, etc. I believe that when the Prime Minister paints the opposition as an illegitimate, he is dangerously close to being part of the two out of three challenges to democracy that the government itself has set itself.
i-701331436ae0b94d-298	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson believes that it is important to put your words right, not to misquote and the like. Then I think it is also important that Tobias Andersson does not do the same. Tobias Andersson claims that the Prime Minister has painted the opposition as illegitimate. This is something I hear in the debate, but it is not true. That is not what the Prime Minister said in the interview that Tobias Andersson refers to. I would like to have said this, Madam President, and then I am not going to devote this debate to reviewing or interpreting the statements of individual ministers or other representatives. Tobias Andersson has also said that he does not think I will either. On the other hand, I would like to say a few general words about democracy. What I have done in my answer to Tobias Andersson is to try to describe how Swedish democracy is doing and what threats and challenges I and the government and governments before it have seen. Then it is important to establish first of all that democracy is more – so much more – than going to vote every four years. It's about values. It is about involving people in democracy, and it is about ensuring that we have free and independent media. It is about having an association life and a civil society that is given good opportunities to operate. It is a question of having independent authorities that act freely from political mischievousness. It is about having a free art and cultural life that can criticize and review and that is free from power. Then it is important to say, as the Government's democracy strategy says, that Swedish democracy is fundamentally very strong. We've established that. We have high trust in social institutions, and we have many who go and vote. But there are challenges we need to take seriously. Just because we can see that there are threats to Swedish democracy, that there are challenges and that we are not vaccinated in Sweden from a development that we can see, for example, in our neighbouring countries in Europe such as Hungary and Poland, where democracy is going in the wrong direction, does not mean that anyone believes that democracy will be overturned after an election or that it would be under an acute threat. But for that matter, we should not be naive. I have stood here in the speaker's chair and discussed, for example, anti-democratic organisations with Tobias Andersson, and it is extremely important that we protect and promote our independent civil society from such actors. This also means, of course, that we must be able to discuss the proposals of parties and the ideologies of parties even from a democratic perspective, without having been rebutted that it is a question of portraying the opposition as illegitimate. I don't mind. Madam President, I would like I have criticised the policy of Sweden's democrats when it comes to free art, when it comes to the view of civil society and when it comes to draft budgets that I mean take steps that restrict, for example, civil society's ability to operate. It is for me, on the basis of my environmental-partisan green values, that it is a step in one direction that I do not want to see in terms of the robustness of our democracy. And that is what I assume we can continue to debate in an objective tone.
i-701331436ae0b94d-308	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the answer from Amanda Lind! First of all, I would like to say that I have in no way misquoted Stefan Löfven, but the quote I began my previous speech came directly from a renunciation of the programme concerned in substance. In any case, I have no doubt about Amanda Lind's passion for Swedish civil society or that she has very good intentions in that sense. It is clear that both in this House and in other contexts we will have reason to discuss the extent to which we are to fund civil society, what is important for democracy and what is more of grant organisations and so on. But that was not the actual purpose of the interpellation. Here we have statements from the Swedish Prime Minister which I think are problematic. I would like to discuss them in terms of democracy. The entrance of the Swedish Democrats, ever since we entered the Riksdag, has been to talk and seek consensus and, where possible, cooperation with all parties interested in the same. In other words, we are driven by the somewhat radical view in the Swedish context that a party's goal should be to hear the party's politics. Several other parties seem to see game theory, triangulation and positioning as goals in themselves at the expense of substance politics. Madam President, I would like In my previous speech, I touched on the risks of engaging in such incited, erroneous and unfailing democratic rhetoric as the Prime Minister has done. But let us play for a second with the idea that the thesis he has presented would be true, that Sweden's democracy stands and falls with whether any party talks and possibly cooperates with the Swedish Democrats. If this were the case, Swedish democracy would already have been greatly watered down today as a consequence of all the times the present Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has been dependent on our support and the times we have been part of joint parliamentary committees, held dialogue in committees and so on. Not a week goes by without us in this House supporting proposals from the government and voting in favour of them. If dialogue and cooperation with us were to pose a threat to democracy and result in danger to our country, this should already have been noticed. However, Madam President, the government does not want to know that. Instead, it continues to play out what was described in the media as its last card, in the form of dirty lying campaigns to discredit a democratic opposition. The Prime Minister and many others thereby joins an unmerciful group of world leaders who more or less authoritarianally and dictatorically undermine democratic and legitimate opposition. The question many people are asking is, therefore, whether the government would accept a loss of election. Madam President, I would like If the Prime Minister is serious about the fact that the end of the government power of the Social Democrats would be a real threat to democracy, one might understand to some extent that they would not accept the loss of elections. But if the Prime Minister does not find democracy threatened by a change of government, it is deeply serious that he claims it in the media. Amanda Lind's own assessment, according to her response to the interpellation, is that there is no threat to the general elections next year, ensuring that any parliamentary party would not accept the election result. That's a good thing. But then the question remains whether Stefan Löfven makes the same assessment and why in that case he expresses himself as he does. Does he wish to contribute actively to disinformation?
i-701331436ae0b94d-317	Madam President, I would like I can once again say that Tobias Andersson puts words in the mouth of my fellow governments that they have not spoken. No one has said that the opposition is illegitimate in any way. I would appreciate it if Tobias Andersson would stop saying these things. Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous speech, democratic development in one country consists of many things. It is, of course, a high turnout, but it is also about different types of fundamental values that Sweden has purposefully strived for for decades – to include more in our democracy, to strengthen the democratic functioning of our society and our authorities, and to strengthen the arm's length distance between politics and everything from civil society, art and culture to the media. When it comes to looking at threats to and challenges to our democracy, we must, Madam President, be able to discuss those things without having the upper hand thrown at us. For example, one must be able to talk about the different kinds of proposals and values that a party has, which would mean, for me, that we are taking the wrong steps in democratic development, without talking about the opposition being seen as illegitimate or claiming that democracy would be overturned after an election. No one does. As the government's democracy strategy says, we have several challenges we need to address, not least promoting democratic participation. There are far too many people in our democracy who are far from making their voice heard, and that is a problem. We have serious problems with hate and threats, not least online. It silences voice carriers. As a result, people refrain from participating in the political debate. It is clear that I wish, Madam President, that this is something for which all parties take responsibility, both in different Twitter threads and in the comments fields of their YouTube channels. It is important to say that democracy in Sweden is strong. It's something we've been fighting for and working too long, and we're going to protect it. Therefore, I protect a broad public service that reaches many and has broad trust. I think that proposals relating to restricting public service in different ways would be bad for our country. I think it is important that we safeguard our media pluralism and freedom. I therefore think that proposals made by the Swedish Democrats to restrict media support would be bad. I think it is very important that we have a free art and cultural life that can criticize and review the power. That is why I think it is bad that the Swedish Democrats want to withdraw support for free culture, as they did in their last draft budget. I also think it is bad when Swedish democratic representatives want to restrict the purchase of so-called contemporary art. Madam President, we must be able to discuss this without having to throw ourselves at the fact that we portray the opposition as illegitimate. I would also like to remind you that last year was the first since 2001 when a majority of the countries in the world were non-democrats. No country is immune to this development. We see in our own neighbourhood in the EU how countries restrict and gradually dismantle democratic principles. It limits the freedom of the media, narrows the scope for civil society and restricts the independence of the courts. We should also remember that today's authoritarian leaders often come to power through free elections and then slowly dismantle democracy from within. Then, of course, we must discuss which principles of liberal democracy are so important to protect. The basic ideology of the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party is different here. We shall, of course, continue to discuss and debate this, and we will certainly do so until the election movement – in an objective tone.
i-701331436ae0b94d-327	Madam President, I would like When Amanda Lind claims that the Swedish democrats want to restrict culture, the media landscape and so on, it should be borne in mind that the current government through governance documents, funding, its own rhetoric etcetera time after time does not have arm's length distance to culture, to the media and to academia. When you get upset with us, it is because we might want to withdraw the left-wing twist that has taken place in parts of the public institutions. We find it problematic that the government has succeeded in successfully getting a left-wing turn in, for example, public service, as mentioned. We want to hamper this, because we value objective institutions. In her reply, Amanda Lind touches on the government's strategy for a strong democracy. She points out how the increasingly harsh climate of conversation results in the silence of democratic voices. Of course it is, Madam President. In all honesty, I do not know how many young people, especially young girls, have renounced or left political involvement in the youth federations of the Swedish Democrats during the almost six years that I have led it, as a consequence of the slander committed by representatives of, among other things, the government parties. The stigmatisation of our party, which the government parties have systematically contributed to creating, has silenced countless young people, and now the Prime Minister wants to put the idea that democracy would be threatened if we had influence or, as he said, that it would be dangerous to travel with our country. Does Amanda Lind acknowledge that moves like these and other rhetoric from government representatives, among other things, risk threatening the democratic dialogue and contributing to the democratic challenges that have been pointed out?
i-701331436ae0b94d-331	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Tobias Andersson for an interesting debate. In September 1921, both men and women had to vote for the first time in parliamentary elections. This year we are celebrating this 100th anniversary throughout the country. This is something that both the Riksdag and the Government contribute to. In this context, I would like to state that democracy is not static but is constantly evolving. Although 100 years ago we definitely had a breakthrough for democracy in Sweden, we still have a lot to work with, and we still have a lot to protect and promote. We are celebrating the 100th anniversary of our democracy at a time when we are seeing a worrying development for democracy globally. Although I have stated in previous lines that Swedish democracy is strong, we still have several issues that we need to face. Tobias Andersson highlighted how the tone can be online. I would like to say that it is of course extremely important that everyone feels that they can make their voice heard. Of course, threats, hatred, violence and abuse of elected representatives do not belong anywhere – not against any party, not against any representatives – and I want to be extremely clear about that. Then the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party and the government have different views on how we should work to promote a good debate climate online. I have been standing here in the speaker's chair several times debating the responsibility of the great tech giants. Time after time I have met arguments from the Swedish Democrats with questions about that everyone should in principle be allowed to spread what they want. Never has the question been about responsibility for threatening and offensive material. Just two years ago Tobias Andersson demanded the abolition of the law on incitement to ethnic groups. I question how it would promote a positive online conversational climate. Madam President, I would like What I am taking with me from this debate is that it is important that we never forget that the democracy we have today is based on people's struggle for further rights. It is based on values and on many principles that we must uphold every day.
i-701331436ae0b94d-338	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase employment in Sweden and active iteten in the job seekers. Arbetsförmedlingen has an important role to play in supporting, motivating and helping the jobseeker to maintain an effective job search and a high level of search activity. In this work, it is also important that the control perspective is taken into account and strengthened in Arbetsförmedlingen's operations as it can help maintain a high search activity. A high level of search activity increases the chances of getting a job and is important for the legitimacy of unemployment insurance. It is therefore interesting that the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, has already studied how job search has changed during the pandemic. In the report How has the job search changed during covid-19? studies the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, the development of the number of newly registered places and the search activity on the Employment Service's job platform Platsbanken. IFAU writes that the number of newly registered seats in Platsbanken decreased by approximately 40 per cent during the period March to July 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019, which meant a 15 per cent reduction in the total number of ads in Platsbanken. In occupations involving social contacts, for example in hotels and restaurants, the number of job vacancies decreased most. The IFAU report also shows a change in search behaviour among the users of the Platsbanken with an increased interest in professions that have been less negatively affected by the crisis and where a greater proportion of the tasks can be performed from home. The results indicate a willingness of job seekers to adapt their search behaviour to the current circumstances of the labour market. IFAU states in the report that it is less likely that the temporary changes in unemployment benefit will drive the results, as the change in search activity is seen one month before the more generous benefit was implemented. In the report, IFAU has not been able to distinguish between unemployed and change-applicants, i.e. people who already have a job but want to switch to another job. IFAU therefore does not specifically study the search activity of unemployed people with unemployment benefits. It is likely that many who already have a job are waiting to apply for a new job during a crisis, which may explain why the activity in Platsbanken has decreased. Every month, the Employment Service conducts a so-called "applicant survey" in which the Agency asks about 1,300 registered jobseekers how many hours they have spent on job applicants in the last week. The applicant survey is reported once a quarter. In the applicant survey, the Authority can distinguish between job seekers with unemployment benefits and participants in a labour market policy programme. The search activity of unemployed persons with unemployment benefits was slightly lower in 2020 than it was in 2019 for the first three quarters of the year, but only for the third quarter is the difference statistically secured. The fourth quarter of 2020 was almost the same as in the previous year. In accordance with the budget proposal valid from the turn of the year, over SEK 100 billion has been added in 2021 to restart the economy while long-term reforms will help solve societal problems. Overall, the reforms are estimated to bring the unemployment rate to just over 1.3 percentage points lower than if the proposals are not implemented. This represents about 75,000 more jobs. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. Arbetsförmedlingen is strengthened by SEK 1 billion to meet the increased unemployment and to ensure an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. In addition, more than SEK 2 billion will be invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, tendered matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. In Arbetsförmedlingen's regulation letter for the current year, the Government commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to strengthen control work and to counteract undue payments. The assignment states that Arbetsförmedlingen will in a cost-effective way strengthen the control work regarding job seekers' search activities and inform the unemployment funds regarding employers who use subsidised employment and current independent actors. Arbetsförmedlingen shall provide an overall assessment based on the efforts carried out on how the authority assesses the effectiveness of the control work and the work towards incorrect payments in the Agency's annual report for 2021. The government will continue to monitor developments in the labour market.
i-701331436ae0b94d-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the many-worded answer! Of course, one should never speculate on why confidence in a Minister for Labour is halved by the Swedish people in a short time. But one explanation could be that we do not have a Minister for Labour. The title should rather be the Minister of Unemployment. There is probably no other government that has dismantled a successful working line in as short a time as this government has. There has been a huge increase in unemployment insurance, the removal of qualification requirements and the increase in other contributions, which of course has consequences. What happens when you make it less profitable to work? What happens when you remove incentives to work? Well, then unemployment is rising. I have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to analyse on objective grounds what happens to equilibrium unemployment in Sweden when the contributions are raised as much as this government has done. The answer from Parliament's investigation service is clear. It is a question of an increase in balanced unemployment of about 40 000 people. There are as many people living in the entire municipality of Sandviken. This interpellation is about the news that was in Ekott in Swedish Radio and that one could not unexpectedly see that the activity on the Swedish Public Employment Service's website Platsbanken decreased sharply in connection with the outbreak of the Corona epidemic last year. It is just as the Minister says that IFAU has assessed labour market policy. Competition for job vacancies should have increased when unemployment rose, but according to the study it became the opposite, and job seekers became less active. According to scientists, this may have exacerbated the crisis. Madam President, I would like So we must have a business policy that works. We must have a policy that enables companies to, want to and dare to employ. We must do everything we can to ensure that we have an active economic policy. It's one side of the coin. The other side of the coin, Madam President, is, of course, that the unemployed actually have a moral obligation to look for a job. That is what this report shows. And that is what Parliament's investigation service shows. When you raise your contributions so strongly that it doesn't pay to work, it has consequences. I represent the constituency of Gävleborg, which has perhaps among the highest unemployment rates in Sweden. Before the pandemic, when I went around visiting companies, it was often and actually quite quickly realised that they had read in the newspapers about the high unemployment rate, but it was not understood where the job seekers were. It didn't matter whether it was a high-tech company in Hudiksvall or a restaurant in Gävle that needed people for the service profession. They had about the same picture. It will then be a danger and a horror that the government will not forcefully engage in, for example, restoring the unemployment fund and making it less advantageous to be free at someone else's expense because you do not seek and take the jobs that exist. It is also a moral issue. The mother of two in Ljusdal steps up every morning at 6 p.m., gets in the car, goes to work and does the right thing. Her tax money should, of course, go to the core business of society and not to pay for the unemployment of others. I would like to have an answer to the question I have asked. What measures does the Minister intend to take to increase employment in Sweden and to increase the activity of job seekers?
i-701331436ae0b94d-358	Madam President, I would like The government is taking historically strong action on the basis of the pandemic and serious situation that we find ourselves in, linked to covid-19. For this year, more than SEK 100 billion will be invested in order to restart the economy. It's about 175 000 jobs. The government is also taking strong action in the field of labour market policy. Only today, together with the Labour Market Policy spokesperson of the Centre Party, I was able to present further efforts on, among other things, additional services and matching services and to ensure that those who are farthest from the labour market receive the right support to get to work. There is no doubt that we have a very serious situation in the Swedish labour market. There is a division between the Swedish economy and the Swedish labour market. We see that there are major shortcomings, and that there are great opportunities with the right education to be able to get a new job. At the same time, we also see that large groups are outside. A key element is to invest in education policy, to ensure that people have the right skills for the job vacancies. If you enter Platsbanken on a normal day, like today, you can see that there are always over a hundred thousand vacancies. How we can get the match in a better way is interesting. The government is working very intensively on it. I naturally welcome Lars Beckman's commitment to these issues, Madam President. But it would also be interesting to hear whether Lars Beckman has an idea of his own about how to suppress unemployment. What we hear most of the time is, we're going to lower and lower the unemployment fund, and we're going to introduce different types of grant ceilings. Madam President, there is nothing that will help. Deteriorating the security of ordinary wage earners is not a result of which we either avoid the pandemic or the virus or create more jobs. As I said, it would be nice if Lars Beckman could present what options he has for the government's strong efforts. We have made all these efforts to give hundreds of thousands of Swedes the opportunity to benefit from the short-term lay-off system that we introduced last year. It is very successful in saving Swedish jobs. Of course, we Social Democrats and the government that I represent see not only the need to save jobs and businesses, but also the need to strengthen the security of ordinary people in the form of better unemployment benefits. In addition, I would like to add that good unemployment insurance does not only contribute to the security of the individual. It also means that we can increase and improve the adaptability of the Swedish labour market and maintain purchasing power in the economy. In a time of economic crisis, it is particularly important that people can consume and that they have economic security.
i-701331436ae0b94d-365	Madam President, I would like I have a confession to make. The Social Democrats are world champions in raising contributions. You're in a class by yourself, Eva Nordmark. There is no party in Sweden – possibly the Left Party – that can compete with you in terms of premium increases. One might wonder who in Sweden of the Social Democrats is going to work and who is going to pay tax. Then I will come back to what the Parliamentary Investigation Service says about the large increases in unemployment benefits that this government has made with the support of the Center Party, as the Minister says. Well, when you evaluate it, you can see that there will be an increase in balanced unemployment of about 40,000 people. What did the government do last year? For example, the activity report was removed, contributions were increased and the qualifying period in the unemployment fund was shortened. There are consequences. That's what this interpellation is about. The report referred to by Dagens E ko is also about that. With regard to employment policy, it is interesting that the Minister highlights extra services, which are one of the most unsuccessful labour market policy reforms in Sweden's history. It is 6% that goes to non-subsidised jobs from extra services. 94% don't. And the cost is maybe 10 billion. The Minister is happy to develop how the establishment allowance has gone, which was launched three years ago. The fast track for new arrivals would improve integration. How'd it go with that? What about the trainee jobs, which were Stefan Lövven's election promise in 2014? I don't even think they're there. I think they've been shut down. This is how we can proceed with point after point. The Minister is quite right, however. That is why I began my first speech by saying that it is perhaps fairer to say the Minister for Unemployment instead of the Minister for Labour. Because the latter can lead the idea wrong, to people getting jobs. It does not seem to be this government's priority. At the top of the government list it doesn't seem to say: How am I going to get people to work? If it did, it would of course produce some form of action that works. If the minister went to my hometown of Gävle and met some restaurant owners or Sandviken and met leading restaurant entrepreneurs there, the minister could ask how it has worked with the support. I think it would be a shock for the Minister to hear how few of the subsidies have really reached those who need it. There is no party that can compete with the Social Democrats in raising subsidies. You are absolutely unique in this matter, with the support of the Center Party. I read the article about the extra services. I guess that's the way it is when you're dealing with each other. You have had to give something to the Center, and the Center suddenly supports extra services, to which they have been genuinely critical in the past. This interpellation is therefore about how the activity of job seekers should increase. How will the Minister encourage people to apply for available vacancies if it is not worthwhile to work? I have not even mentioned the increase in petrol taxation, the bonus– malus, the deterioration of infrastructure and the loss of travel deductions, everything that makes it more difficult for people, and that the gap is even more narrowing between having a job and going to unemployment funds. Everything else equal, if we just look at wage income, what does the Minister intend to do to increase the activity of job seekers so that you take the available vacancies or make yourself employable?
i-701331436ae0b94d-375	Madam President, I would like One of the most persistent myths often heard from the right is that the unemployment fund is a contribution. I want to inform Lars Beckman that the unemployment fund is not a grant. It's a conversion insurance that aims to secure your, mine and other people's income between jobs. One should be able to feel confident that one does not become poor if one loses one's job. Especially in such a crisis that we are now in, it is vital that people should be able to feel safe. Now that we are investing so much in saving jobs and businesses, it is also important to ensure that employees are safe and also to maintain purchasing power in the economy. The fact that unemployment funds provide financial security between jobs is good for the individual and for our society. The Social Democratic labour market policy is both duty and right. The point is that when you get unemployment benefit, you should be at the disposal of the labour market and you should actively look for a job. There is no exception to this under the coronapendem, Madam President. I want to be very clear about that. Everyone who can work should work. Point. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the government also agrees to strengthen the control system within the unemployment fund, on Lars Beckman's question. You should not be able to cheat on compensation, and you should not be able to get unemployment benefit without applying for a job. It is absolutely crucial for the legitimacy of our entire welfare structure and, of course, for unemployment benefits and unemployment insurance as such. We therefore spend a total of SEK 47 million in the field of labour market policy to combat cheating, mispayments and lack of search activity. What I was talking about now was about duty. The Social Democratic labour market policy is both duty and right. With regard to the right, there must be financial security between jobs for the eligible person. One should be able to feel confident that the unemployment insurance fund is a conversion insurance, and it provides financial security for the individual.
i-701331436ae0b94d-382	Madam President, I would like No, when it comes to raising contributions and lowering demands, the Social Democrats are world champions. This may be because the Minister for Employment, I'm sorry, the Minister for Labour, knows his target group and his electorate very well. That is the order you make to the Social Democrats. In the past, perhaps the man who worked at Sandvik voted for the Social Democrats. Now he's voting for another party. Anyone who has moved to Sandviken from another country may vote for the Social Democrats. What about reality? TV4's news page said this morning: There is a risk that the figure will exceed 200 000 by the end of the year. It's terrible. If you combine this with the report on which the interpellation is concerned, that is to say, the search activity went down with the job seekers, it brings us back to the moral issue, Madam President. Let us take, for example, a mother of two in Ljusdal who gets up every morning and does the right thing, rides 30 miles with the car, goes to work, picks up the children or drives them to leisure activities afterwards. The moral point of this should be that she should reasonably earn more than the one who does not do the same. It must be sad when there are reports that activity dropped sharply when it should have increased. I take note of what the Minister said in his reply. But can it really not be ruled out that the high levels of compensation and the removals last year on, for example, reporting have led to an unnecessarily high level of unemployment and that the report shows what it does? Can the Minister for Labour really rule it out?
i-701331436ae0b94d-385	Madam President, I would like We have not introduced any more lax requirements during the pandemic. As I have explained in my reply here in the debate, which can be read afterwards, we are investing in strengthening the control function. I find it sad that the Moderates have become a completely unimaginative party. When I ask the question of what the Moderates want to do instead for more people to get into work and for us to be able to create more jobs, the answer is only about cutting back on compensation and saying untimely things to ministers in this House, but it does not help those who are unemployed. It could possibly be a little fun for the moment. However, it does not help those who have lost their job or are concerned about the future. Instead, this government is committed to making a huge return to welfare and to a green start in the economy. We're spending over $100 billion this year to create 75,000 jobs. We have also ensured that hundreds of thousands of Swedes are covered by the short-term work system, to name a few. I repeat them again for Lars Beckman. The only thing the Moderates bring is old cabinet food. We know the consequences of moderate labour market policies. In 2019 the resources were slaughtered to the Employment Service. The work line is for the Moderates to get people to look for jobs by making the compensations as low as possible. Instead, we need a strong and active labour market policy that is available throughout the country and provides training opportunities for future jobs. It is such a labour market policy that the government stands for.
i-701331436ae0b94d-390	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I am going to come forward with the proposals on the basis of the parties' draft agreement, how I intend to finance the reform if it is implemented in its current form and how I believe the proposal will contribute to creating more jobs for young people if it is implemented in the current form. The Negotiating and Co-operation Council PTK, IF Metall, the Association of Municipal Workers and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have signed a principle agreement on security, transition and employment protection. Part of the parties' agreement in principle is to introduce a new and parallel public study grant. On 4 December 2020, the parties jointly asked the government to modernise labour law in accordance with the agreement in principle. Through their historic agreement, the parties have taken a major responsibility for developing the Swedish labour market model. The agreement takes a holistic approach to providing adaptability and flexibility for companies and security and transition for employees. This means that we are better equipped to deal with structural change and a changing labour market. This is also important for Swedish competitiveness. The basic agreement on security, transition and employment protection shall be seen as a whole. In order to be able to handle the issues properly, three internal letter investigations have been decided to implement the Party Agreement. One of the investigations has been tasked with making proposals on how to implement the agreement in principle in line with the parties' proposals in the parts relating to new and parallel public study support. A starting point for the mission is that the new support should be designed on the basis of socially sustainable principles and should, as far as possible, be implemented on the basis of existing structures. This includes ensuring that the aid is designed as cost-effectively as possible and enabling conditions to ensure overall cost control. The assignment also includes an ongoing presentation of the public financial and socio-economic consequences of the proposals. The assignment shall be presented by 15 May 2021. I look forward to hearing the conclusions of the investigation. The government will come back on these issues.
i-701331436ae0b94d-396	Madam President, I would like This interpellation is therefore about the free year that is planned to be introduced in Sweden. I have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to analyse the public-financial impact of having employees who have been employed for eight years study for a maximum of 44 weeks with a remuneration equivalent to 80 per cent of their salary in accordance with what is said to be the parties' proposal. According to the analysis, the bottom plate is around 9 billion, but the cost may double if fully utilised. Of course, it is a concern if you want to use 16 billion to give people time off. What does Transport say, for example? This is what Linda Svensson from the transport union in the newspaper Arbetsverket says:中 Is it really wise to spend tax money on education for people who have a job? I would rather strengthen the Employment Service and training support for the unemployed. It is clear that we want to give Transport the right thing in this matter. The Bankruptcy Institute has concluded that the measure leads to fewer hours worked and lower hours worked. Researchers at IFAU in Uppsala say that the reform leads to lower future income and previous retirement but does not have any effect on sick leave. Madam President, I would like So we are talking about a reform that could cost the taxpayer 17 billion – 17 000 million. And what is lying is not a temporary free year, as when the Green Party made sure that people could go on recreation courses or take meaningless courses in fly fishing, it is a permanent measure. Thus, during one term of office, the worst case scenario could be a cost of 80 billion. I have asked questions as to whether the Minister intends to proceed with this proposal and – perhaps the most important – how it is to be financed. Where do you get 80,000 million, which is equal to 80 billion? Then one might say this: it is the parties who have agreed on this, so we think it is a good thing. Yes, it is just that the parties have requested taxpayers to pay, Madam President. The parties have requested that someone else pay up to 80 billion. In some way it has to be financed. Is this to be done through increased income taxes, increased corporate taxes or reduced subsidies, or how are you going to get this many billions? I'm curious to find out more about that. I would like to know how the Government believes that such an initiative should be financed and how it will create more jobs for young people. Does the Minister share Transport's criticism? Is there anything in what Transport is saying, namely that we should rather strengthen aid for the unemployed, so that they are trained and able to get to work? We have seen today's headlines, Madam President. Long-term unemployment in Sweden is record high, according to TV4. Widar Andersson, a Social Democratic editorial, today had a long leader on this, in which he notes that major educational efforts are needed for the unemployed. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Swedish people want to know how this is to be financed and why stronger measures are not taken instead for the unemployed.
i-701331436ae0b94d-405	Madam President, I would like The government is taking historically strong measures to repress unemployment, to save Swedish jobs and companies and to strengthen employees in the tough situation we find ourselves in. As regards the historical agreement that the parties have signed, an investigation is currently under way within the Government Office. The study support system is being investigated right now. Of course, part of the investigation work is to make very careful calculations of the socio-economic and fiscal consequences of the proposals. This is part of a very serious preparatory work, and I am not going to anticipate either the work of the investigation or the forthcoming budgetary process. The labour market is changing. Digitisation and the green transition, but also globalisation, mean that old jobs disappear and new jobs are added at a very high speed. This places new knowledge requirements on the labour market. The wage earners must be given a chance to keep up with these developments. It is important for no one to fall behind, but it is also important for Swedish competitiveness. Madam President, we shall continue to compete with knowledge. As the labour market changes, opportunities for change also need to be changed and improved. It must be possible to retrain in order to strengthen one's position in the labour market when one's industry changes. Not least now, during the coronapandemine, we have seen what a rapid change this means specifically for certain industries in the Swedish labour market. The social partners have presented a broad agreement covering several areas with several demands on the state, and the parties see their agreement as a whole. Student support is part of several that are part of this whole. There are many reasons why the study drug is important. With a new study system, employees can strengthen their position on the labour market and avoid unemployment. They can build on their knowledge, so that Sweden can be at the forefront of technology shifts and so that we get a well-trained workforce that can take the jobs where we currently have a lack of the right skills. Good opportunities for retraining are also important for us to manage a longer working life and be able to work higher up the age group. I know that the Moderates are a party that defends Swedish competitiveness and knows how important it is that we have good adaptability. I hope that there will be a broad consensus in Parliament behind the parties' agreement.
i-701331436ae0b94d-411	Madam President, I would like Today's News has examined what the free year can mean and the content of the reform. It was published on 28 February this year, I can tell you that the Government does not read Dagens Nyheter. The answers about what a new year of release would mean from the parties to the agreement were quite interesting. One of the questions was: Should you study courses in Game of Throne and generally philosophizing? Yes, one of the parties responds. No, someone else answers. Here's the thing, Madam President. I think that the Council of State could give some straight and clear answers tonight, for example about what the Council itself thinks. Then, of course, it is about what the investigation concludes and what others think. But to illustrate: Should you study imam courses in Saudi Arabia for a year with 80 percent of your salary? We've seen it happen. Yes or no? Should you be allowed to study Game of Thrones science with 80 percent of your salary? Are you allowed to take courses in fly fishing? Are you allowed to go to the south coast of England and read English? I am not sure that Imam courses in Saudi Arabia will strengthen Swedish competitiveness. But it would be interesting to find out what the Minister thinks. What's fair? The Minister did not respond to the merciless criticism of Transport, which wants the money to go to the 700 000 long-term unemployed. The news today reports that we have record long-term unemployment. In the past, I and the Minister have discussed the runaway long-term unemployment rate for young people. In my constituency, Gävleborg, long-term unemployment for young people has risen by 35 per cent in one year. Of course, every single krona we can free up in the budget should go to those who are long-term unemployed in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the individual. Of course, the individual always has a responsibility to make himself employable, no matter where he comes from, what age he has and what sex he has. But society is there with security to help. If you are going to invest 80 000 million – up to 80 billion – it would be interesting if the Government had any idea how to use this money. Is it for Game of Throne courses, as a trade union organization thought it was obvious that you should go? Maybe it's good if you're a game developer; I don't know. But if you are not a game developer or something else, this may not be the best way to spend the money. I would like to know what kind of arrangement this year of freedom is, at a cost of up to 80 billion, as the Government sees. Should you, for example, be able to go to Saudi Arabia and study imam courses? Should you be able to study Game of Throne courses with 80 percent of your salary? What courses does the Government see before it?
i-701331436ae0b94d-417	Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not understand why Lars Beckman is trying to confuse the voters by talking about a free year. It has never ever been the case that this government should introduce a free year. It's nonsense. I would also like to say that I do not really believe that Lars Beckman believes that this study grant would go to some kind of hobby course. I think it is unfortunate – and indeed, quite frankly, unseriously – by Lars Beckman to try to spread a nid picture and draw these examples. What Lars Beckman is trying to express is a nid picture. Basically, this is an historic agreement between the parties on the Swedish labour market, where the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has entered into, among other things. I must say, Madam President, that I find this deeply unfortunate. As the labour market changes, we must be able to deliver new reforms to our security systems in order to meet up with them. We must be able to change laws and regulations, and we must be able to ensure that we do this in a way that strengthens the Swedish labour market model. The fact that we have strong and responsible parties is a huge asset for Sweden, and it is this – that we have a very good conversion capacity and that the parties take a great responsibility – that makes us competitive. Last year, when the reform of short-term work was introduced, it took five hours before the first collective agreement was signed. It was the employers in Visita who, together with the Hotel and Restaurant Union, signed the first collective agreement, and then just raged. In 2020 – an extremely difficult year – Sweden did not have a single day of conflict; in all negotiations on collective agreements, the parties could agree. I believe that the historic agreement that the parties have reached, covering both security, transition and employment protection, is a sign of strength for the Swedish model. Now we've taken care of the side agreement. This is under investigation, and the assignment must be reported by 15 May 2021. In the near future, therefore, we will have concrete proposals on the table.
i-701331436ae0b94d-424	Madam President, I would like Speaking of the violent media criticism that the Minister for Labour now expressed, it is therefore the case that I have quoted the article of Dagens Nyheter from 28 February, where the parties are interviewed, with exactly the questions I put to the Minister. So the heading is Plug anything with 80 percent of the salary. Today's News asks: Should a nurse read philosophy, a car mechanic learn batik or a recreational teacher study Game of Throne with 80 percent of the salary? I think that these are perfectly reasonable questions that today's News has asked. What is interesting is to read what the parties answer to the specific questions I have asked about this free year. It is clear from the article in Dagens Nyheter on February 28 that even the journalist – and DN – thinks this is very free-year-like. On the question of whether people should study Game of Throne, Kommunal says: Yes, you should study that. The Swedish Enterprise's answer is that they cannot answer. Obviously, there are different interpretations. What is interesting is that the parties have signed some kind of agreement that taxpayers should pay, and that is, of course, what Transport criticises. They believe, which is perfectly reasonable, that any tax chandelier that the government can shake forward should go to strengthening the long-term unemployed. We cannot have an alien society, Madam President, where 700 000 people are long-term unemployed. The minister may call it unserious, or what the minister said, but I think the News of Today had a very clarifying article. That's also the article I've repositioned this interpellation. I note that the Minister does not want to answer what it may cost and that she does not want to answer the specific questions as to what courses she can imagine. That, in itself, is also clarification.
i-701331436ae0b94d-431	Madam President, I would like I think I have been very clear during this debate that these are issues that are being investigated right now. I will not be prior to the investigations, nor will I be prior to the budgetary process that lies ahead. This isn't about a free year. This isn't about taking any hobbies. What this is all about is strengthening Swedish competitiveness and Swedish adaptability. We're supposed to be a country that embraces change. We will welcome new technology and be at the forefront of the green transition. We're going to embrace knowledge and compete with knowledge. In order to achieve this, we need to have good adaptability. There we have the Swedish model as an incredibly important tool. This is something I am incredibly proud of. The work of the parties and the Swedish model are absolutely crucial. Through the historic agreement entered into by the parties, they have taken great responsibility for developing the Swedish labour market model. We need both better adaptability, greater flexibility for companies and security in transition for employees. I think, of course, Madam President, that it is positive if there is commitment to these issues. This is important and central both for Sweden's future as well as for a much more well-functioning labour market and a strengthened competitiveness. At the same time, I would like to call on the Member of Parliament, Lars Beckman, to be a little more patient and to wait for the proposals of the inquiry, which will come on 15 May.
i-701331436ae0b94d-437	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take in the near future to reduce unemployment. The outbreak of covid-19 has led to a global economic crisis and to a rapid rise in unemployment in 2020, both in Sweden and in other countries. The government has taken strong measures to reduce the impact of the pandemic on jobs and businesses. Through support for short-term work, hundreds of thousands of employees have so far avoided the risk of losing their jobs and companies have been able to retain important labour. The Swedish economy recovered stronger than expected in autumn 2020, to which the government's measures contributed. The growth in unemployment slowed down in the second half of 2020, and the unemployment forecast has been revised downwards to varying degrees by both the Government and the Institute of Economic Development and the Public Employment Service compared to previous estimates. In accordance with the budget proposal for 2021, over SEK 100 billion has been added in 2021 to restart the economy, while long-term reforms will help solve societal problems. Overall, the reforms are estimated to bring the unemployment rate to just over 1.3 percentage points lower than if the proposals are not implemented. This represents about 75,000 more jobs. The investment in labour market policy amounts to over SEK 9 billion in 2021. The employment agency's administrative grant is increased by approximately SEK 1 billion to meet the rising unemployment rate and to ensure an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. More than SEK 2 billion is invested to increase the number of participants in labour market training, procured matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. The Government works to introduce start-up jobs for newly arrived and long-term unemployed in 2021, as proposed by the parties. The reform of the Employment Service continues to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. Sweden has the highest participation rate in the EU and, unlike in many other countries, its participation rate has been maintained at a high level during the crisis. This is an important reason why unemployment in Sweden has increased in relation to many other countries. But we have entered this crisis with a good starting point. Sweden currently has 350 000 more in work compared to when the government took office in 2014, of which about 100 000 more are working in welfare. During this period an economic policy was also conducted that turned the government budget deficit into large surpluses, which has laid the foundations for the necessary reforms and that Sweden is well equipped to deal with the economic consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. The progress of vaccination gives hope for 2021, both in terms of human health and economic development. However, the uncertainty surrounding economic development is high and depends largely on how the spread of infection and vaccination develops in the future in Sweden and abroad.
i-701331436ae0b94d-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. The Minister for Labour has often had to debate unemployment in this House. The subject is also one of the most important to a government, hence the concern of the Moderates and the high number of debates. When I was a teenager, my first job was strawberry picker — a summer job. All the kids in my village had a summer job. It was planting and strawberry picking, and during one summer we even collected elk droppings for export to Japan. The joy and pride of receiving the first salary and achieving the dream of buying what was longed for was extremely central to us. So we also made money in front of the driver's license. In Norrland in particular, the vast majority of people could and wanted driving licences on their 18th anniversary right away. Driving licences meant freedom, and this also strengthened the possibility of getting a job. Today, many young people cannot afford a driving licence. It also limits the possibility of getting the first job. The importance of a job for young people is therefore central. Nothing has changed since then. These dreams for young people are still alive. Here time has really stood still. We could even get a job in adulthood and after studying, and we could change jobs. Those possibilities existed, that is, freedom. We could buy the first furniture. The difference today is that the youth unemployment rate in my county, Jämtland County, has worsened so tremendously, and that also applies on a national level. It is remarkable that the other nations of the European Union were wise enough to invest and equip for a better working situation and then during a boom. 25 out of 27 nations in the EU improved the unemployment situation, but not Sweden. Here unemployment increased in a boom. In 2014, Sweden was twelve on unemployment, in 2019 only three nations were behind Sweden. Sweden and the government had and do not have a labour market policy worthy of the name as opposed to other EU countries, and this applies in both high- and recession – so frustrating. In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we have waited and questioned the absence of reforms and proposals to improve the situation regarding the very high level of unemployment. The proposals should fall into such a difficult position for the important jobs. Instead, we see unemployment that stands out in the negative direction of the other nations. We need faith in the future, and it hurts when people lack it. The government's lack of solutions harms people, and mental illness is also rising at a furious rate. With the failure we see in labour market policy, and as we have seen for seven years now, my question to the Minister for Labour is: what new concrete measures does the government intend to take to remedy the very serious situation in the labour market?
i-701331436ae0b94d-456	Madam President, I would like This government has taken historically strong measures to combat unemployment and, above all, to save many Swedish jobs in a very tough situation due to the covid ‐ 19 ‐ pandemic. I would like to take up what I think is very important that the interpellier here highlights, namely youth unemployment. I only had the opportunity today to meet with the government's youth policy council to hold a discussion on how we can work together and develop the work to give young people jobs, to get them into education, to make young people feel that they are important and that they are needed. It is a very tough situation right now for many young people in the labour market, but they should know that they are needed. And we are taking very many different types of measures for young people. For young people who do not have completed upper secondary education, it is very important that they complete upper secondary education. For this reason, the Government has given the Public Employment Service a mandate to increase transitions to studies or study motivations for young people who do not have upper secondary education. We have implemented and continue to invest in a significant knowledge boost, which we have expanded with thousands of training places in recent years. It's about giving individuals, both young and adults, the opportunity in a tough time to replenish with new knowledge and skills so that you stand stronger when the economy turns and the jobs start to come back. Compared with previous crises, it looks the same way that young people are hit hard and hit quickly in a downturn, as we saw last year. If we compare with the 1990s crisis, when I myself was young and unemployed for some time at home in Norrbotten, or if we compare with the 2009-2010 financial crisis, we see that unemployment has now drawn to about the same levels as then. What is important to say, if there are any young people listening to this debate, is that once the economy turns around, it is the young people who get the fastest job. Yes, young people are hit hard and only in a downturn in the economy. But it is also the young people who then get jobs when the economy turns around, and it is hopeful. And we can see that young people have shorter periods of unemployment than adults in general. The important thing for us is to ensure that young people do not get stuck, that long-term unemployment does not get stuck, because it is dangerous for young people. It is therefore gratifying, I think, that according to the latest figure I have seen, from February this year, 58% of all those who are unemployed and enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen are studying full-time. Nearly six out of ten young people who are unemployed and enrolled in the Employment Service are therefore full-time students. It's something very good, because it's smart to use the time to educate yourself. The government continues to invest in expanding the number of training places. Today, I was also able to inform you of further reinforcements in labour market policy. We have extended Dua's mission, i.e. the Delegation for Young and Newcomers to work. So we are doing a great deal precisely to support young people to get into work.
i-701331436ae0b94d-465	Madam President, I would like Prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats' main election promise was that Sweden would have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. It was also expressed: You can challenge me to the jobs. Those were big words, and we know the result now. Madam President, I would like I wonder what happened, or rather what did not happen, and the Minister is happy to describe it. I do not believe that at any time in the debates that have taken place in this House we have been given an explanation of why the government could not succeed as the other nations in a boom. The pandemic is often cited as a cause of the very worrying unemployment figures. The unemployment rate is 8.6 per cent in the country and 11.6 per cent in the case of youth unemployment. Only nations like Greece, Spain and Italy are behind us. Sweden is currently the fifth worst in the EU as a whole in unemployment. I understand that it is troubling for the Minister for Labour, who certainly has good intentions with his mission. Supply support in hard-pressed municipalities is running out, and the government is investing in extra services, which are fully subsidised, instead of real jobs. How can we trust a government that fails to deliver jobs in a boom? What are the reforms for more people in work? In view of the failure of the labour market policy we have now seen over seven years, in economic boom and recession, my question to the Minister for Labour is: what new concrete measures do the Minister for Labour and the Government intend to take to remedy the very serious unemployment?
i-701331436ae0b94d-472	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are trying to describe the government's policy as being passive and doing nothing. Saila Quicklund said in her previous post that there will be no proposals. Let me remind you of perhaps the most important proposal, namely the budget proposal. Here we invest over 100 billion extra. These are very strong investments, also in labour market policies of SEK 9 billion. All the time we work hard to get new reforms in place, control our authorities and create the conditions for people to both equip themselves and be able to get closer to work. Let me mention two examples. Just recently, I presented an investment of 200 million in jobs for young people. The Government has commissioned the Public Employment Service to allocate 200 million to municipalities that employ young people who are far from the labour market, i.e. the young people I spoke of earlier who are neither working nor studying and have the greatest needs. We did this last year too, but the new thing for this year is that we are targeting half of these resources to young people who live in particularly socio-economically vulnerable situations. This is therefore also an important initiative for equality. Tomorrow, both Mrs President and Mrs Quicklund will be happy to listen when I have my press meeting with Maria Mindhammar, Director General of the Employment Service. We will present what we agree on in the January Agreement, namely an intensive year for new arrivals. We work hard and actively and do everything we can to create the best conditions for people to get into work or be able to equip themselves to take the jobs that are emerging in the economy. It is a tough and serious situation and, of course, I am concerned about the increase in long-term unemployment, youth unemployment and the situation of women born abroad in the labour market. Here we work actively to see what more we can do together with municipalities and other actors to contribute more to providing the right support. But it is also important to raise your eyes a little and see that there are great opportunities. It's not over. In Platsbanken there are currently more than 100,000 vacancies, so there are jobs to apply for. Many employers are looking for the right skills. In many important professions there is a shortage of labour, and if you choose to train in a profession where there is a shortage, the job opportunities are very good. We are not going to paint a dark picture, but on the contrary, we are going to see the great opportunities we have. The fact that we could go into the pandemic of order and order in the state finances and that we have been able to take strong measures to save jobs and businesses, support employees and contribute more activities in labour market policy, for example, is of course extremely important in order to create the best conditions for jobs in Sweden.
i-701331436ae0b94d-481	Madam President, I would like Today we were able to take note of the government's news about more money for Arbetsförmedlingen. It is quite remarkable that the Minister sees this as a solution to unemployment. The government can allocate huge funds to an authority without getting better results. Without management and control, the Employment Service will not work, and I am talking about management and governance from the government and the Minister for Labour. We have previously taken note of information that the Public Employment Service provided 1.5 per cent of the jobs and returned SEK 9.6 billion last year, of which nearly SEK 6 billion was intended for the work of the unemployed. More money will therefore hardly solve unemployment. It may be tempting to allow a press conference to give impetus to action, but given that the Employment Service returned many billions, it can be interpreted as a tactical and populist move. Inaction in labour market policies is widespread. The education obligation does not work either. Only 10% of the target group goes into regular studies. Already before the pandemic, effective interventions such as traineeships and new start-up jobs had decreased over several years. Let me conclude the debate by thanking the Minister for Employment for the opportunity for dialogue on an important issue for Sweden. I will conclude by asking: what lessons has the Minister learned from this situation?
i-701331436ae0b94d-487	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Quicklund for the debate. It is clear that the Moderates are critical of government policy, and there is nothing strange about it. It is sad, however, that I do not hear any suggestions from the Moderates as to how they would like to reverse developments. What the government does with the cooperation parties is through historically strong measures and initiatives in this year's budget to ensure that jobs are created in Sweden. Many fantastic investments are being made in our elongated country, and not least in northern Sweden, from which I come, we see a huge development. We also see how many jobs will be created around the country. In addition to investing in green change and in developing welfare, we are strengthening the unemployment fund and investing in labour market policy throughout our elongated country. We are also creating educational opportunities for future jobs. This is the policy we stand for. I thank you for the debate and hope to be able to come back. It is important that we debate these issues and continue to develop labour market policies.
i-701331436ae0b94d-492	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me if I intend to take any legislative measures that will make it easier for municipalities to form their own municipal surveying authorities, how I view the fact that municipalities that are dissatisfied with the state surveying service continue to apply to form their own municipal surveying authority and what the conditions are for those municipalities that have already applied or are now considering submitting an application for a decision so that the operation can start on 1 January 2023. The lack of competence when it comes to surveyors in Sweden remains a problem, as Statskontoret also pointed out in its report Shared responsibility for property formation from 2018. It also notes that shared ownership contributes to the efficient use of resources, which in turn makes it more difficult to achieve equal treatment of owners in terms of price and duration of proceedings. The Government has made demands on the State Land Surveying Authority and has taken several measures to make the follow-up and processing times in the real estate formation activities of the State Land Surveying Authority shorter and more predictable. There is currently no work going on to amend the Act (1995:1393) on Municipal Land Surveying Authority. The law in place allows municipalities to submit an application to establish a municipal surveying authority to Lantmäteriet. The application together with Lantmäteriet's opinion will then be sent to the Government Office for processing. The government then makes decisions according to the requirements of the law. If the municipality meets the requirements, it is authorised to establish a municipal surveying authority. The length of time taken to deal with such a case is not possible to answer further. All public authorities, both state and municipal, need to be able to meet the needs of society. I am keen that Sweden has a well-functioning real estate development business throughout the country.
i-701331436ae0b94d-496	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an extremely important issue, that is, that the state should deliver its part of the social contract. Unfortunately, there are major shortcomings in this area. Today, we have a process of community building that is even more complicated by the state's activities. I have produced a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, or actually two reports. One is about Sweden in relation to our Nordic neighbours. We can say that Sweden is the most expensive in the Nordic countries and has the longest processing times. I would like to read a quote from 17 July 2018. The title is:中 Let municipalities be given responsibility for the construction process. Then Sweden's municipalities today suffer from a process of housing construction that delays, increases and complicates construction. The government must therefore release more municipalities that want to and can start their own surveying. ..................................................... Who thought so on 17 July 2018, Madam President? Yes, it was Lena Micko, who was then Chairman of the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and who is now Minister of State with the Minister of Housing. What has happened since 2018? Yes, we have had longer processing times during the three years 2019, 2020 and 2021. I suppose Lena Micko, if she were to write a corresponding article today, Madam President, would collapse even further. Why, then, is this issue so important? Well, because the state doesn't deliver on its community contract. This means that we prevent housing development and business activities in Sweden, and it becomes a major concern for growing municipalities. I have produced a report from the parliamentary investigation service that compares how the state and municipal surveyors deliver. Consider some examples. Gävle: 17 weeks, municipal, and Falun: 34 weeks, state. It takes more than twice as long in Falun as it takes in Gävle. Then we have Skövde: 11 weeks, Umeå: 16 weeks, Sundsvall: 11 weeks, Hässleholm: 24 weeks and Västerås: 27 weeks. If we look at comparable municipalities where the state is responsible, we see Eskilstuna: 41 weeks, Malung and Sälen: 60 weeks, Luleå: 23 weeks, Härnösand: 46 weeks and, as I said, Falun: 34 weeks. So it takes twice as long for the state to deliver in Falun as it takes in Gävle, where we have KLM. In Västerås, which has KLM, it takes 27 weeks, compared to Eskilstuna, where the state delivers in 41 weeks. This is directly devastating for the development of society. That, of course, is why the municipalities in desperation have said that they want to take responsibility – because the state does not deliver. That's why Lena Micko wrote the debate article. You can tell the municipalities as the Government does in the answer, that they should submit an application so it is processed. The problem, Madam President, is that almost all municipalities that submit an application are rejected. That's why I've set the interpellation. I want to know what the Government intends to do to make it easier for municipalities to form their own municipal surveying authorities. Is there any initiative from the Government and the Government to get the help that Lena Micko called for in 2018?
i-701331436ae0b94d-505	Madam President, I would like Long processing times in service operations are a problem for society as a whole – we are very much in agreement on that. This is a problem which the honourable Member himself has raised in the past and which we have already debated on a number of occasions in this House, despite my short time in the role. The lack of competence when it comes to surveyors in Sweden is also a problem that is closely linked to the problem of processing times. There the government has made money to create more training places, but it takes some time for more people to be trained. Statskontoret has pointed out that the shared responsibility for the operations has contributed to a lock-in of human resources and ultimately contributed to the long processing times. It is far from obvious that more municipal surveying authorities themselves solve the problem of long processing times when there are not enough surveyors. There can of course be many municipalities where it is both good and effective to set up municipal surveying authorities. We have a long line of very talented municipal surveying authorities in Sweden. The shared head office allows municipal surveying authorities to participate in the planning and construction process, which many feel increases the quality of municipalities' detailed plans. This is very good in essence. The important thing is to be able to determine when and where the establishment of a municipal surveying authority is appropriate, and that process is solid. In the handling of an application, the Government takes into account a single file containing, among other things, the municipality's application and Lantmäteriet's opinion. Thereafter, decisions are made based on the requirements of the Municipal Land Surveying Authority Act. Basically, these requirements are in place to ensure that the municipalities have the ability and capacity to take over responsibility from the state for the building development activities – that they manage to have sufficient competence in their activities. It is a good thing that we have the requirements, because building needs to be uniform and efficient and therefore also legally secure for anyone who needs to use these services.
i-701331436ae0b94d-510	Madam President, I would like That's right, as the government says. We Moderates have a strong commitment to get the state to deliver on its social contract. If, week after week, we can see that there are no government initiatives and that nothing is happening, but we are just letting it roll as usual, we will have to stand many times here and debate. I believe that the Government can prepare for and book a number of interpellation debates in its calendar, not for us to discuss here, but because it is the tool that Members of Parliament have. One of the tools is to call the Government here so that the Government has an opportunity to explain to the Swedish people what you are going to do or if you share a problem picture. It does not help that the Government thinks it is a problem that it does not work. It does not help the inhabitants of Ljusdal, who want to cut up plots in order to build there. It does not help the Falun entrepreneurs, who cannot expand their business quickly enough because it takes so long to do such a simple thing as building. It doesn't help the farm in Storvik, where you have to make a generational change. Gefle Dagblad and Arbetarbladet had big reports about the LRF member who went out and said that it is absolutely unbelievable that their generational shift is delayed by the state's inability to deliver. That is the problem. It was just as Minister Lena Micko wrote in the debate article on 17 July 2018, and it has become worse since then. It was better in 2018 than it is today. What you want is a minister who has no preconceived ideas, who can come up with brand new eyes, who is passionate about the mission to develop so that we can speed up housing construction in Sweden and who may not defend the order that exists but can offer Lena Micko a digital cup of coffee and ask her to develop what she wrote as chairman of SKL. I think it is important that the Minister listens to Sweden's municipalities, to all those municipalities that want to grow and can grow, who have entrepreneurs who want to invest, but where the state does not deliver. I think you have to do a lot of things. I do not rule out looking at Denmark, Norway and Finland, which have a completely different system of faster and cheaper processes. In parallel, however, it is to be opened up to the municipalities that say in desperation that the problem must be solved. They can't sit on their hands and wait. In the case of the municipalities that have been rejected, both the municipalities and the SKR consider that they have been refused the settlement of boliners. SKR has clearly stated that it believes that the municipalities comply with the law. But I believe that the Minister is putting his finger on one thing, namely the lock-in effect for those employed at Lantmäteriet. It may be a question of wage slippage when more municipalities are given this opportunity. However, this wage shift may mean that more people will be educated – if wage levels go up. When there is a severe shortage of a professional group, it is not unthinkable that the wage situation should change. But maybe that's what it takes for more people to choose their education. But not doing anything, sitting on your hands and thinking that today's order is good, will not solve the problems of the municipalities.
i-701331436ae0b94d-517	Madam President, I would like First, we should remind you that Lantmäteriet has undergone a major change work and shortened its processing times in five out of seven areas. This has been done when old cases have been processed, and therefore longer processing times have been given because of that work. We should also remind you that the comparison between the Nordic countries, like the study commissioned by Lars Beckman himself, points to how difficult it is to compare between countries because the data for surveying authorities in the different countries are very different. It is therefore not possible to compare it directly. The requirements of the law are essentially based on every citizen having the right to a legally secure and good process. A minimum staffing and competence in an activity is therefore required to meet this. Clarifying the requirements for a municipality to establish a surveying activity is an important task. The government, as the honourable Member points out, has previously received criticism that the demands made are not sufficiently clear in the justifications. We have also taken on board the criticism. Only a few months ago, the government acted on an application, and we took note of that criticism. We were careful to be clear on the points where we were previously perceived as unclear. The shared headship was created with the Act on Municipal Surveying Authority. In the preparatory work to the Act, it was pointed out that only because a responsibility for the building construction activities is placed on the municipality does this not mean a limitation of the overall responsibility of the state for the building formation activities. It should therefore not be expressed as delegating the State's responsibility to a municipality without the municipality's responsibility being limited to contesting the costs of the activity and enabling the authority to operate efficiently and in an organisationally appropriate form. Based on the fact that the overall responsibility for building formation activities rests with the State, it is also appropriate that there are clear requirements that should be met in order to be able to assume that responsibility. There's a problem here. Since I am a former municipal politician, I believe that many recognize the difficulty for small municipalities to build up their own activities in many different areas that are to be financed in different ways within the framework of their own operations. In order for every citizen of Sweden to be able to rely on them to have access to the same skills and assistance, there are requirements to ensure that the municipal surveying authorities can carry out the task. Having said that, we agree that the processing times need to be shorter and that we need to keep an eye on the positive developments we have seen in the state surveying authority. Developments need to continue so that decisions can be made more quickly and real estate conversions can be carried out more quickly. I look forward to closely following these issues, and I hope that in one of our soon-to-be debates, I will be able to point out that processing times have been shortened not only in five out of seven areas but in all areas. I hope that this development will last.
i-701331436ae0b94d-523	Madam President, I would like This is well spoken for the government. I do not want the Government to follow developments, but I want the Government to lead the development. These are two completely different perspectives. This is a follow John government. Madam President, I would like What does reality say? When Eskilstuna has submitted its application to form a municipal surveying authority, it is written that the investigation initiative was added in response to the state surveying authority's long delivery times and lack of local presence. Eskilstuna municipality perceives the processing times for surveying operations in recent years as long enough to constitute a significant obstacle to an effective civil engineering process in the municipality. Madam President, I would like In bureaucrats Swedish it is there a violent sawing of the state activities carried out by Lantmäteriet. Add what Lena Micko said when she was chairman of SKL. She noted that Sweden's municipalities are currently suffering from a process of housing construction that delays, increases and complicates construction. Madam President, I would like I wish we had a government and a minister who is leading the way. That is what will mean a change. So sitting on your hands and following developments will not solve the problem. What is the government's message to its party friends? There are one or other environmental parties who are involved in municipal management around Sweden, including Hudiksvall. What is the message to party friends and other people interested in society? When will municipalities be given the effective tools needed to be able to carry out reasonable community planning in their own municipality?
i-701331436ae0b94d-528	Madam President, I would like I look forward to many debates, if nothing else to enjoy Lars Beckman's very painterly writings and statements that are always as amazing to listen to. I have extensive experience of leadership from many different businesses and through many change work. When you have made a change, you follow the development because you want to see if what you have done has had an effect. This is what we do with Lantmäteriet. There have been a long series of changes, and now we are following them to see if they are effective. So far, we have seen that they have had a major impact in five out of seven areas. We now hope to see the same effect in the last two. If you do not see the change you want, you take action. But you do not run and change directly again until you know if what you have done has had an effect, and that is fundamental in all leadership. As Minister with responsibility for these issues, I am keen that Sweden has a real estate development business that works equally around the country. The lack of competence in terms of surveyors, especially experienced surveyors, is evident for the whole of society, and the processing times in the business are too long. Now we are well on the way to reducing processing times in the execution activities to more reasonable levels. The government and Lantmäteriet are working hard on this. I am convinced that all hard-working surveyors, administrators and officials around the country will continue to be successful in reducing processing times. There is, however, no obvious indication that building formation is becoming more uniform or efficient by relaxed requirements for the establishment of municipal surveying authorities and thus a weaker competence. It is not, of course, easy for a municipality to set up a municipal surveying authority. That is why we will, instead, be following very closely the procedures of the State Land Surveying Authority, and we will certainly have the opportunity to debate these issues on more occasions.
i-701331436ae0b94d-534	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me whether I intend to move towards more trade or continue to support traditional aid policy. He has also asked me whether there is a reason to move the position within the aid, whether I intend to take steps to make Swedish aid more conditional and how I and the government will promote the implementation of the UN's Agenda 2030 by working towards global growth. I can proudly say that Sweden has innovative development cooperation. We are good at thinking new about the many development challenges globally. The latest OECD-D ac evaluation of Swedish development cooperation showed that Sweden is at the forefront and that we have been working for a long time to strengthen innovation in development cooperation. Swedish aid does not seem to be isolated from other areas of society. Combating poverty and foreclosure, countering conflicts and promoting a more equal society are prerequisites for democracy and economic development. Without functioning, equal and sustainable states, companies cannot operate. An example of innovative thinking is an approach we have been working on since 2016. We call it a broader relationship, and the purpose of the approach is to capture synergies between our development cooperation, export promotion and trade policy. This will allow us to build broader economic relations between us and our partner countries, which also go beyond aid. The method of working links the Swedish resource base with the development cooperation and thus gives the Swedish business community the opportunity to contribute to global development – without preconditioning or tying our aid. Through our development cooperation, we are also working in several ways for free, fair and rule-based trade and for developing countries' participation in international trade to increase. Sweden contributes, among other things, to Aid for Trade to provide support for developing countries to participate in international trade, and we also provide support for exporters in developing countries to export to Sweden and the EU through the National Contact Point Open Trade Gate Sweden. The government has also strengthened Swedfund's role in development cooperation. Swedfund is a state-of-the-art company that invests in long-term sustainable private companies in low and middle income countries, which helps create jobs there. Another tool that I would like to highlight is Sida's guarantee instrument, which mobilizes private capital and thus increases resources for economic growth and sustainable development. Sida had at the turn of the year a guarantee portfolio of nearly SEK 9 billion which in itself mobilizes financing of almost SEK 24 billion. As regards the question of conditional aid, I would like to remind you that the goal of Swedish development cooperation is to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. But development cooperation is not without conditions. Sweden stands up clearly for democracy and human rights and consistently upholds aid policy principles. The Government considers that a general condition linked to the issue of readmission would not be an appropriate method but could rather be counterproductive. In line with conclusions adopted by the EU, which mainly apply the more for more principle, and with the principles of effective development cooperation, assistance can be used as a basis for raising awareness of the importance of effective readmission cooperation in third countries. To conclude, I would like to point out that, in order to maintain a humane, legally secure and sustainable asylum policy, those who, after a legal review for their asylum reasons, have received a refusal decision must return as quickly as possible. The government will continue to work on return issues, including through dialogue with beneficiary countries and continued support for return work at EU level. It's a work led by the Justice Department.
i-701331436ae0b94d-543	Madam President, I would like Let me first welcome Sweden's new Minister for Development Per Olsson Fridh! This is the first interpellation debate by the Minister for Development, and I am particularly pleased that the first to meet him is Magdalena Schröder and signed by the Moderates. As I have come to understand the development and development policy debate in Sweden today, Madam President, the two parties that are most involved in these issues are the Green Party and the Moderates. It's not that we feel the same, but we have a commitment. We may differ in terms of methods and in terms of the description of reality, but there is a shared commitment to the world as a whole. That is why I would very much like to welcome Per Olsson Fridh warmly and sincerely. As former Secretary of State, he also knows the questions. Moreover, it is usually the state secretaries who decide in a department, so it guarantees the depth of knowledge of the new minister. Madam President, I would like My final question in the interpellation was how the government will promote the implementation of the UN's 2030 Agenda by working towards global growth. The only time that the Government uses the floor is when he repeats my question, Madam President. Otherwise, the answer does not mention the word once. Sometimes people talk about opponents of growth, but at least they relate to the word. In this case, the concept of growth is made invisible – and that, Madam President, is quite telling. It reveals a difference between the Moderates and the Green Party, I would argue. If we are to realise Agenda 2030 on lifting the world, solving a number of problems, managing a number of targets and more than 160 milestones, it has been noted that we need to increase growth in a number of countries – in the poorest countries and in the developing countries. There has even been an annual increase of 6 to 7%. It is therefore interesting that the Government does not explain how Sweden works to increase growth globally. Madam President, I would like When it comes to development policy, the 2030 Agenda usually talks about domestic resource mobilisation. This usually means trying to find ways to get more money through tax, VAT and other collection so that you can build schools and health care – lift the communities. But it's based on several things. On the one hand, there needs to be a functioning tax system and, on the other hand, there needs to be confidence from citizens that their own state delivers. Moreover, there needs to be something to tax, and that is what growth brings. That is why, Madam President, it is a key point in how the conditions for growth are organised. Then we moderates mean that it is not fundamentally the development aid it depends on. It is not by getting money but by helping self-help that countries go from dependence to growing and standing on their own feet. And there are such examples, Madam President, that the Minister for Development could have mentioned. India is one such example: for many decades it was a typical beneficiary, but now it has moved towards its own growth – towards producing, towards contributing. I shall leave the speaker's seat and give the Minister the opportunity to reflect on what I have said. It would be very rewarding, Madam President, to hear how the Minister for Development views growth.
i-701331436ae0b94d-551	Madam President, I would like As this is also my first debate with the Government, of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Per Olsson on this important task and welcome him to Parliament's Chamber. The heading of the interpellation is the future of aid. The Government mentioned working relationships, which are aimed at building broader economic relations beyond aid. Beyond aid, Madam President, it is extremely central. Development aid should help self-help, and if it helps self-help, it also means that it will one day have to end. No one is naive and believes that the need for aid, especially the need for emergency humanitarian aid, will end tomorrow. But the long-term goal must be that aid should be just aid for self-help and lead to results. If you have a resultant aid, the result will be that one day the aid will no longer be needed. The aim must be to move from aid to trade. The fundamental question that has to be asked in this debate is whether the Government shares the view that aid, and now I am talking about development aid, should be aid for self-help and whether he shares the view that, in that case, aid, as we feel it today, must be phased out. It's not supposed to happen tomorrow, but it's long-term. It is important in principle to understand how the Minister for International Development Cooperation views this.
i-701331436ae0b94d-555	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions at once here. I'm sure that's the way it should be. I am sure there is a point from the moderate Members of Parliament here to do it that way. The concept of growth is interesting. In aid, we have a term that we often come back to, which is about economic development and also inclusive economic development. It is an economic development that is more equal, more equal and also sustainable in the long term. If we are to be really honest, most of the countries that have been among the poorest for quite some time have had very strong growth. It is not just India, as Hans Wallmark mentions. Many countries in Africa have had almost two-digit growth over several years. Yet they still have large parts of their population in poverty. Growth alone does not solve a country's poverty problems. Growth does not occur in a vacuum either. This requires the existence of sustainable, viable energy solutions, a social dialogue in which people can come to their rights and have rights in the labour market, transparency and active work against corruption, and the existence of a judicial system capable of resolving conflicts without the need to involve the military. We must also ensure that markets are made available to more people. This is what the aid is working on. It is not something that growth takes care of on its own or that the market solutions solve entirely on their own. In many countries there is currently very limited funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example. This is particularly true for female entrepreneurs to have access to bank accounts and to enter markets and for young entrepreneurs to have the opportunity to start up. Small farmers may lack credits to obtain seed and other investments. Without funding, those companies will not grow, and they will not hire. They will not contribute to more livelihoods or to reducing poverty in the way they could. Aid can contribute there by sharing that risk with these financial institutions when loans are to be taken from banks and investors in very risky environments. By sharing the risks with banks and investors, for example, aid through the Guarantee Facility enables funding for entrepreneurs to be made available. People who would otherwise find it very difficult to access markets can suddenly start up, sell their crops and become part of a functioning economy. This is an important part of the aid effort. Magdalena Schröder then wants to discuss broader relationships. It will be rather speculative if we stand here today and say that one day aid may not be needed. We live in a time of parallel, large, mutually reinforcing crises. It is a climate crisis, a species crisis, a pandemic and a rights crisis. There are 150 million people who, according to the World Bank, are being pushed out into extreme poverty only this year because of the covid-19 pandemic. I do not really have the time or the money to have a debate on: what day do you think we no longer need the aid? There's a fire out there. It is a struggle out there for fundamental rights, a climate that aggravates and the salts that penetrate the groundwater and make human life impossible in very many vulnerable and vulnerable environments. I believe, however, that we will always need global cooperation. We will need to solve challenges together with others. We will need to ensure support for those people who are most vulnerable, the most poor, who are in danger of having their daily lives and their future driven by the strengthening of climate degradation or the start and end of armed conflict. They will always need support under different premises than pure growth or clean market power can deliver. There, aid will play a role. I also hope that one day in the future we will be able to resolve it differently. But I don't want to speculate on such a date right now.
i-701331436ae0b94d-566	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Development is absolutely right that there is an idea on the part of the Moderates to ask many different questions. We are deeply curious about where the Minister stands on a number of issues. That is why we are offering this opportunity with the various interpellations to have some form of aid policy line marking. We come in peace, Madam President. I would like to pick up on some of the things the Minister mentions. First of all, Agenda 2030 points to the need for the most poor and needy of developing countries of approximately an annual growth rate of 6 to 7%. Does the Minister share that assessment? In that case, we must start discussing precisely the conditions for creating growth. Research shows that economic growth is to a very small extent the merit of aid. Instead, it creates the development of ever wider economies where the role of agriculture is shrinking and other sectors of society are growing. 90% of jobs are created in the private sector, 80% of them in small and medium-sized enterprises. Measures to promote economic growth, international trade and the improvement of the business environment are crucial in order to achieve the ultimate objective of aid policy: to eradicate poverty and oppression. Madam President, I would like I think the Minister for Development was partly involved in this. It is precisely about such simple things as seeds. It can be about microloans and creating conditions. I believe that many have a shared view of this. The interesting question is, and that is what the Moderates wonder about the aid policy line: how do you see the end goal? Is it that you should be able to get help for self-help, that you should be able to stand on your own legs and get your own power? Or is it an aid that lasts for a very long time? What the Moderates are offering is an aid policy in which we want countries to be helped to help themselves so that they can stand on their own feet and achieve their own growth. No one claims that this is simple. No one is saying that this will happen tomorrow. But we claim and claim that there must be such long-term objectives for aid policy. Then my question, Madam President, is whether or not the government shares that view. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Development then mentions this several times with guarantees and highlights it as a good example. The guarantee instrument relates to the provision of 9 billion in aid and 24 billion from private financiers. That is an excellent example. Madam President, I would like At the same time, the Riksdag now has to consider a national audit report. It will be debated in a few weeks' time in this House. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that there is a problem within Sida. Payment targets are preferred to this type of guarantee instrument. It is written in the Swedish National Audit Office's own report. It is also the criticism that we have on the part of the Moderates. We would like to see longer aid frameworks. We are talking about four-year frameworks. For our part, we want to move away from the payment target that the government has of 1% of GDP. We want to see the result, not a payout target.
i-701331436ae0b94d-575	Madam President, I would like I do not demand a date when aid will no longer be needed. My question was about the long-term objective. Although the answer came somewhat reluctantly, it nevertheless came, which is, after all, a very important message if I interpreted it correctly, that the Government shares the view that the long-term objective must be that development aid, as we feel it today, must one day end. It was an important message that the Government shared the long-term goal that development aid should be just help for self-help. It is important that the ministers share that picture. It was for me – if I understood it correctly – a new message given the life that it was when the Moderates said that long-term development aid as we know it today must be marked by a zero vision. I repeat: a vision. It is not a question of automatically ending aid for a certain period of time, but a vision that development aid should not last forever. What initiatives will the Government take to ensure that the entire Swedish aid will work towards a long-term phase-out and more towards trade?
i-701331436ae0b94d-578	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I do not think that the Moderates should take the honour of being the first out with a vision of a world free from poverty and oppression without the risk of pandemics and where climate change no longer poses a threat to human life on this planet. It's a vision and a dream that I have too. That's who I work for, and that's what the aid is working to create. If that is what Magdalena Schröder thinks is her and the Moderates' vision that someday, the day the world is free from poverty and oppression, perhaps the aid is not needed – then we agree. But to now lay a plan to phase out Swedish aid is not compatible with that vision or dream. Nor is what the Moderates offer a new aid policy principle and result-oriented aid. What the Moderates are offering is a sharp cut in Swedish aid, with a strong focus on humanitarian aid and not on the long-term efforts to combat poverty that also contribute to private capital entering, investment and growth. When you want to cut aid from 1% to 0.7% and at the same time increase humanitarian aid, only half of the long-term development cooperation and support remains – what finances democratic movements around the world, what finances and ensures that women can have access to safe abortions and what enables us to counter climate change and reduce the vulnerability of the very poorest when the floods or drought strikes. This is the moderate offer. In fact, the Swedish National Audit Office is not at all particularly critical of Sida's guarantee instruments but, on the contrary, notes that it works very well. This government has also chosen to increase the guarantee framework in each budget. Figures from 2019 show that the 220 million spent has mobilised 16.7 billion in investments that have benefited poor people. It is a fantastic development, and it is a modern and innovative development cooperation. That's what the Green Party stands for. In the case of 6% to 7% growth, I have no reason to question this claim. But it must not be a growth based on continued fossil dependence. It must not be an economy based on continued extraction of fossil resources from the planet. It needs to be growth based on renewable energy. It must also not be growth that increases the gaps in the way that has happened in the last three decades. When we have been successful in lifting people out of poverty, we have also increased the gaps in and between countries to levels we have never seen before. That is not the growth we need to look forward to. We need to see inclusive economic development, based on renewable energy, reducing the gaps between people, ensuring equal access for women and men to the labour market and the economy, and ensuring that girls and boys can succeed and have access to school and education. It should be a development where girls are not married because of economic concerns, even if the growth figures in one's country are two-digit. That kind of growth, Hans Wallmark, we work for, and that's where we want the aid to go in and do good.
i-701331436ae0b94d-587	Madam President, I would like I do not deny in any way that the Green Party and the responsible Minister of State are driven by a dream. On the contrary, Madam President, I said at the outset that I believe that there is a united commitment to poverty and oppression. On the other hand, our methods differ from one another, and perhaps also from time to time the assessments of reality. Similarly, I had to correct the Government: I did not say that anyone was fundamentally opposed to the guarantee instruments as such. On the contrary, I think they are good examples. On the other hand, the national audit report states that it is a problem that a lot of Sida's operations perceive that they have this payment target, and this can prevent resources from being allocated and resources allocated to the guarantee instruments. Madam President, I would like I also find it incredibly gratifying that the Minister mentions growth. Then it can be defined in different ways and with some different basic conditions. That is also one of the reasons why we have invited this type of debate to see where the differences are. I share much of what the Minister mentions. At the same time, however, it is fundamental, whether we use wind power or nuclear power, that if we are to lift people out of poverty and oppression – especially the absolutely poorest – it requires this kind of growth rate. That's why you have to think about how to create the conditions for it. Madam President, I would like I want to give the Government the right: it can be about something as seemingly simple as seed or micro-loans. But it can also be about something as difficult and complicated as a country like Sweden helping other countries to enter WTO processes and trade processes. The Government itself mentioned this as providing access to markets. That is why, Madam President, I come in peace. Let's see what we can discuss even though we have different opinions about some things. But how do we create the conditions for a world in which we fight poverty and combat oppression? I and the Moderates believe that growth is one of the keys to this.
i-701331436ae0b94d-593	Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to put Mr Wallmark right in the fact that it is clear that trade is a hugely important tool for this sustainable economic development. It is then of course pleased Hans Wallmark to know that in Swedish aid we also support vulnerable and poor countries in their accession work to the WTO and in their efforts to negotiate trade agreements. We support and support the EU countries' trade policies in order for the EU to take into account the needs and interests of developing countries. We are a strong voice in the multilateral system within the WTO against protectionism, which is hitting the export opportunities of developing countries in particular. Trade is an extremely important instrument in the fight against poverty, as well as investment. But again, we need to think about: what is required for investments to come into place? I recently made a trip to Bangladesh, and before the trip I met Swedish business interests that are on site with production in Bangladesh. I asked them: what are the two contributions you want to give me when I meet government representatives in Bangladesh for what it takes for your investments to continue to increase in this country? They replied: Give us clean energy, and give us increased social dialogue so that we know that our products are green and fair! Then we will be able to increase our investments. These are areas where aid can definitely help and where we can contribute to the conditions for this sustainable growth, the conditions for people to be involved in the economy and the conditions for countries to rise out of poverty and access global markets in a fair and sustainable way. Finally, I am pleased that you have invited us to the debate today. I am pleased that we are having these discussions. Thank you for your kind words and shared commitment to the world as a whole! That is a good starting point for discussions. I believe that when we understand each other better and know about interests and entrances we will also come further in understanding why the world is important to Sweden and why Sweden is important to the world.
i-701331436ae0b94d-600	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder has asked me what initiatives I will take to strengthen the effectiveness of Swedish aid and strengthen cooperation between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. 80% of humanitarian needs are created by and out of conflict. The government is actively working for more and better coordinated funding to prevent conflict and to build sustainable peace. Long-term development cooperation is a prerequisite for us to see reduced humanitarian needs in the future. The Government is continuously working to ensure that the aid can contribute in the best way to Swedish development policy goals of creating the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression as well as to meeting the goals of Agenda 2030. An important part of this work is to safeguard the internationally agreed principles for effective development cooperation: ownership, focus on results, inclusive partnership, transparency and shared responsibility. In order for Swedish development cooperation to continue to be in the front line, we should be sensitive to what is working or not, and we should be flexible in our support forms to adapt the cooperation to the different contexts we operate in. The principles of effective development cooperation are guiding the Government and Sida, which has a clear mission to report results. At the same time, they need to be seen in the light of today's challenges, and short-term results can be difficult to measure. Sweden is a driving force internationally to better define and measure the effectiveness of aid, including within OECD-Dac and in the Global Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation. The government is working to strengthen the link between humanitarian aid and development cooperation, but also the link to peace building – triplenexus. This is necessary because today's humanitarian crises are often complex, long-term and cross-border. The Covid-19 pandemic has further highlighted the need to strengthen this link. Integrated working methods are needed for better use of resources, collaboration and innovation in the overall Swedish commitment. I also agree with Magdalena Schröder's emphasis on results. Through increased interaction and synergies between humanitarian aid, development cooperation and peace building, we can adapt our efforts, reach the most vulnerable in the most difficult development contexts, help reduce humanitarian needs and address the root causes of crisis and conflict. In order to make this possible, Sida has, for example, strengthened foreign authorities in Africa with five posts that work specifically with nexus issues, and three more are under recruitment. In addition, there are two nexus services for Asia and the Middle East and one for the implementation of the forthcoming new regional Latin America strategy. In the multilateral work, Sweden is the driving force for the UN, the World Bank and the EU to work together in the best possible way, not least in conflict-affected countries. The Government is committed to the use of joint conflict analysis and to the interlinking and complementarity of efforts throughout the conflict cycle. Finally, I would like to welcome the fact that Magdalena Schröder highlights the government's work with Yemen, where the difficult conflict has caused just such a deep, prolonged crisis where humanitarian, development cooperation and peace-building must work together. The UN estimates that even if the conflict ends next year, Yemen's development will have been pushed back 26 years of the war, with enormous challenges for a sustainable peace. Therefore, Sweden contributes both with emergency humanitarian aid, strengthened long-term development cooperation and active diplomatic efforts to end the conflict.
i-701331436ae0b94d-608	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although I thought it left some to be desired. In connection with almost all the meetings I have had with representatives of civil society actors in the field of aid and with representatives of Sida, the question of how development aid and humanitarian emergency aid can better interact has been raised. Everyone seems to agree that the drain pipes that exist between humanitarian emergency aid and long-term development aid prevent Swedish aid from being more effective. Madam President, I would like I am quite sure that the Government is also encountering this discussion in many of its meetings. I hope and would, of course, like to believe that the Government has the ambition to make aid more effective. For too long, the general debate has focused on how much money Sweden spends on aid and to far too little on what results the aid leads to or what is to be achieved through the aid. As far as the interaction between humanitarian aid and development aid is concerned, it is fundamentally a matter of putting results into focus and ultimately ensuring that our resources are used optimally. It is not always short-term emergency aid or long-term development aid that is needed without both or perhaps something in between. The global refugee crisis is an example of a situation in which the two forms of aid need to be more closely coordinated. Humanitarian aid, or emergency aid as it is also called, is at the heart of this aid. It is clean water, food and supplies for people in disaster. Development aid, on the other hand, is more long-term aid. This could involve helping countries to build functioning institutions, education systems or health systems. Development aid is the type of aid to help self-help; humanitarian aid is the aid aimed at preventing death and alleviating emergency situations. Humanitarian aid – although that is what I think most people think about when they think a lot – is a very small part of all aid. The vast majority of all aid is long-term development aid. In the light of the increasing and constantly underfunded humanitarian needs, there is reason to further strengthen Sweden's humanitarian aid, but also, of course, to gather together for reforms that increase efficiency. I do not doubt the genuine commitment of the Government to this issue, Madam President, but unfortunately, as I said, his response leaves some to be desired. Instead of mentioning concrete examples of how the aid can be more effective in front of the Government's rather sweeping responses, such as the Government's efforts to strengthen the link, and the need for an integrated approach. As has been said, in terms of interaction between these forms of aid, it is fundamentally a matter of putting results in focus. The need for better cooperation is in principle shared by everyone, and the government says that this is a priority. So against this background, I would like to ask the Government what concrete measures it intends to take to give Sida better conditions for cooperation between humanitarian aid and development aid.
i-701331436ae0b94d-616	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my first answer, we have given Sida the opportunity to strengthen its staff in the field with experts on the collaboration between long-term development cooperation and humanitarian support. This is a very concrete answer, I think, to Magdalena Schröder's question about what the government is doing to create the conditions for Sida to develop this work. We also have extensive discussions with both Sida and the Folke Bernadotte Academy on how Sweden can contribute internationally to promote this particular type of synergy. We are driving the OECD, with UN funds and programmes and with the World Bank to make them better in the very environments where this collaboration and synergy is the most important. The World Bank recently adopted a new strategy for how to work in the fragile states in the most difficult conflict environments, a strategy that Sweden has been driving and supporting. We were also pleased that it was negotiated in Stockholm when we finished with the new World Bank Fund for the poorest countries. Madam President, I would like It should be remembered that humanitarian activities must respect the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. Long-term development cooperation shall contribute by combating poverty and promoting a more democratic country. These are different principles, and this also means that there are different actors with different roles. But this should not, of course, prevent us from cooperating better, even if we have to respect the specific nature of the different forms. ODA criteria shall be respected; of course, peacekeeping forces shall have their specific mandates. But we must learn to cooperate and cooperate more closely. Sweden is a forerunner in these contexts, as OECD-Dac's review of 2019 shows. For example, our flexible and long-term core support to UN funds and programmes has increased the focus on resilience and on conflict perspectives in development cooperation. These are some of the things that are highlighted. Around two thirds of the most vulnerable people in the world live in these failing situations in conflict countries. It is clear that we need to make high demands, precisely in those contexts, that our various tools work together and that we can achieve goals. I agree: that is how aid will be effective. That's how we can get the best results. A conflict is not always caused only by the direct armed conflict, but also by a lack of development. So we can't just work with one or the other. Magdalena Schröder is absolutely right: we need both. In Yemen, for example, we must use the humanitarian mandate to be allowed to come in with long-term development efforts as well. These long-term development efforts are crucial to phasing out humanitarian aid on these issues one day. Sweden has made several such efforts. In the new strategy for the Democratic Republic of Congo, we have greatly increased long-term aid in order to find better synergies with the already large amount of humanitarian aid there on the ground. We are very aware of these synergies. We work actively with them, and in international forums Sweden is the driving force and leader for the world to better gather around the nexus issues.
i-5Qz4Cv9Fq9KPq5tpW6kkxF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Olsson, for your answer. Of the billions we spend on aid, ten new administrators are, admittedly, an important but very small measure in this context. I asked the question about what measures the government will take to give Sida better opportunities to interact between humanitarian aid and development aid, as the Swedish National Audit Office has noted in a review that there are shortcomings in the conditions that the government has given Sida regarding the interaction between humanitarian aid and development aid. Among other things, the Government has not developed common objectives for the two forms of aid at the strategic level. The lack of common objectives contributes to maintaining the division between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. For a greater impact on cooperation between the forms of aid, the Swedish National Audit Office highlighted a number of recommendations on measures. This involved, among other things, common objectives at the level of the strategy. It was also about ensuring that the technical possibilities available for co-financing and co-reporting operations can be used in the activities. Although the Government says it wants to prioritise better collaboration between the forms of aid, the Government chose not to take into account any of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. In the letter submitted by the Government to the Riksdag in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review, the Government wrote that co-financing and joint programming were deliberately excluded as it would risk adversely affecting respect for the humanitarian principles. Madam President, I would like In this context, it may be worth noting that inefficient coordination and the drain pipe model currently in place in the field of aid are at risk of adversely affecting the results of aid. Therefore, my questions to the Government are: Is the government prepared to reconsider this? Is the government prepared to make changes to bring about more effective aid? Will the government develop common policy objectives? Will the government ensure that it is possible to co-finance and co-report efforts in both humanitarian aid and development cooperation?
i-701331436ae0b94d-630	Madam President, I would like We are doing exactly what Magdalena Schröder is asking for. I think you should be careful and look at what period of time it is that the Swedish National Audit Office has looked at during the review that has been done. It is, of course, some time back that this review applies, although it was quite recently presented. It is not last year, or last year, or even last parliamentary term, that they have looked at when they have drawn up their recommendations. The fact that the Government's letter does not go to the Swedish Audit Office precisely with regard to these recommendations is because we believe that we are already working in the way that the Swedish Audit Office recommends that we do – of course with continued respect for the specific nature of each instrument and the principles of the respective instruments, and I hope that we in this House agree on the importance of respecting these, i.e. the humanitarian principles and the principle of impartiality in the field of humanitarian aid. Sweden is at the forefront here, and there is perhaps no real reason to continue to develop exactly the measures that have been taken in recent years. Here are the nexus and resilience questions. They come into our bilateral strategies. We have strengthened staff capacity, and I have a feeling that Magdalena Schröder, just as I think ten new posts are still quite good. After all, we want aid to be used effectively and, first and foremost, to end up with the most poor and vulnerable before we allow it to end up in our own bureaucracy, although it is extremely important for us to know that we are doing the right things in the right way. No, humanitarian aid is not such a small part of it either, but I also think it is important that we consider how much of it we think humanitarian aid should be. With humanitarian aid alone, we do not solve the root causes of conflict, hunger or the fact that girls and women do not have access to sexual and reproductive health and rights, whether they live in a conflict environment or not. We know that there can be no running notes on climate change, on wars and conflicts or on a reduction in democratic space. These are things that cost, and they will cost. The parallel, mutually reinforcing crises that the world has will cost the world. We can either choose to invest in them in the long term and here and now try to do what we can to counter conflicts and promote peace and freedom, or we will have to take the cost when the conflict and disaster are a fact. It'll be a lot more expensive. This rescheduling of aid, which the Moderates also want to do, where we are cutting back on long-term development cooperation and increasing humanitarian aid, will be cost-driven, because humanitarian aid is not effective aid. It relieves distress and saves lives here and now, but it doesn't build a better world in the long run. Humanitarian aid is based entirely on one-year appeals, but in long-term development cooperation we can pursue multi-annual commitments and partnerships where we step by step create the conditions for people to emerge from poverty and oppression. We must continue to do so, and we must have high ambitions. The world is in crisis, and it's not time to back off. It is time to step forward and be committed to a better world through long-term development cooperation and through humanitarian aid. I give Magdalena Schröder quite right that we will succeed in the most difficult contexts in which the poorest people live, it is precisely through the interaction and synergies between the long-term and the humanitarian – and gladly connect to the peace building there. If we succeed better in this, we will also succeed better in the development of the world.
i-701331436ae0b94d-638	Madam President, I would like As I said, I do not doubt the commitment of the Government, but I regret to say that the Government does not seem to think that lack of coordination, as the National Audit Office actually states, is such a major problem that new proposals have to be presented. As Minister for International Development Cooperation, Per Olsson Fridh in the Government is responsible for one of the largest spending areas of the state budget and a budget for aid that is extremely large internationally. The government's budget prioritises spending almost twice as much money on international aid as on the police. In 20 years, Sweden's aid budget has tripled. In 2019 Sweden spent almost three times as much on aid as the average in the Dac countries. Looking at the average annual contribution to the UN system in 2015– 2017, Swedish taxpayers were the fifth largest donor in the world. Of course, each country chooses its own priorities, but it is interesting to compare us with others. For example, Sweden spends more money on aid than Canada, despite the fact that Canada is a three times as big an economy as Sweden. The Moderates have a different priority and want to reduce aid, but, Madam President, this is not a budget debate but a debate aimed at highlighting proposals that can make aid more effective. The conditions do not always look like the rules that exist in different systems to call an operation for humanitarian aid or not. Cooperation, common strategies, common objectives and co-budgeting for the two forms of aid are not just about making aid more effective. It is also ultimately a question of public confidence in aid.
i-701331436ae0b94d-643	Madam President, I would like I have tried to explain in my previous answers that since the Swedish National Audit Office's audit, since the period for which the Swedish National Audit Office examined the synergies between long-term and humanitarian aid, the Government has taken several measures. We had done this before the Swedish National Audit Office presented its review. Presenting the same measures one more time is not very effective. Since the period under review by the Swedish National Audit Office, we have increased our staff capacity and our expertise in the issues of nexus. We have entered precisely that kind of synergy into several of our bilateral aid strategies. We have also been on the UN funds and programmes and the World Bank to develop policies, knowledge and expertise in working in the very environments where these synergies need to increase. The government has thus delivered on the shortcomings that existed a long time before, perhaps even during the time the Moderates were responsible for the aid in the Swedish government. It is gratifying to hear clearly from Magdalena Schröder that Moderates' ambition is to reduce Swedish aid. They want to reduce the volume of Swedish aid. But reduced volumes are not the same as efficiency, Magdalena Schröder. This is not the same as aid effectiveness. In addition, as the Moderates want, to govern aid with non-aid policy principles, such as the readmission of asylum seekers who are rejected here in Sweden, is also not effective in development policy. It does not reduce poverty or oppression anywhere in the world. I am pleased with these interpellations, for the opportunity to debate aid and for the mutual understanding of Sweden's role in the world and global engagement. But I don't think that right now is the time to back off. Now is the time to step forward. Now we should be proud of our 1% target, proud of our aid, proud of the role we play in the UN, in the World Bank and in multilateral fora to drive development, peace and freedom.
i-701331436ae0b94d-647	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder has asked me what initiatives I will take to strengthen the fight against corruption in aid. Magdalena Schröder has previously asked similar questions to my predecessor Peter Eriksson who has explained how the anti-corruption work has been strengthened. Sweden operates in the most difficult environments where aid is most needed, but where corruption is often widespread. Anti-corruption is a high priority for the government, and a large number of activities are being carried out. The government has so far worked extensively to address corruption both as a development barrier and as a risk. The Government has strengthened Sida's work through the goal of reducing corruption in the strategies for international development cooperation. The majority of the recently adopted strategies include anti-corruption targets, a work that will be pursued in the future. Thanks to an increased administrative grant, Sida has also increased the number of controllers in the business, both in the field and here at home in Stockholm, and recruited more employees with anti-corruption as a speciality. The government has also strengthened the link between democracy and anti-corruption. Sida's mission on democracy in 2020 included strengthening anti-corruption efforts. The wording on anti-corruption in the strategy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law was also strengthened. In addition to this, altikorruption is a priority during the democratic effort, the aim of which is to promote the emergence of effective and independent institutions, including the absence of corruption. The government also continues to work against corruption and irregularities towards multilateral organisations. Finally, I would like to emphasise that it is crucial to work against corruption so that the most vulnerable and vulnerable people can leave poverty and oppression.
i-701331436ae0b94d-651	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to this interpellation is the extremely negative impact of corruption on development and people's prosperity. The government rarely shows interest in thinking new in development policy, but in one area the government has nevertheless made a welcome position transfer. This applies to how Sweden and Swedish aid should relate to those countries where democratic development is going in the wrong direction. Madam President, I would like I now quote directly from the government's budget for aid: in the light of the negative democratic developments in many countries, the government is looking at how increased demands can be made on the countries receiving Swedish aid to comply with the principles of the rule of law and human rights. As a starting point, support for the state should be reduced in the event of negative developments in human rights and democracy. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is important that Swedish aid comes with requirements and that Sweden clearly signals that it will end or change the aid if the requirements are not met. When a country develops in the wrong direction in terms of democracy and human rights, Swedish aid cannot continue as if nothing has happened. Madam President, I would like What the government describes in its budget, which I just quoted, is sometimes called the more-for-more or less-for-less principle. The fact that the government has announced that it should work according to that principle is welcome. The Government is happy to respond to how the work is progressing in re-setting the aid in line with this new direction. Of course, it is good, although it should be self-evident, that the government has a goal of reducing corruption in a so-called majority of aid strategies. However, it raises the question why targets for reducing corruption are not included in all strategies. Madam President, I would like This interpellation is not just about tax money which, due to corruption, ends up in the wrong pockets. Let me just say the obvious: when corruption means that aid money, i.e. taxpayers' money, goes wrong, it is serious enough and something that the government must take very seriously. The money we spend on aid should go to the right things. That's where we'll be in control. That's where we're gonna have influence. The money we spend on aid should not disappear in corruption. Since there have been so many corruption scandals, it shows that control has not been sufficient. That is, of course, not acceptable, and the government is ultimately responsible. But this interpellation is mainly about the extremely negative impact of corruption on development and prosperity. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government whether he sees the importance of the same principle as applies to the development of democracy and human rights, i.e. the more-for-more or less-for-less principle, also applying to the degree of corruption in a country. If corruption does not decrease, Swedish aid will decrease. Madam President, I would like This would mean that Sweden takes seriously the extremely negative impact of corruption.
i-701331436ae0b94d-661	Madam President, I would like I am very encouraged by the debate that I have heard between Magdalena Schröder and the responsible Minister. Therefore, I am also pleased that the Moderates have presented this triptych of interpellations that fundamentally affect and deal with different aspects of Swedish aid. They've been illustrating. They show that there are differences. There is unifying commitment, but there are also differences in how we want to conduct politics. Madam President, I would like To recall what has been said earlier in the debate: the High Council of State has pointed out that the Moderates want to cut back on aid resources. But holy anger should fill a responsible minister if aid money is lost through corruption. This also means that money is taken from aid. The level in kroner can be the same. But every scrapped crown is a wasted crown of aid. With the same accusing finger that a minister can point at the Moderates and say, you want to cut the aid, you should point to any regime that does not do what they should do for the aid money. I may not think that I always notice such a commitment or criticism. It is easier to criticise a party that wants to make reforms in the field of aid than regimes that do not want to reform their countries. Madam President, I would like One example that I believe the Minister for Development will often hear in the debate is Tanzania. Accumulated – collected – over the years Swedish taxpayers have been allowed to enter at least 50 billion. There are those who claim that it has been 60 billion, but let us say 50 billion for simplicity. That, Madam President, is about two years' funding for the Swedish police. Is there anyone, including Per Olsson, who believes that all of this has been done exactly what it is supposed to do, Madam President? Or is corruption also involved in the payments of these 50 billion? That's one part. The second part, which Magdalena Schröder touches on in her excellent interpellation, is that corruption distorts structures. One difficulty in building up these countries is that the public's trust and confidence in their states are being excavated by corruption. This then creates difficulties in finding resources. The will to assist with taxes and some other things falls when you don't know you're getting anything back. In addition, you need the money to pay for medical care or school or to go to someone else because the system in the country is based on corruption. For this reason, Madam President, Magdalena Schröder's questions are so central. It is only through zero tolerance against corruption that aid can be built that works in the long term in the interests of the beneficiary countries.
i-701331436ae0b94d-668	Madam President, I would like So far, me and the interpellier are in agreement. Corruption is one of the biggest obstacles to development in the world. Poor people are most affected when they do not get the services and opportunities to which they are entitled, when society's economy is sabotaged, when money falls into the wrong pockets and when people's confidence in the system decreases. The possibilities for a positive social contract are being exhausted. The poorest countries in the world are characterised by widespread corruption. If Swedish aid is to make a difference, we must be right there, and we must work against corruption every day in everything we do. Working in difficult contexts with a lot of corruption poses a risk, but if we are to reach out to the very poorest – those who need aid most – we must take that risk. Swedish aid reaches out to the poorest. Again: According to OECD-Dac's latest evaluation of Swedish aid, our aid is one of the most effective in the world when it comes to reaching out to the most vulnerable. If I understand Magdalena Schröder correctly, she wants an aid policy principle that we should not be working with aid in environments where there is corruption. But I can inform you that we would then have no assistance for the poorest people living on this planet with us. Humanitarian aid, to which the Moderates want to increase funding, could not have at all. In those conflict environments where humanitarian aid is crucial to the survival of people, corruption is also widespread. It's also there. Increased corruption or the discovery of more cases of corruption in aid in a partner country does not necessarily mean that aid to that partner country or country will cease. On the contrary, it can mean that we need to increase support for civil society and for free and independent media so that they can detect and break the patterns of corruption in their audit role. The compilations of detected cases of corruption show that this corresponds to approximately 1 per million of the total aid. International aid works in many countries where corruption is common, and the detection and investigation of corruption cases is important and good. When we discover such cases, it means that the systems we put in place to track, detect and report work. This means that the anti-corruption work also works in its audit function. Madam President, I would like The fight against corruption is the fight against poverty. It is one of the most important efforts we can make to create transparency and to build trust between people and between people and institutions, and to build communities that stand tall, that are resilient and resilient to conflicts, oppression and climate change. Therefore, we should always have an anti-corruption work with us. The government systematically brings this into our bilateral aid strategies as well as our organisational strategies for the multilateral organisations in which we are major donors. We have it at the heart of the governance of the aid authorities. I would like to repeat: anti-corruption work is the fight against poverty. I am pleased that the Moderates are in complete agreement with the government on the importance of this. I can assure you that this is a central part of our development policy. We carry it with us in our work every day.
i-701331436ae0b94d-676	Madam President, I would like The Government failed to answer the question why corruption reduction targets are not included in all of the recently decided strategies. The background to this interpellation, as I said, is the negative impact of corruption on development and people's prosperity. World Bank and World Health Organisation figures show that there is a connection between what is called healthy life years and control of corruption. There is also a clear link between a country's growth and GDP and the level of corruption. In a presentation to the Committee on Foreign Affairs last week, figures were presented, also from the World Bank, showing that there is even a clear link between how satisfied you as a citizen are with life and the degree of corruption in the country. Sida also refers on its website to new research that shows that corruption has more serious and far-reaching consequences than previously thought. Corruption hampers economic growth and halts the development of poor countries and the fight against poverty. This, in turn, leads to a weakening of trust among citizens, to the erosion of democracy and to the risk of the negative spiral continuing downwards. I have previously asked the Swedish Parliament's investigation service to look at the corruption in aid, and that includes references to the book Corruption and Development Aid. One of the conclusions that can be drawn from the book is that in countries where corruption is high and where the government's policy is not particularly focused on poverty reduction, aid risks keeping this government under arms and allowing scope to continue a non-development policy. Aid where there is widespread corruption can thus have a negative impact on the outcome of the aid. Anti-corruption is therefore crucial for aid to be able to do what it is intended for, i.e. to contribute to development. If the Government recognizes the extremely negative impact of corruption on development, he should be prepared to allow the principle that has been announced to work towards the development of human rights and democracy to also apply to the development of the degree of corruption in the countries where Sweden provides assistance. Madam President, I would like Let me say the obvious: If we do as we have always done, it will also be as it has always been. What I am asking for in this interpellation debate is not only various aid projects whose thematic focus is to reduce corruption, but I also wonder whether the Government is prepared to use the same principle as it has announced to use for democracy and human rights.
i-701331436ae0b94d-683	Madam President, I would like While we are all considering Magdalena Schröder's important final question, I would like to underline something that the Government said, namely that combating corruption is combating poverty. That's why it's so central. This applies both to everyday corruption in a country and to the great corruption, which is radiated by regimes based on oppression and exploitation. That is why, Madam President, I can promise that during the 17-18 months remaining of this government's time, we in the Moderates will be following the government's efforts to strike down all forms of corruption and show that it does not allow it. It is ultimately a question of combating poverty and creating the conditions for countries' populations to emerge from poverty and oppression. Madam President, I would like We had a visit to the Foreign Affairs Committee some day ago by Professor Bo Rothstein from Gothenburg. He noted a few things, which I would like to remind him of – I do not think they come as a surprise to the Government, but rather he probably shares this: corruption has a strong negative impact on virtually all the dimensions we have on human welfare. A summary of human misery in the world points to corruption as one of the most important factors. Corruption undermines both human and institutional trust, that is, the social kitt that holds a society together. That's why this is so intimately connected. If you want, as the internationalists we are in Sweden, to help and assist people to leave poverty and oppression, it is crucial to do this. Therefore, our guarantee of results is promised to the government that we will follow the anti-corruption work. Once again, I would like to thank the Government for these first interpellation debates. He is from Lomma-Bjärred, Madam President. It is close to Öresund. That's why we can end with: On the basis of the view!
i-701331436ae0b94d-688	Madam President, I would like I have to say that, in line with democratic principles, I am very pleased that we have an opposition which sees as its role to examine, closely follow and hold the government to account. We have far too little of this kind of democratic principle in the world today. It is in everyone's interest to promote them and work in many parts of the world to make this particular parliamentary interaction work better. It is another part of the kitte, the trust in the social contract, that we will strive to build with the long-term development cooperation. But then we must also have the courage to invest in aid. Both Magdalena Schröder and Hans Wallmark have described what a starving social body corruption is and what a barrier to development it is, both in the large and in the small. I have agreed and described how I view corruption from my side as a development barrier. What we do not really seem to agree on is whether corruption is a reason for us to stop aid in a context or, on the contrary, perhaps even a reason to step up our efforts to increase the conditions for strengthening those groups, human organisations and the media that detect corruption and hold their powers accountable. If we are to build this parliamentary interaction, we are to build environments where opposition can be and operate without risk to their lives and where journalists can be and operate without risk to their lives, hold those in power accountable and make corruption visible, then we also need aid that is present. I hope we can agree that this is important. Support for those groups in Ukraine, Uganda, Bangladesh and Colombia is important in the long term. We are addressing democracy issues, including corruption, with the government representatives we meet when we travel on aid. It's obvious. Often, when I meet government representatives in partner countries, I find it disappointing that we are not channelling our aid through them, through their authorities and their state budgets. They are asking for more direct support. But the truth is in Swedish aid that a very small proportion of the aid goes directly to the state. We have no budget cooperation at all in this way. Instead, we channel aid support through civil society organisations and other actors where we have a better chance of obtaining transparency, scrutiny and follow-up of the support we provide. It is not always very well received. Like I said, I often face disappointment. Then my answer is quite simple: you must show that you want to work with us for openness and transparency, for greater democracy and to broaden the democratic space. You must respect human rights more and work with us to reduce corruption. Then it enables us to also work closer to you and your authorities and allow you to develop your country. However, if you do not want that, we will seek other actors who, with our financial support and with our partnership, can fight for equality, for sexual and reproductive rights, against climate change and so on – the objectives that we set in aid. Corruption is one of the greatest and strongest obstacles to development in the world. We need to use all the instruments we have to fight it. Aid is part of it. Trade is another. Investment is a third. I hope that Mr Wallmark and Magdalena Schröder agree with me that it is not just the role of aid to get in and fight corruption. Let us use all the tools we have for a world free of corruption and with increased openness and transparency!
i-701331436ae0b94d-694	Madam President, I would like The principle that the government has said it should work on in terms of human rights and the rule of law is: a reduction in aid to the state in the event of a negative development of human rights and democracy. As I said, my question is whether the Council of State is willing to work on the same principle as regards the degree of corruption. The government said that there is very little government cooperation. It's a truth with modification. One example is Tanzania. If I remember the report I read correctly, in 2019 almost 40% of the aid was sent to the country in cooperation with state actors. Sweden has development cooperation with a number of countries where corruption is widespread. For example, Sida writes this about Kenya on its website: It favours powerful groups and particularly harms those living in poverty. According to Transparency International's review of countries' corruption, Kenya is in place 124 out of 180 countries. Kenya is one of the countries where the government has decided on a new approach to aid. The new strategy is valid from 2021 to 2025 and covers 1.75 billion. That's an incredible amount of money. Working according to the principle of a lot more for more and a lot less for less and less for the level of corruption in aid would have been important, both to ensure that no taxpayer's money would risk disappearing in corruption and to show that the government takes the negative impact of corruption seriously on development. Taking seriously the negative impact of corruption on development and people's prosperity is something I think most people expect the Minister for International Development Cooperation to do.
i-701331436ae0b94d-698	Madam President, I would like Once again, Magdalena Schröder takes up the old tasks for which she has put me to account. Magdalena Schröder knows that at the beginning of 2020 we adopted a new cooperation strategy for Tanzania, with greatly reduced volumes and reduced direct support for the state, for the reason that we have not received any support or support for our principles of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and corruption in regular dialogue with the Government of Tanzania. We act in accordance with the principles we have written out in the budget. To a lesser extent, we are cooperating with those states that do not want to stand up for our democratic principles and work with human rights. We will then direct aid to other actors, non-state actors. This also means that the volume of totals usually goes down in these cooperation strategies, as civil society cannot swallow the kind of resources that government actors often can. We are pursuing this, and there are several examples of this. Another is Cambodia, where we have made a major shift in aid precisely because there is a lack of dialogue and a response to democratic principles and human rights. I believe that corruption must be seen as an issue in itself, which we must attack, attack, work with and learn more about. We need to follow it up better and work it off. But corruption and anti-corruption must also be something that permeates everything and all the work we do. I should like to take this opportunity to mention one more point. If we look at where corruption is most widespread, we see that it exists to a very large extent in fossil industry, for example. The transition of the energy sector towards renewable energy will thus also be a means of reducing corruption. We must see this as the complex issue it is. We cannot simplify it, but we must tackle it.
i-701331436ae0b94d-703	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I and the government intend to raise the issue of a common EU-wide legislation on a ban on genital mutilation, to work within the EU to ensure that those Member States that have not banned genital mutilation do so immediately, to work for the issue of genital mutilation to be raised on the agenda within the EU and the UN, and to press within the UN for a ban on genital mutilation to be introduced in all UN Member States. Genital mutilation is comparable to torture. The fact that girls are still exposed to something so despicable is totally unacceptable and must be combated at all levels, both nationally and within European and international cooperation. These are high-priority issues for the government. The full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls, particularly in terms of their sexual and reproductive health and rights, the SRHR, we are running in all the relevant fora we can. The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the Istanbul Convention, covers both preventive work and actions for girls and women exposed to genital mutilation. The EU signed the Istanbul Convention in 2017, thereby confirming the Union's commitment to combat violence against women in its territory and globally. The question of whether the EU can also accede to and ratify the Convention, which contains both issues that fall within the competence of the EU and issues that fall within the competence of the Member States, has been discussed since then. In 2016, the government's position was that the EU should accede to the Convention in support of the Riksdag. There is today a qualified majority of Member States that want the EU to accede to the Convention, and there is a small group of countries blocking this. Since April 2019, there has been a legal process initiated by the European Parliament, in which the Court of Justice of the European Union has to consider, inter alia, whether the EU can accede to the Convention even if not all Member States agree. Genital mutilation of girls and women is a serious violation that causes a great deal of suffering. The UN, the EU and other organisations and authorities regard genital mutilation of girls and women today as an expression of honour-related violence and repression and as a violation of children's and women's rights. Let me be clear: Sweden has consistently been the driving force in the negotiations on EU accession to the Convention. Among other things, Sweden, in cooperation with Germany, presented a political declaration in connection with the EU's signature of the Convention. In addition, of course, the important work to keep the implementation of the Convention alive in all countries remains. Sweden's feminist foreign policy means that the foreign administration works consistently to combat gender-based violence against women and girls and to promote SRHR, both politically and in development cooperation. The government is working to increase the impact of the Istanbul Convention also outside the EU. We are working to create international and Swedish opinion and to implement and extend as far as possible the international commitments and resources to combat genital mutilation. This summer, for example, the UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution calling on states to abolish genital mutilation, to which Sweden co-sponsored. We can welcome the fact that, through intensive work both in the EU and the UN and at our embassies in the countries concerned, we have managed to mobilise more and more countries to express support for the SRHR, including in joint speeches for the SRHR in the high-level context of the UN. Sweden is among the largest donors to UNFPA, UN Women and UNICEF, who are working on this issue globally, regionally and at country level. Sweden is also pushing for the EU to prioritise SRHR in its external relations and for EU aid to contribute to this important work. Right now, forces that want to restrict women's and girls' most fundamental rights are in the sails. This is dangerous. I will continue to fight such developments in my work every day, both within the European Union and globally.
i-701331436ae0b94d-715	Madam President, I would like I would first like to congratulate the Minister and welcome him and thank him very much for a comprehensive and important response. In fact, this was the first time I heard any minister say that genital mutilation is comparable to torture. The fact that girls – that is, children – are exposed to something so repugnant is simply unacceptable and must be combated at all levels, both internationally and within European cooperation. This is important because we know that over 4 million young girls are subjected to this brutal torture every year. We also know that there are over 200 million women and young girls who are vulnerable; this corresponds to 20 times the population of Sweden. What if this wasn't about women and girls that you're indifferent to? If it were other forms of torture, the whole world's states, and the UN and the EU, would agree to fight it. I myself feel that those who do not care about half the population and who do not take a stand for its right do not take a stand for the entire population of the world either. This is the case: we women are half the population – and more than that in many countries – but do not have the same rights. Genital mutilation is one of the worst forms of honour oppression and is found in 30 countries. In fact, right now, while listening to the minister, a doctor emailed me asking if I knew it was also in southern Iran. This means that genital mutilation exists in 31 countries. Iran is my old country; I did not know that this was there. This is going to spread out. As I said, it is in Africa and the Middle East, but it is also in some parts of Latin America. This is a major social problem and health problem daily, monthly and occasionally. The girls and women we meet here in Sweden and we hear and read about have problems when visiting the bathroom and when giving birth. This has serious consequences for these women, especially for young girls. In our own country there are 40 000 people, according to statistics that go back seven years, but there are certainly more. According to the latest statistics from UNICEF and the European Parliament, there are over 600 000 women in our Member States. It is also feared that 180 000 young girls are victims of this terrible crime and this torture. I believe that this interpellation is highly topical for us in Sweden, for us as a Member State and for us as a vote in the UN in pushing the issue of this becoming illegal. I wonder whether, in addition to what the Minister said in a good way, we will push for legislation in the Member States.
i-701331436ae0b94d-723	Madam President, I would like Sweden is pushing for the EU to join and for us to ratify this. In doing so, EU Member States should be held responsible for complying with the Convention and complying with its principles. After all, Sweden has consistently pushed for conditionality within the EU on democracy and rights issues in order for a country to be able to benefit from the great subsidies in the EU budget and pushed for the end of this form of abuse and this brutal form of violence, usually against little girls. It must also be seen as fundamental within the European Union. Sweden will of course follow this and continue to be in the forums we can and in the way that it is given the opportunity to. I would also like to point out that this is indeed a major obstacle to development in the world. For girls who are exposed to these abuses, the consequences will be less opportunities to take part in rights, move on in life, be part of an economy, be part of an education, be part of a family and participate in society on equal terms. We see increasing violence against girls and women, reducing access to other sexual rights and health, pushing away and denying young girls and women. It is frightening that, at a time when we are living in a pandemic, this kind of service and work is being pushed away. UNFPA, the UN Population Fund, which is the UN's main tool to work on SRHR issues globally, believes that up to 2 million more cases of female genital mutilation will occur due to the pandemic – cases that had otherwise been discovered and eliminated. But resources are now being redirected and space is being reduced. 2 million more girls will be subjected to these terrible abuses, because we have a world that is incapable of being sustainable enough and ensuring the equal rights of girls and women. That is, of course, unacceptable. UNICEF also believes that the resources we invest in this area would need to increase ten times if we are to reach the goal of the sustainability agenda to eradicate the incidence of female genital mutilation by 2030. It is a goal that now seems to be ever further away from us, and of course we cannot have it. The total Swedish support in aid to SRHR issues last year exceeded 3 billion. It is a provisional figure which is likely to be adjusted upwards. We decided last year to increase our support for the world's largest efforts to eradicate genital mutilation and combat gender-based violence. We will be working in 16 African countries over the next decade. It is a unique initiative that has no equivalent in terms of efforts specifically against female genital mutilation. It is a broad geographical activity where you work globally, regionally and nationally to reduce the incidence of this. And we've seen results. Perhaps the most obvious thing was that Sudan was given a new law in 2020 that prohibits genital mutilation. They haven't had that before. It is now 15 out of 16 countries that are part of this programme that have adopted this type of legislation. Over 200,000 girls have been able to seek help and escape genital mutilation in 2019. These are, of course, successes. Success is also about developing and involving men more in this work. Against the pandemic, there are vaccines, but against violence, against genital mutilation, there is no vaccine. The solution is that we build societies that don't accept this anymore and that we work with all parts of society to discover, counteract and suppress the existence of this form of abuse.
i-8Jyk6tYC6kgHFr3TbHfrN4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your words. It is gratifying that Sweden is a strong humanitarian country, and we are well known for that. Wherever you go, to Colombia or Western Sahara, you are a proud Swedish representative, and it is gratifying. But we do have to make demands on the other party. We must do so whether it be women's movements or organisations, state or non-governmental, because genital mutilation is not just any kind of oppression. As the Minister agrees with me, it is torture and human rights violations, and it should in fact be classed as crimes internationally. Several states should be reported in The Hague for crimes against half the population. There are quite a few – 200 million. And as the Government mentioned, during the pandemic, there is a risk of being another 2 million in one year. This means that the lives of hundreds of millions of girls and women are being destroyed because of the problems of customs and practices that lie behind this. It is about religious, patriarchal and outdated cultures. In Egypt, for example, genital mutilation is actually prohibited, yet 80 percent of the country's women and girls are genitally grafted. The ministers of the religious brotherhood in the previous government said that this must be done in order to control girls' sexuality. It was not long ago that a woman in the government of Malaysia, Deputy Prime Minister Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, claimed that it is female circumcision. One reduces the problem and says that it is a religious tradition and custom that one cannot legislate away. I think it is very serious when government representatives, ministers and a Deputy Prime Minister who is herself a woman say this. I believe that, although we have legislation, it is not enough if we do not go to the bottom of this and tell us what kind of torture, social problems and health problems this is. This affects not only women and girls, but also men and relationships. It destroys very much for many millions of people daily, not least when it comes to childbirth. That's why this has to be stopped. We must do everything in our power to carry out awareness campaigns at Swedish level, at European level, but also at the UN. As the Minister fears, this torture, like men's violence against women, honour violence and also violence against men, will affect hundreds of millions of women and girls. We must simply have awareness campaigns, but also raise awareness of these governments and the patriarchal structures, and I believe that Sweden can do so.
i-701331436ae0b94d-738	Madam President, I would like The incidence of genital mutilation is most common in 29 countries in Africa. The highest share is in Somalia and Guinea. In 26 of the 29 countries it is prohibited by law, but the legislation is not complied with. Amineh Kakabaveh is quite right that it is not enough to legislate. In addition to some African countries, genital mutilation also occurs in parts of the Middle East and Asia, Yemen, parts of Iraq, Iran, Indonesia and the Philippines. In several countries the incidence is often limited to smaller regions or to certain ethnic groups. Historically, this has also happened in the United States and in Europe. The aim of Agenda 2030 is to eradicate female genital mutilation by 2030, but as we have noted, work is too slow. It is estimated that 68 million girls are at risk of being sexually grafted by 2030, and protecting them will require a significant effort. As I mentioned earlier, UNICEF believes that the work would have to go ten times faster in order to achieve the goal. At the same time, progress has been made. Today, about one in three girls is affected against one in two 30 years ago. In countries such as the Central African Republic, Iraq, Liberia and Nigeria, the number of girls affected has decreased by half. The proportion of girls protesting against these abuses has doubled in the last 20 years. But it is a culturally sensitive issue. It is therefore of great importance that we work closely with local leaders in different countries, not least religious local leaders and opinion leaders. Religious arguments in support of genital mutilation also exist in countries where practice is prohibited by law. It is therefore often crucial to use religious actors as entrances to communities where genital mutilation is practised. Giving religious actors who oppose this practice the opportunity to use their platforms is extremely important for success in this work and against religion as a means of continuing with these practices. At the same time, we know that the religious writings do not support female genital mutilation. Yet this is stuck in traditional societies, and religion is being used. It is therefore important that we also use religion as a tool to reduce and get away from this type of abuse. Equally important, of course, are other traditional leaders of a non-religious nature. Genital mutilation is also a universal challenge. It cannot be fought without an absolute grass-roots commitment, including among young people. Young people and activists must be included in this work, given a voice and space and be part of the collective global approach. We must be more daring and have room to stand up and say: Enough! Enough! Civil society can also play an extremely important role in pursuing court cases that can lead to prosecution and in holding decision-makers to account for the failure to enforce the legislation that may be in place. The serious violation of the human rights of children, girls and women is a form of violence deeply rooted in gender inequality. It is an extreme form of discrimination against girls and women. It is an abuse of the human right to health, physical integrity and safety. It is about the right not to be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or other degrading treatment. It is also a question of the right to life, as this procedure sometimes leads to death. Since the procedure mostly takes place on children, it is also a serious violation of the rights of the child. There are simply no arguments for the world not to gather, mobilize and do all it can to get this hideous practice out of society.
i-701331436ae0b94d-751	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister very much for describing this problem in such a good and in-depth manner. There is no doubt that we agree, but the question is how to deal with this. That's what my interpellation is about. It exists in both Christianity and Islam, but it also occurs in those who are not very religious. We know that religious leaders who write lyrics of course affect poor people. Who are committing these crimes? Actually, it's women. The worst part is that it is women who do this to their fellow sisters, to their daughters and grandchildren. It makes it more difficult than any other violation of human rights, which is why the world has been silent for a long time. Never before have I heard a minister in this House compare this with torture and human rights violations. It is good that we are starting with it now, and I am pleased that the government is taking my interpellation issues seriously. I hope that Sweden does not stop at words but also acts strongly both in the UN and in those Member States where this has not yet been banned so that it is banned. Law is not enough; we must have information campaigns in refugee camps and in agriculture in the countries where Sweden is and works.
i-701331436ae0b94d-756	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is important to work with all the resources we have and the means available on the surfaces and in the contexts we find ourselves. It is about support for local opinion-makers and for networks of women and networks of men who can work to detect and combat this without leading to stigmatisation, exclusion or exclusion because they choose to violate practices that have dominated for a long time. It is about supporting religious actors to stand up and talk about this and to support decision-makers to dare present, enforce and live up to legislation. It is also about working globally with norms that create increased space so that we can much stronger push for women's and girls' sexual rights and health. I hope that the new administration in the United States, which rejects President Trumps's despicable policy in this area, opens up new opportunities to work more actively on this globally, because it is needed. These disgusting abuse of girls and women, often at an earlier age, must be brought to an end. I will conclude by thanking Amineh Kakabaveh for her welcome to the House. I would also like to thank her for the interpellation and for her tireless work in constantly lifting up the vulnerability of girls and women, issues of violence and other oppression. We must dare to lift this up, talk about it and mobilise resources and policies to combat it.
