i-1495cea5eaf20b62-10	Mr. Old President! Roger Haddad has asked me what I intend to do specifically to counter domestic extremism in society, with a particular focus on the particularly vulnerable areas. Roger Haddad has also asked me if I can explain how the Delegation against segregation and the Delegation for Young and Newcomers to work have contributed concretely to reducing exclusion. Furthermore, Roger Haddad has asked me whether I believe that developments in the fight against segregation are moving in the right direction and, if not, whether I intend to take any action. Reducing and counteracting segregation is a high priority for the government and part of the work for a safe and sustainable Sweden. Socio-economic segregation affects not only individuals but society as a whole. It risks weakening cohesion and causing contradictions between people and groups. Segregation can also prevent people from developing and using their abilities and contributing to the construction of society. Breaking segregation is therefore something that benefits everyone. Past experience has taught us that there are no quick or easy solutions to segregation. Therefore, in the summer of 2018, the Government decided on a long-term strategy to reduce and counteract segregation that applies for the period 2018 – 2028. The strategy is the basis for broad, long-term and sustainable work that includes efforts both to counter structural causes of segregation and to improve the situation in areas with socio-economic challenges. The five priority areas of housing, education, the labour market, democracy and civil society and crime are closely interrelated and interdependent. No single bet can in itself break the segregation. In December 2020, the Government adopted the Action Plan A Sweden that holds together – the Government's efforts to reduce segregation and good life chances for all. The action plan describes the government's efforts to counteract and reduce socio-economic segregation in Sweden. The Action Plan contains a large number of actions in several policy areas and reflects the breadth of the work carried out. Work to reduce and counteract socio-economic segregation needs to be done at all levels and within regular activities. To coordinate and systematise the work, the government has appointed the Delegation against segregation. The Delegation against segregation has a broad mandate to contribute through cross-sectoral work to increase the long-term impact of efforts against segregation. The Agency contributes to increased knowledge, promotes coordination and supports knowledge-based and strategic work in municipalities, regions and civil society organisations, including through the allocation of state grants. In order to reduce socio-economic segregation, it is essential to achieve increased employment and lower long-term unemployment in areas facing socio-economic challenges. This applies, in particular, to groups that are less closely linked to the labour market. The delegation for young and newcomers to work has the Government's mission to promote government and municipal cooperation in order to streamline the work of young people and newcomers in the workplace. This has given rise to new ways of working to meet employers' skills needs while shortening the way to work for job seekers, for example through so-called local job tracks. Combating serious crime and stopping the recruitment of criminal gangs is a high priority for the government. The judiciary has received both new tools and increased resources for this purpose. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that both the crimes and the causes of the crimes must be combated. To achieve this, a long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society is needed. Preventing young people from getting involved in crime requires, in addition to combating segregation and unequal conditions of upbringing, coordinated work from many actors, not least the police authorities, social services and schools. The government has also stepped up efforts to prevent radicalisation and to prevent recruitment to violent extremism and terrorism through the establishment of the Centre against violent extremism and through missions to several authorities. Involvement in the judicial system, especially in the Security Service and the Police Authority, means better conditions in the fight against terrorism. The Swedish Security Service has in recent years developed its cooperation with both the Police Authority and other authorities, including with the aim of trying to limit the spread of radical and violent interpretations of Islam in society. Despite extensive work, there is still inequality in Sweden. People's living conditions differ greatly depending on where they live or where they live. The pandemic and its consequences risk further increasing inequality, which underlines the importance of long-term and cross-sectoral policies to reduce and counteract socio-economic segregation.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-19	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the answer to the Liberals' interpellation, Minister Märta Stenevi! This is, of course, an area and a theme which we have repeatedly highlighted in recent years, both during the previous term of office and during this term of office, because we are extremely concerned about developments in the country. With regard to the action plan referred to by the Government, A Sweden that stands together, I would have liked us to have been able to stand here so far into the work and activities – we are approaching the end of this parliamentary term – and to see that it is moving in the right direction. However, I cannot see any such effects, and that is what concerns me. I read an interview with the Government the other day, Mr. Old President, focusing on segregation and exclusion. I missed the strong, clear reforms and the fact that we are following up on issues of radicalisation, extremism and the vulnerable areas. Just a few days ago, the police came up with an updated and revised picture of the situation in vulnerable areas. In a way, the picture was positive, as some areas left the list of so-called vulnerable areas – but at the same time there are additional areas. It is painful to see that no more is being done either from the state or from the local level to remove these vulnerable areas. As far as our question of domestic extremism is concerned, it is not a new problem either; it has been debated at least since 2014 or 2015 and the terrible terrorist attacks across Europe that have affected Sweden as well. The Security Service is still saying that domestic violence-promoting Islamist extremism constitutes one of the greatest threats, if not the greatest threat, to our democracy. Perhaps I would have liked, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to have explained more specifically how to tackle the environments that contribute to exclusion and, not least, to the fact that women are not allowed to live in freedom, to participate in the labour market on equal terms, nor to educate themselves and so on. As regards the general development of the vulnerable areas, which is the particular focus of my intervention, regardless of whether you look at the employment rate or the employment rate, there are huge differences between the socio-economically strong and weak areas. It can distinguish up to 25, 30 or 40 % of the employment rate between the most vulnerable areas and those with a better socio-economic outlook. This exclusion, Mr President-in-Office, particularly affects foreign born and, in particular, foreign born women. This also applies to long-term unemployment. The proportion of long-term unemployed in the most vulnerable areas is five times higher than in areas that are socio-economically strong. This has an impact on the area by area, regardless of whether we look at the employment rate or the level of education, such as pre-secondary or upper secondary education. None of this is going in the right direction, and I would therefore like to hear how Minister Stenevi, who has the coordinating responsibility for these issues in the government, sees developments. One of my questions was whether the government makes the assessment that it is moving in the right direction. On the basis of the government's own facts, I unfortunately see that things are going the wrong way.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-28	Mr. Old President! The interpellant asks me if I believe that the development of the work on segregation is moving in the right direction. This is an extremely important issue. Since Delmos presented the segregation index this summer, we will now not have to like that issue. Instead, we have objective measurements, which I think is very important for us to be able to put in the right efforts. The summary shows that the share of areas facing socio-economic challenges is growing slightly between 2011 and 2019. The same applies to areas with good socio-economic conditions – the proportion has increased slightly, which means that the difference increases. Delmos figures also show that socio-economic housing segregation has increased since the 1990s. The development is estimated to be driven by an increasing degree of separation between the most resource-efficient and the most resource-efficient. The groups that live the most segregated are those with the highest and the lowest incomes. A slight decrease in segregation is visible since 2012, but it is still too early to draw conclusions if it is a possible trend break we see. Thus, over the last decade, the proportion of areas facing socio-economic challenges has increased slightly while we see indications that segregation itself – how separate people from different socio-economic groups live from each other – is decreasing somewhat. Although we still do not know whether we have a trend break or not, there is no doubt that the problem is very big. Of course we want to take action. This is a task which, by its nature, is cross-sectoral, which is very important. The coordinating function that exists both in my ministerial portfolio and through Delmos will be crucial for us to manage to effectively break the segregation. Delmos himself cannot do much to break segregation, nor is Delmos's job. On the other hand, Delmos has an extremely important role to play in being an expert authority, thereby compiling and securing the skills, knowledge and information needed to enable those actors who have the best tools to break the segregation, that is, the municipalities, the regions, our civil society and our authorities, to evaluate their work so that we also get a continuous measurement of what development looks like. I think that is extremely important. Above all, I would like to point out that the strategies and action plans that we have now developed lay the foundations for us to be able to work on this issue in the long term and systematically. The great segregation that prevails, where those with the highest income and those with the lowest income live most separately from each other and from other parts of society, is a development that we need to break. It's not something that goes fast, but that's why it's so very important that we work very long-term, very structured and very systematic. There the expert authority Delmos is very important for us to know that we are doing the right things and also be able to measure this and follow it over time.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-36	Mr. Old President! Much of what the Government and Government raise here are known facts and statistics. These developments have been going on for a long time, and it cannot therefore come as news to the government that developments are going in the wrong direction and that we are getting more vulnerable areas. The police can then reclassify them as risk areas or particularly vulnerable areas, but the main development is going in the wrong direction. It is extremely worrying that even the experience of security is worse and the risk of being subjected to crime is greater in the socially vulnerable areas. Most recently today you can read in Svenska Dagbladet that the reorganized police's effort in crime prevention, which is absolutely central to the issues we are debating, is not delivered. It was promised that we would have more police officers in external service, and we would get closer to the citizens. I have addressed the prevention of crime for many years. So it is not a question of intervention, it is a question of being seen, that you are in the square, that you are visiting companies, retirement homes and schools. This is how you build trust and trust and act preventively so that residents, schools, companies – everyone – feel safe, no matter where you live in the country so that you do not want to escape from there. Not a day goes by, Mr. President-in-Office, without reading stories where people want nothing but to move from a certain address. They want to get out of these areas. They dare not let their children go to the store during the day. Mothers go out on the radio and say: N u we must do something ourselves, because society does not do enough. The police are not in place. Then we are talking about district police, which is perhaps one of the most important, namely the first line close to the local community. I do not think that the reform of the government and the statements that have been made have been delivered here. It's not supposed to be like that. I would like to hear from the government as a whole, because segregation is not only about socio-economics, unemployment and education, but also largely about security. Especially in these areas one should be able to feel safe, because they are still on the police list of most vulnerable or particularly vulnerable areas for various reasons. Delmos and the various delegations referred to by the government have been around for a number of years. My question to the government is: are you satisfied with the delivery? Do they meet the expectations of the missions? These legions have not been around for just six months or a year, but some have been around for several years. It may also be interesting for the House to hear whether the government is satisfied with their delivery. Are we going to be happy with the mission as it looks so far, or are they going to have another mission? We see these developments in socially vulnerable areas instead of a calibre that would lead us to other conclusions, namely that things are moving in the right direction.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-43	Mr. Old President! I'll start where the interpellant started: Is it news that segregation is a serious problem and that we have not yet broken development? No, that's absolutely not news. This is something that we have seen for a long time, and that is why we have already started the long-term, systematic work several years ago. Would I wish for the change to go faster? Yes, absolutely. I do not believe, however, that there is a quick fix on the great segregation, but I think that we must be able to keep working on these issues in a systematic and long-term manner, in order to bring about the radical change that is needed in those areas where segregation is greatest and where in many cases, in the areas with the lowest incomes, insecurity is also great. The interpellant asks if we are satisfied with Delmos's work. Yes, I am very pleased with Delmos's work. Delmos is an expert authority that cannot break segregation on its own, but Delmos can provide the authorities and social actors needed for us to join forces to break segregation with the tools they need. I would like to point out in particular the segregation index that has been developed. It is an index that points to precisely the socio-economic segregation, and it thus helps us to draw attention to areas before they are referred to as particularly vulnerable areas in police statistics. If we just look at the areas that are already in police statistics, we are too late on the ball. We need to see where developments are going in the wrong direction so that we can help municipalities, regions, county boards, civil society, police authorities and the other authorities needed, not least the school, to see the signals before areas have reached a point where insecurity is growing. The index is an important tool, and I think we will benefit greatly from it. I note that this is also welcomed by the police, for example, in order to get a common language for what we are talking about when we discuss segregation and vulnerability. The report that came from the police is important. I am receiving the same signal that the district police need reinforcements, and we have made it clear that this is necessary. We are well on our way to the goal of increasing the number of police workers significantly: although there is still some way to go until the target date of 2024, it looks like the target will be reached. Crime prevention is crucial, and an important part of it is the schools. I am therefore pleased that some of the schools that have had major problems have found ways to work constructively and structuredly to increase school safety. This applies, for example, to Rinkeby School in Järva, and this applies to Rosengård School in Malmö. The results of both schools today are completely different in terms of both school performance and safety measurements among pupils. It is also an important dimension that, while we never duck for the problems, we do not hesitate to point out what has turned around. In this way, we can learn from the good examples that exist. There are areas and schools in Gothenburg and Malmö as well as Stockholm that have shown that it is possible to reverse the trend. There, our expert authorities have an important role to play in capturing what works when things go in the right direction. This allows other municipalities, regions, civil society and police authorities in other parts of the country to benefit from these tools.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-50	Mr. Old President! The situation in the country is worrying. There are too many vulnerable areas, and it would be good if the government could take an active decision that by 2030, a year as the Liberals have proposed, there should be no vulnerable areas. However, there is no indication that this is possible on the basis of what I judge to be the proposals and reforms that this government has presented. Although a new segregation index is being developed, several of the parameters – the information – have been available, but the state has not managed to reverse the trend based on its role and responsibility. That's why it's finally going to be a lottery, Mr. Old President. With a local municipal management that prioritises crime prevention, it would be the long-term effort, not short-term projects. It is referred in various places to the state's spending on state subsidies. But this has also received some criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office. In some areas, state subsidies have had a positive impact, but they are too many short-term projects. The problem is that we do not know if the subsidies reach the right things. We cannot therefore see whether the state's resources for these areas will have an impact. What remains, where the state has a direct responsibility, is the police presence and security. It is not enough to say that we are generally increasing the number of police employees, but it is uniformed trained police officers that are needed for both the intervention activities and the crime prevention activities. It's about the local presence. It is not enough to write fine civic vows if you are finally unable to deliver local crime prevention work together with social services, schools and municipalities. Then we will not reverse the negative trend.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-54	Mr. Old President! I fully agree that clear objectives and clear dates are incredibly important. This is also the reason why strategies and action plans have been developed in order to be able to work structured and purposefully with the problems. Then I would like to say very briefly that it is extremely important that there are enough uniformed police officers in the field. However, I think the judiciary would agree with me that it is not unimportant that there are also enough investigators and sufficient skills to prosecute the perpetrators of crime, so that the consequences of committing crime are clear. It is important to note that in the case of segregation, social and economic divisions separate Sweden. When the Equality Commission notes that the remuneration from the social security systems has not been associated with the development of income, while the capital income of the richest have shrunk, we see that it creates economic divides and segregation. A market school and a housing system that separates Swedes from different backgrounds so that many natural meetings never take place means that the structures in schools and the housing market deepen and exacerbate social divides and segregation. Just like society, integration and segregation are human works. If something's wrong, we can change it. All those who suffer from the consequences of segregation – all victims of racism, the unemployed, all victims of honour crimes and of criminal gangs – deserve society and politics to focus fully on the issues. We will not stop taking measures to lift up vulnerable areas, but we will continue, with unabated force, to gradually reduce segregation, increase security and create freedom in Sweden for all its inhabitants. I thank the honourable Member for raising these important issues to debate.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-60	Mr. Old President! Louise Meijer has asked me what I intend to do to increase house building in Sweden. It is true that in recent years the growth in the production of detached houses has been lower than that of dwellings in blocks of flats. This is mainly due to a sharp increase in the number of completed apartments in multi-detached buildings. The fact that this construction is increasing is, of course, gratifying because it means that we can reduce the housing deficit. However, the number of completed houses has also increased – from around 8 000 per year ten years ago to between 10 000 and 12 000 homes per year in the last four years. That's an increase of 25 to 50 percent. According to SCB's preliminary figures, the construction of approximately 6 800 small houses was started in the first half of 2021. The municipalities plan and decide which land should be used to build small houses. However, the buildable land is a limited resource. Planning for multi-dwelling houses provides more new dwellings within the limited availability of buildable land. It is also more economically advantageous as more people benefit from investment in infrastructure and more. It is important that municipalities create the conditions for consumer demand for housing to be able to meet a supply that meets the needs, in line with the target set by the Riksdag for the housing market. It is therefore desirable that municipalities also create the conditions for more small houses. During the term of office, the Government has been working on several fronts to create better conditions for housing construction. Among other things, the government has submitted a proposal on private initiative aimed at enabling faster detailed planning processes. The Swedish Parliament has adopted the Government's proposal, and the amendments entered into force on 1 August this year. In December 2020, the Government appointed an investigation commission to investigate and propose measures to facilitate first-time buyers in the housing market. The investigation will, among other things, propose how a government start-up loan for first-time buyers will be designed. The purpose of these measures is to facilitate the entry into the market of owned dwellings. A number of measures are therefore under way to facilitate entry into the housing market and the construction of housing.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-67	Mr. Old President! First, a brief historical review. The Egnahem movement started in the 19th century and grew in scope during the 20th century. The auto-home movement aimed, among other things, at enabling workers to obtain small houses instead of the state-longs, cottages and rental apartments where workers usually lived and which were of such poor standard. To help finance the purchase of small houses, in 1904 the state set up a private home loan fund. Those who wanted to buy their own home could then apply for loans from their own home loan fund in order to afford to buy a home. That's for today. Today we see that many working people want to live in small houses, as opposed to multi-residential buildings, but that far too little is being built of the kind of housing that most people want. A majority of Swedes want to live in a small house with a garden. Studies show that this can be as much as 70 percent. Even young people want to live in houses. A survey by Novus revealed that young people want to own their housing and eventually also live in a villa or terraced house. In the long term, only 19 per cent want to live in a right-of-occupancy apartment and only 5 per cent in a right-of-occupancy apartment. In spite of this, the Government's response sounds like the pace of building small houses is not a problem. We see when we look at all the statistics from SCB that what is being built most of right now are rental apartments. But only 5% of us young people want to live in rental apartments. Although there is a great demand for small houses, very few of them are built. Small houses currently account for around 40 per cent of the dwelling stock. Only 20 per cent of newly produced dwellings make up small houses. Compared to ten years ago, construction of blocks of flats has increased by 137 per cent, but for villas the increase is only 2 per cent. Current housing policies, for which the Government is responsible among others, do not give priority to building small-scale houses, but instead to building multi-residential buildings, in which most people do not actually want to live. There are several factors behind the wrong direction of development. Municipalities earn more by selling the land to the production of multi-residential buildings, and infrastructure planning is easier. It is considerably more difficult to get through outline plans where land is used to build small houses. We also know that tax rules and other economic structures are disadvantageous to those who want to buy small houses. The Moderates have a number of suggestions to address these problems. I have some specific suggestions that I would like to ask if the Government might consider. Firstly, I want to reform and abolish rules that hinder the construction of small houses. Can the Government agree to this? My second question is whether the Government could possibly consider reviewing the possibility for the State to set up a fund that can compensate for a certain part of the municipal revenue loss in the case of land sales to small-scale houses rather than to multi-residential buildings, i.e. municipal compensation to some extent. The third question I would like to ask is whether Minister Stenevi would consider abolishing – rather than adding – tax rules that disadvantage small-house buyers compared with right-of-occupancy buyers.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-78	Mr. Old President! It was a little unclear which rules the interpeller wants to abolish; therefore I find it difficult to answer that question. In this situation, there are no plans to subsidise the construction of a villa or for the state to go in and compensate the municipalities for the sale of land. On the other hand, the Government continues its work on regulatory simplifications to promote the construction of both small and multi-residential buildings. For example, the recent change in the right of private initiative strengthens the capacity of municipalities for planning. This increases the supply of buildable land, because, as I think the honourable Member is very well aware, the biggest obstacle to the construction of small-scale houses today is precisely the construction of the land of the municipalities. A further example of simplification is that the government has commissioned a special investigator to carry out a systematic review of the regulatory framework for, among other things, building permits. The aim of this is to create a simpler, more efficient and more effective regulatory framework that ensures long-term sustainable building of housing. We have also recently decided on the legislative referral Certified construction design companies – a more predictable construction process. The proposal means that a developer should be able to use a certified construction design company for the design of new residential buildings, and if such a company is used, the Building Board shall not take into account requirements covered by the certification of building permits and start-up decisions. These proposals aim to solve the problem of different municipalities assessing the construction rules differently and to increase the predictability and efficiency of the construction process, which can facilitate not least for serial construction of, among other things, small houses. The proposal is further prepared following the opinion of the Legislative Council. In addition, work has been going on at Lantmäteriet for several years to shorten processing times and make processing more equal across the country, which also means that it will be faster to build small houses not least in rural areas. Finally, we have the rules of entry. I already pointed out in my response to the ongoing investigation into the possibility of a government start-up loan for first-time buyers, which would also make it easier for those who want to buy a small house.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-85	Mr. Old President! It sounds like gold and green forests, this. But the fact is that really, it doesn't folder with reality. As I was about to enter this debate, I did, like many others in my generation: I put a question to my followers on Instagram. Would you like to live in a villa sometime in your life? I got it. It turned out to be an overwhelming majority. Maybe it's not that strange, but something got stuck. For I got an answer to this question that was like this: It feels like it's a thing of the past if you don't inherit or have parents who can help you, so when I'm 60 maybe. Yeah, I wrote, it doesn't make sense that's the way it is. Besides, when do we know if the ISK tax will be increased? This makes it even harder for me to buy a villa in the long term. This puts its finger on the policy that the government with the Green Party at its head actually pursues. There's talk of a green folk house, but this makes the rest of us wonder if it's just rentals in the green folk house. Is it that a government party actually loathes villas and villas? You start to wonder when it's real estate tax and ISK tax. Some environmentalists also wanted to tax vacation homes if they had the chance. This, lo and behold, rejected the Congress of the Party. However, several proposals that the Government Party is pushing are directly hostile to more people being able to settle in the form they want, namely in a villa. Maybe this isn't so strange if you think about it more. The Green Green Party seems to have moved towards more of a grey concrete section. But it will be a paradox in itself, because when the Green Party wants to build more rentals, you wonder where the cement will come from. If they could think of building some more villas, well, then they should be made of wood. But then you wonder where the timber will come from, because we must not harvest any forest in this country if the Green Party is allowed to decide. If the Green Party has gone from a green folk house to a grey rental home, that is what I wonder about when I look at the government's policy on housing. My questions to Märta Stenevi are perhaps especially if she is willing to reconsider the position regarding property tax and charges such as increased tax on ISK and at the same time how she is reasoning now and whether she intends to compensate for the rejected proposal to tax holiday homes with some other hellishness for the homeowners in Sweden.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-93	Mr. Old President! That was a fascinating story of politics from different parties. However, I am here to answer in my role as Minister of State, so perhaps we will save the discussion of the Congress of the Environment Party for another occasion. I suspect the interim president may share that view. Then it's always fun to hear both expressions such as... gold and green forests... and that the government with the MP at its head is driving different kinds of politics. But let me start by securing Louise Meijer's followers on Instagram – the Green Party has no objection whatsoever to living in a villa. However, the planning of land in our municipalities is a municipal matter and is subject to self-determination in the municipal plan monopoly. I believe and hope that the honourable Member is also aware of this. With regard to the various types of proposals that the honourable Member throws into the debate, it is not the government's policy. I think that we are therefore saving this debate for a different occasion than an interpellation debate in which I am responsible for government policy. When it comes to the construction of small houses, not least the proposal on certified construction design companies that we have just presented is a very important part in getting small houses faster because we can hopefully work with serial construction in a better way. This is the aim of simplification. It also provides the opportunity for prices to fall when processes go faster, and it provides better construction environments in our cities when we get faster and easier construction processes. All these are important measures for a balanced housing market. We need a variety of housing. We have large groups in our society that are not at all at a stage where they are about to buy a small house, but they need a place to live. For these groups it is very important that we get enough housing in multi-family buildings and enough rental apartments on site and that they can be built at reasonable rents. There, the investment aid that the government has advanced and which the Moderates, with several leaders, want to slaughter, has made us have a completely different construction act today than we had ever had in the eight years that the Alliance Government ruled the country some time ago. All in all, of course, we welcome all forms of housing. We see a great need to add rental rights to reasonable rents in order for more people to have their own independent housing. We make regulatory simplifications that make it easier for municipalities and companies to plan land in detail and for companies to build, even small houses, faster. All this together, including the government start-up loan for entry into the owned market, I believe and hope will have positive effects both on the functioning of the housing market as a whole and on those who want to live in small houses.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-100	Mr. Old President! Compared to ten years ago, construction of blocks of flats has increased by 137 per cent, but the corresponding figure for house production is only 2 per cent. I shall now do something as amazing as putting my faith in the Government's ability to give a straight answer to the following question: Does Minister Märta Stenevi think that it is a problem that so few villas are being built? I'd like a simple yes or no.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-102	Mr. Old President! I think it's a big problem that not everyone has a place to live. I think it is a big problem when construction and detailed planning processes become so slow and costly that it stops construction. I see that we are putting forward policies that will facilitate the construction of both small and multi-detached houses. In the last 20 years, not least during the time of the last alliance government, it has been built far too little. Both income differentials and house prices have therefore increased. For more and more people it has become unrealistic to save up for a owned dwelling, and for those who can actually save, the time it takes to get together for a cash bet has become longer and longer. This means that the number of households subject to rental rights has increased while the share of rental rights in the stock has decreased, not least in the last eight years with alliance government. All in all, therefore, we have a situation where for several decades too little has been built, income differentials have increased and house prices have risen. It is no wonder that so many people find it difficult to get a foot in the housing market or to adapt their housing situation when life changes. This creates a breeding ground for overcrowding, renov counts and settlement. When the Moderates and Christian Democrats joined forces and abolished investment support in 2019, it was a blow to the possibility of building reasonably priced rental apartments. Removing investment aid for rental rights in a situation where we have just begun to build up and pay off the housing debt that has been built up since the time of the alliance government would be nothing but headless. If we do not add enough housing in total to the housing market, we – this is quite simple market economy – will continue to have a situation where prices go up and it becomes more difficult for the relocation chains to function optimally. We are working to build more small houses and more apartments. Both are important, not least in order to continue to clean up the housing debt that was built up over so many years.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-107	Mr. Old President! Momodou Jallow has asked me what I intend to do in the short term to ensure that children in families that are currently in danger should not be evicted from their homes, if I believe that evicting children is in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and what I intend to do in the long term to ensure that no children should be homeless. He has also asked me whether I intend to take steps to stop further sales of public and private rentals in order to make available the cheap rentals that are still available to families with children who have been evicted and are not currently able to enter the rental market because of too high rents. The Government takes a very serious view that the number of children affected by evictions increased during the first half of 2021, and we are monitoring the development in close dialogue with the housing market partners. In the budget proposal for 2022, the government makes a historic effort to allow children to grow up in safe conditions. The government, for example, provides more than SEK 300 million to ensure that there is shelter for violent children and adults. The Government also intends to develop a new national homelessness strategy for 2022 – 2026, which should include preventive work, and allocate SEK 40 million for this purpose. Several actions taken by the government during the crisis help families with children in the short term. We have strong social security and housing benefits, unemployment benefits, health insurance and parental insurance, which protect low-income households and protect them in the event of sudden occurrences such as illness or unemployment. The pension scheme has introduced, in two instalments, a temporary supplementary allowance for children's households with housing allowance. It is also possible to apply to the social services for assistance and financial assistance. According to the Rentals Act, the Social Welfare Board has the possibility to assume liability for unpaid rent and thus prevent termination. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been Swedish law since 1 January 2020. In accordance with Article 27, the Convention entitles each child to the standard of living required for the development of the child, such as a dwelling. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed guidance and knowledge support for how to handle the child's best interests and will also update its guidance on eviction prevention. In order to increase knowledge of and strengthen the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Government is implementing the Knowledgelift for the Rights of the Child. Kronofogden is part of the lift and has among other things developed its guidelines and working methods for eviction prevention work. The knowledge support developed nationally now needs to be used at local level. The National Board of Health and Welfare's report on combating and preventing homelessness shows the importance of municipalities acting quickly and clearly when a family is at risk of losing their rental contract. The Government has therefore commissioned the county boards to continue to support the municipalities in preventing eviction during 2021, especially in terms of collaboration with landlords and Kronofogden. The Government has also appointed the inquiry A socially sustainable housing supply, which among other things has the task of proposing how we can create conditions that facilitate the situation for households who find it difficult to obtain housing on market conditions. Many municipalities need access to more housing to prevent and prevent both evictions and homelessness. Since 2016, the Government's investment aid has been granted for nearly 49,000 dwellings, of which less than half has been completed. Since February 2020, some of the homes built with the support must be offered to municipalities, which in turn can pass them on to the needy. Applications for aid granted since February 2020 should result in at least 1 500 such apartments, both newly built and in the housing stock. There is a strong strengthening of the capacity of municipalities to manage the housing supply.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-114	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister Märta Stenevi, for your answer! We have to establish the facts. The situation is deeply worrying. It is worrying and unacceptable in one of the richest countries in the world. The evictions of families with children continued to increase during the pandemic, despite the Corona. In the first half of 2017, 188 children were evicted. The first half of 2021 was 273 children. That's almost 50 percent increase in just four years. It is a great shame for a rich country like Sweden that there are children who do not have a home to go to. Three out of four evictions of families with children concern single parents, most of whom are single mothers. It is often mothers who work in health care. So it is mainly the children of the single women who have fought hard to help all of us under the coronapandemy who are now becoming homeless. Shameful, I say to Sweden. The bailiff, as the Government mentioned here, has already warned that we are likely to see an even greater number of evictions next year because so many have become poorer. As many as 42 per cent of single parents stated in January 2021 that they find it difficult to pay their bills. There is much evidence that the increase is due to the pandemic, as those most affected by the pandemic are households in the lowest income classes. The landlords initially gave a delay, but now they can't push it anymore. What did the government do? Not much for the poorest, I can say. There is no national stop for evictions of tenants, as has been the case in Germany, France and the United Kingdom, for example. We do not want to do that in Sweden. There is no financial support for tenants but only for owned dwellings. There is grace, despite the fact that the poorest households live in rental apartments and, furthermore, those most affected by Corona are. It must be possible for the housing minister and the government to have two balls in the air or two thoughts in their heads at the same time. You can't turn a blind eye to reality. Work must continue to ensure that vulnerable families achieve stability and a capacity to pay before it goes as far as being evicted. It must also be understood that many families are already on the brink of eviction. For them, no investigations or lengthy conversations are helpful. Obviously, social security cover, housing allowance, unemployment benefit, health insurance and so on are not enough. These are important efforts, but they are not enough. Then we would not have had to see 273 children left homeless in the first half of this year. The government should do its utmost to stop the evictions that are at hand, so that we do not have another record year when it comes to evicted children in 2022. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister responsible, Märta Stenevi: in what way does the Government believe that in the short term this will help children in families that are currently in danger, so that they will not be evicted from their homes?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-123	Mr. Old President! It is very serious that the number of children affected by evictions has increased in the first half of 2021, after a positive development over many years where we have been able to reduce the number of children exposed to evictions. We're seeing a trend break this year, and it's very serious. The government is following these developments very closely. We called without any delay the parties to the housing market for talks as soon as the information from Kronofogden was published. When it has gone so far as to an eviction to be carried out, very much of the damage is already done. The right of the household to remain in the dwelling in question has ceased. Postponing the move to the future is not a sustainable solution in the first place, but society must make efforts before you arrive at an eviction. The most important thing we can do to prevent someone being evicted is to ensure that the person can pay their rent right from the start and that the person receives the necessary support from the municipality and social services. Ensuring that more people have a job to go to and creating strong security systems for those who lose their livelihood are fundamental elements of that work. In particular, municipalities need to act quickly and clearly when a family with children is at risk of being laid off from their home. The county administrative boards support the government's commission to the municipalities to work eviction prevention, and the Kronofogden has also, as part of the Knowledgelift for children's rights, updated their working methods. A lot of work remains to be done to prevent children from risking insecure growing up and homelessness. In addition to the SEK 300 million invested in sheltered housing for violent children and adults, the government also invests SEK 40 million in a national homelessness strategy, and we continue to build more and more homes with the help of investment support. However, because of the economic situation caused by the outbreak of the Corona virus, many households have also received or are at risk of greatly reduced disposable income. The housing allowance is income-tested and therefore a reliable benefit for reaching households with weak finances. It is an appropriate benefit for providing extra resources to financially vulnerable children's households. We know that housing costs are the single largest item of expenditure for many households. In order to reduce the risk of families with children not being able to pay their housing costs, it is appropriate to increase the housing allowance for families with children with a supplementary allowance for a limited period of time. A reinforced housing allowance can also be a support for households with children who have not previously received housing allowance but who, due to the outbreak of the virus, have suffered a major deterioration in their disposable income and therefore apply for and receive housing allowance. The supplementary allowance for families with children is an exceptional allowance. However, there are many rules linked to the aid, including that it should be used restrictively for a limited period of time. The pandemic has indeed been extraordinary, and I am therefore pleased that we introduced it. The government's initial assessment was that there would be a need for the temporary additional assignment during the period July – December 2020. The government has also continuously monitored the development of the households concerned and the extent to which various interventions related to the coronavirus interact and have an impact on the household economy. The Government considered that there was a continued need for reinforcements for household-dwelling units within the housing allowance and that the support should therefore also be provided in the second half of 2021. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say that when we look at the rear-view mirror, we can see that the temporary housing allowance should not have been paused, but it should have remained in that six-month period. It was estimated that we would get out of the situation faster than was actually the case. Now it is positive that we are seeing more and more people in work again and that more and more people are getting their finances back. But the damage is still alive.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-134	Mr. Old President! The Government mentioned that we must ensure that you can pay your rent from the start. That is exactly what the Left Party was on when the pandemic struck. Then we said that we need to make sure that people can afford to pay their rents. Then we suggested support for tenants, but the Green Party and the government said no to it. We've proposed an eviction stop. The Green Party and the Social Democrats said no to that. Now we see the consequence of that. I would like to go further and talk about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which I also mentioned in my interpellation. The Articles 26 and 27 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child say, among other things, that children have the right to social security and the right to state aid if parents or other guardians lack sufficient resources, as well as the right to a fair standard of living, such as housing, clothing and food. When, in the same breath as she mentions the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Minister of Housing also highlights the importance of facilitating housing for households who find it difficult to obtain housing on market terms, one must ask whether the Minister for Housing really does not see the link with the constant sale of our public housing companies. Today's situation is that in one third of the evictions of families with children, the debt is less than SEK 10,000. In some cases families with children have been evicted because of a rental debt of SEK 600. Thus, in one of the richest countries in the world, families with children are evicted because their parents cannot pay a debt of SEK 600. That is not acceptable. Since the Convention on the Rights of the Child became law, society's responsibility to take into account the best interests of the child has become clearer. Unfortunately, however, it seems all too often only on paper and not in reality. Instead, families with children are all too often evicted into short-term and unsafe accommodations such as hotels, hostels, on-call apartments or, at worst, shelters. I know this because I live in Malmö where the number of evicted families with children is increasing. Short-term, insecure housing is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and is, above all, directly harmful to the health of the child. What could have been done differently during the pandemic? Yes, very much. The government first stopped the supplementary allowance and then reintroduced it in July this year. I appreciate the Minister for Housing being self-critical here. She even said in an interview that you shouldn't have stopped the supplementary allowance. Nevertheless, it has been chosen not to extend the aid more than until the end of the year – this despite the fact that the pandemic is still ongoing and not least that the continued effects of it are to be expected for those inhabitants with the least financial margins. That the Minister for Housing points out that during the pandemic two times the government has introduced a temporary supplementary allowance for children's households who have housing allowance as a strong effort is a bit strange because the same government stopped this grant in January and stopped it again now in December. However, since the Minister for Housing herself raises this question in her reply to me, she is happy to answer if the government intends to extend the amendment once again at the end of the year. Both Märta Stenevi and Magdalena Andersson continue to repeat that the government has no plans to introduce eviction stops for families with children. But it's necessary. Why should it not be introduced? Other countries have done so. It is important that we protect our children in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child we have promised to observe. Does the Government believe that eviction of children is in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and what does she intend to do in the long term to ensure that no child should be homeless?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-145	Mr. Old President! No, I do not think that any child should be left without accommodation, and I do not think it is worthy when children are passed around at hostels. I think me and the interpellier are in complete agreement here. My view is that our policy should always aim to ensure that no child should end up in a situation where eviction is current. The municipality and social services will be able to make the necessary efforts, and the county boards now have a very clear mission to support the municipalities in this work so that families will not even face threats of eviction. That must be our policy. When the pandemic struck, a number of major efforts were made, not only in the form of additions, but to prevent loss of income due to this extraordinary situation and to secure security systems so that you could get through the pandemic as painlessly as possible. Short-term lay-offs to avoid large notice, increases in unemployment funds and withdrawals have been aimed at strengthening households' ability to pay, including families with children. We want to see long-term solutions for children and a long-term strategy for people not to lose their home. Setting a moratorium is associated with a wide range of legal problems which I shall not go into in detail here and now. However, I would like to point out that the countries mentioned by the interpeller have very weak security systems compared to ours. What we do in Sweden and which I am proud of, want to continue to develop and want Sweden to become even better at is to ensure that families do not end up there. Our security systems should step in before eviction is necessary. We have read in the media that families have been evicted because of a debt of SEK 600. I cannot tell whether this is really about that debt, because I cannot judge individual cases. I note, however, that we shall have systems in place and municipalities that will be able to catch up with families before then. Municipalities should be able to go in and ensure that families with children are not evicted because of small debts. We have the systems, and now they're going to be used. The national guidelines that have been developed need to be used locally, and the work carried out by county boards to strengthen municipalities on these issues is very important. The objective, which I believe the honourable Member shares with me, is that no families with children should face an eviction at all. All our combined strength and policies and the support systems we have must aim for children to grow up in a safe home where the family is not threatened by eviction. This is where we should put our power so that it never even comes to that.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-153	Mr. Old President! I hear what the Government says about stepping in with efforts before the children get evicted, and I agree with her. This is exactly what I'm trying to say by having two thoughts in your head at the same time. Long-term efforts can be made to avoid this happening, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that there are children today who are being evicted and become homeless. This means that we have failed in our efforts. We need to look at the current situation and try to find short-term solutions for those who are evicted while making long-term efforts to avoid more children becoming homeless. The bailiff says that if nothing is done, there will be more next year. The long-term is good, but what does the Minister intend to do for the hundreds of children who are already evicted? What will be done to ensure that these children have a home in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child? The left is clear. We want an immediate stop to eviction of families with children. We also want an immediate stop to the continued sale of public utility housing companies, because it is society's best tool to get housing quickly. Sweden needs a strong public good with a large stock that can be directly at its disposal when a crisis like this occurs. We must therefore stop selling our commons. We must carry out the survey of child homelessness in Sweden that the Ombudsman for Children has called for. We must also have a national plan of zero vision for child homelessness, and it must be developed as soon as possible. I hope that the Government takes this seriously and not only talks about it but acts quickly.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-158	Mr. Old President! I would like to reiterate my most important message here today, namely that when it has gone so far as to face an eviction, the damage is already done. Postponing the move to the future is not a sustainable solution there, but society needs to come in with efforts even before you arrive at a situation where you are threatened with eviction. The most important thing we can do to prevent someone from being evicted is to make sure that you can pay the rent from the start. The fact that more people have a job to go to and the creation of strong security systems for those who lose their livelihood are by far the most basic elements there. Since then, the pandemic has created an extraordinary situation, and we have put in place measures to cover for them, to meet developments and to strengthen the wallets of vulnerable families with children. It has been about the major general efforts, such as strengthening the unemployment fund and short-term lay-offs, and also about providing targeted money to strengthen vulnerable families with children to manage to pay the rent and put food on the table, through the addition of the housing allowance. In the future, we will have to continue working to ensure that everyone can afford to pay the rent from the beginning, but at the same time we have to look at the supply side. Municipalities need more housing in order to be able to take responsibility for the housing supply. Here I would like to highlight the government's investment aid, which has been granted for the construction of nearly 50 000 homes and which is an important part of this puzzle. This means that the number of public-interest apartments has increased over the last three years rather than disappearing, and conversions have also decreased. The government will continue to work from many different directions and edges to reduce evictions, especially where children are involved. In particular, the homelessness strategy will be an important piece of the puzzle. Basically, the aim must be that no single child should be evicted from his or her home and that all children, both those who are in homelessness today and those who are threatened by homelessness, should instead have a safe situation, the opportunity to focus on their education and grow up safe and secure in a home.
i-LyxBKYZsq86DeNtzL89MJZ	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister of State Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark and Minister of State Märta Stenevi. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-164	Madam President, I would like Prior to the 2014 elections, Stefan Löfven promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020. Today, only three EU countries have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. So we really have not been the best, but are now in place 24 out of 27 countries. Moreover, we now have higher unemployment than the EU average, something that has never happened before since we joined the EU in 1995. We have also lost the position of the EU country with the highest employment rate. In a situation where unemployment is among the highest in the EU, where long-term unemployment is the worst measured in modern times and where the number of new arrivals without self-sufficiency is record high, it could be thought that the government's proposals in this area would be extremely comprehensive. But, believe it or not, the Ministry of Labour does not announce a single bill this autumn. Is the Minister for Employment and the Government satisfied with the situation? If not, why are there no plans at all for proposals in the labour market and integration?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-167	Madam President, I would like I thank Jan Ericson for the important question of how we can push unemployment down. I can begin by saying that Sweden entered the pandemic very strongly. Since the 2014 elections, during the time of the government Lövven, 300,000 more people have come to work, including 230,000 foreign born, until the pandemic. We have been hit hard by the pandemic, and that also applies, of course, to the labour market. The government has made very strong efforts to push down unemployment and to ensure that jobs and businesses are saved. Only with the short-term measure has 600 000 people been covered by the security that it means not getting rid of their work. Government policy has saved tens of thousands of jobs. Let's take the next step. Today I can tell you that we have 117 000 vacancies at Platsbanken. It's a tough time right now, but the future is bright.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-169	Madam President, I would like The truth is that the situation has deteriorated in Sweden since the 2014 elections and that long-term unemployment has increased. We also see how we have lost compared to other countries in the world around us. It's not the pandemic that's the cause. My question is still: what new approach does the Minister for Labour intend to take to reverse the situation? The policy that has already failed cannot be the answer. When will new proposals be placed on Parliament's table?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-171	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to be able to tell you about the very important reforms that the government is undertaking to save jobs and businesses, but also to ensure that we have the opportunity to push down long-term unemployment and ensure that employers have the opportunity to employ. We are now taking the biggest reforms in modern times in the Swedish labour market. We are reforming the Public Employment Service for a more effective match and are making proposals for greater flexibility and opportunities for retraining through a full career through security, LAS and transition – to take some examples.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-173	Madam President, I would like After just over a year and a half of pandemic and subsequent reductions in the hotel and restaurant sectors, these industries find it difficult to find staff when they get the guests back to the hotels and restaurants. Many of those who were out of work a little over a year ago have moved on to other industries, and recruitment has been virtually non-existent. Now hotels and restaurants are screaming for staff, staff that are often undetectable. Therefore, many companies have even turned outside the EU to seek staff for hotels and restaurants. It is almost absurd that we cannot find staff for restaurants and hotels, given that Sweden's unemployment is among the three highest in the EU.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-175	Madam President, I would like We have 117 000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market today. That is why the measures taken by the government are so important. We are creating more local job tracks, where employers' need to employ is paired with the opportunities that we see in that many people want to attend an education and learn a profession. That is one such example. The government has also made sure to start a whole new form of labour market policy effort that we call intensive years. We will soon also launch start-up jobs, which will be crucial to ensuring that people who are far from the labour market and new arrivals have the opportunity to get to work.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-176	Madam President, I would like The fact that restaurants find it difficult to find staff in a country with unemployment among the EU's highest is, of course, a failure. It can't be anything else. How is it that people on the labour market have not been prepared to take on the jobs that exist? Obviously this has not happened. We have one of the EU's highest unemployment rates, and restaurants must seek staff outside the EU. This is an absurd situation. How does the government view its responsibility? The fair speeches we've heard for a while now, but nothing happens.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-178	Madam President, I would like We are taking historically strong measures to ensure that people are in education and to improve and reinforce matching. This is a serious problem, but there are also huge opportunities, because jobs are now growing in the Swedish economy. I would also like to remind you that there is nothing on the part of the opposition that we can take on board. We drive the development of ideas ourselves. As soon as the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats, have the opportunity to slaughter the resources for labour market policy. That's not the way to go.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-180	Madam President, I would like A report of concern comes to the Social Services about a child's being ill with his or her parents. An investigation will be launched, and efforts will be given to the family. That's very good. However, it is not a legally secure system if, at the same time, there are further investigations with evidence of taking care of the child without the parents knowing it or knowing what the reasons for it are, so that they can work with changes to remedy their shortcomings. Moreover, if discussions with children take place in a way that does not provide legal certainty and it is not ensured that it is the stories of the children that come forward and do not answer leading questions, it will be the case that children are cared for when they do not need it and that children who need to be cared for will not be cared for.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-183	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that the report of concern should be made. It is an obligation for those who work with children and young people in school, care and other contexts. Of course, social services are also assigned to hold conversations with parents. Of course, the ambition is always to provide all available support for parents to remain well-functioning guardians and to remain a well-functioning family. There should not be too many disposals, nor too few. That, of course, is always a balancing process. It is often quite difficult from the outside to assess whether that is true or not, because hopefully there is a lot of work that has preceded this. If the question was how to work evidence-based and how to make sure that you do the right things, I think it is a task for social services as well as other parts of welfare to take part in both the research and the empirical that exists so that you do the right thing. That, of course, is the purpose.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-186	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. However, I miss the government taking steps forward and pointing out what kind of skills are needed to help strengthen these things in all parts – both in social services and in the judiciary. It's missing today. There is a lack of uniform methods to ensure that every child's rights and the rights and opportunities of every parent to be as good parents as we all want. Here the government needs to take a step forward and point out what steps we should take.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-188	Madam President, I would like When it comes to which competence is best and what is required and what kind of guidance you may need as a staff to do the right thing, it is of course a task that lies not least with the National Board of Health and Welfare. It is about issuing these types of guides and guidelines and holding different forms of competence development training in order for the staff to be able to follow what is happening. I am happy to continue discussions with Martina Johansson on this, because the issue is certainly not simple. But I would say that Swedish social services are doing a fantastic job and have great challenges ahead of them.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-191	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Mr Shekarabi, and it concerns the issue of pensions. We in the Left Party find it remarkable that the government has not chosen to raise the lowest pensions significantly. Just recently, the pension allowance provided by the government was announced, and those with the lowest pensions were completely absent. My question to the Government is therefore: why has it been chosen not to raise the lowest pensions by about SEK 1 000, which the Left Party called for in the Government's budget? Sweden has the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. When will the government meet their needs and ensure that they receive a dignified pension? Is 1 000 kroner too much to ask when at the same time we reduce the tax by twice as much money so that everyone can buy a latte?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-195	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the question and for the commitment to the pension issue! I am pleased that there are now more parties in the Swedish Parliament that support the increase in pensions. Pensions must be increased. We have now implemented a pension supplement, which was paid out for the first time last month. This means that many people who have worked their entire working lives but have low pensions today receive an increase in their pension. Those who meet most get an increase of over $5,000 a year. The next natural step is to increase the pension contribution so that we ensure that we increase the contributions to the pension system so that we have the opportunity to continue raising pensions. In addition, the government has included in this budget an increase in the housing allowance for pensioners targeted at pensioners with the weakest economies. Both the ceiling in the housing supplement and the consumption allowance in the housing supplement are raised. These are important steps. However, I agree with Ida Gabrielsson's assessment: pensions must continue to be raised.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-199	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Government has that view. At the same time, it is very clear – if I have not made a mistake – that the Social Democrats are protecting this group of pensioners, where the Left Party is not included. Talking about increasing the fees will not help if you do not make such proposals. When will the government ensure that fees are increased? And when will those with the lowest pension, regardless of whether you have a housing supplement or not, be able to have a worthy old age?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-201	Madam President and Ida Gabrielsson! The Social Democrats and the government see a need for long-term cooperation on the issue of pensions, for these issues are long-term. The decisions we make here and now can have consequences in 40 years' time. It is reasonable, then, that we have cross-block cooperation in this area. However, it does, of course. The parties in the Pensions Group must all take responsibility for long-term pension increases so that we reach decent levels for our pensioners. We are working on this issue, not least with regard to the pension contribution.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-204	Madam President, I would like The care queues plague Sweden. They torment the patients, and they torment the staff. The pandemic has put us on hold, and it has been necessary. But even before the pandemic, we had record-long care queues, which were almost perceived as a normal state. What we need to do now is gather together in order to be able to shorten the care queues. Money is available to cope with the postponed care, but it takes more than money. The government's own investigation has been submitted, and it proposes, among other things, a state committee. I do not think that a committee will make much difference to patients. On the other hand, we Christian Democrats believe that patients need information on the location of the available capacity in the country. And where do you inform the easiest? Well, through a website, of course. There is also a need for an agreement between the health care provider and the responsible region, and preferably a financial compensation for patients who need to make long journeys.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-209	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for a question that I intend to mark these Question Time ahead and certainly the whole political debate, not least until the election movement and in it! People have the right to feel secure in getting care on time and in receiving care as needed. You should not have to go unnecessarily far, but of course you should be prepared to go if there is care to get somewhere else. This is what today's health guarantee means: If you do not receive care in your own region, the former county council, you can turn to another part of the country. For me, it is important to also say that you should not have to call around yourself, but the care must help with this. There are structures in each region to help and support this. However, the government is not entirely satisfied with this, and that is also why we have had and have a delegation to work for greater accessibility in healthcare. It has made proposals, and that is not only the proposal that Mr Ankarberg Johansson mentioned, but also several others. They're being prepared now, and we're going to look at them.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-213	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt the ambitions of the government, but a policy of hope is not enough. It is also necessary to ensure that patients actually get access to the available capacity. Although I am happy to be involved in discussing legislative changes on health guarantees and such matters, it is now, this autumn and this spring, that we must do everything we can to ensure that patients have the available spare capacity. If we succeed in doing so, we will make it easier both for the patient and for the staff, who have to handle a very large transition in the future. The government's response needs to be clearer.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-215	Madam President and Mr Ankarberg Johansson! Resources, skills, more educated people and the interaction and total participation that existed at the beginning of the pandemic, of course, we would also need in such a context. Both public and private actors may be able to put aside other things in order to prioritise ensuring that those who have had to wait do not have to wait as long. I do not think we should simplify the discussion too much. It will be difficult, and it will take time. But we're gonna do everything we can. When it comes to whether to have a single queue or several different types of offices, that question will probably have to be discussed with the regions.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-218	Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. When DN talks to Ingrid, who has home care, she says that she wants those who come into her home and come near her to be vaccinated. But she also says that she does not dare to make that demand. To DN she says: You are in an addiction position to get your help, and then you are not so cocky. I think we can all recognize that. I have no doubt that the Government and I agree that vaccinations save lives. The Government has also highlighted, for example, Arjeplog as an example when they say that the non-vaccinated person may need other tasks. Therefore, I wonder: Is the Government willing to review whether the law can be made clearer? We know that many municipalities say that the law is unclear and that the legal situation is uncertain. They say that investigations are needed, or they try to investigate for themselves. Can the government consider taking responsibility for it not to matter where you live? The safety and safety net must always be there.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-222	Madam President, I would like Answer yes. The government is, of course, prepared to take responsibility for people feeling secure in getting the care they need, no matter where they live in the country. But to come to the specific question: Is it so unclear? What kind of requirements do you really have to make? I don't really feel that ambiguity anymore. I think most people have realised and understood that it is a very important commitment to carry out an activity, if we focus on elderly care, which is aimed at people who are often over 70, fragile and ill. They have the right to feel secure, both in a particular accommodation and if they are dependent on home care. They shouldn't have to ask the question. I do not advocate in any way an organisation or structure in which the elderly should have to force a certain development. The operator and manager of the business must ensure that the elderly are not exposed to a risk – by asking the question, by encouraging vaccination in various ways and by facilitating vaccination. Ultimately, other measures, such as relocation, may need to be taken.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-225	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Then we agree on the objective, as I read it, but perhaps not so united at the moment. I only hear this week that Skellefteå says that the legal situation is uncertain. Enköping says it's safe but you can't ask. Stockholm doesn't know. After all, we cannot have a situation where many say that the speed limits on the signs are easy to read but where some others say they are a rebus. Then we must ensure – as a state, as a nation – that together we find clear regulations, national guidelines and legislation: what is allowed, and how do we protect the fragile?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-227	Madam President, I would like Legislative change does not solve the current situation. We can certainly agree on this, not least in this House. It'll take quite a while. We cannot wait for it, but we need to resolve the situation here and now. Together with the Minister for Labour, I had a meeting just a few weeks ago with the various health trade unions, the Swedish municipalities and the Regions and the healthcare companies. I think we agreed that it's not that unclear, but that it's a matter of working very hard. You can't face all the unvaccinated same, but you have a huge responsibility. There are regulations from the Public Health Agency that say that you should not expose people who are over 70 to the risk of severe disease, which is this.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-229	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are gathering today in my hometown of Helsingborg. There are, of course, a lot of suggestions there that I think are less good. An example of proposals is to review the taxation of health insurance: a review of the taxation of health insurance is proposed by the Moderates, with the aim of not taxing it. ..................................................... An important starting point for us Social Democrats is that care should be given in time, of course, but also as needed. There should also be no cream files for those with fat wallets to buy before others in the queue.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Yasmine Bladelius! No, the government does not want to abolish the preferential taxation of private health insurance. We need a more coherent system rather than one that is more fragmented. We also need to make sure that you feel confident about getting care just as you need it, not by wallet or by ability to even buy a private health insurance policy. I have just recently received an investigation into private health insurance. We'll prepare it. We very probably need to come back with further proposals in this area in order to curb this development, which concerns me very much.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-236	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. That, of course, is reassuring. On the contrary, when I read the documents of the Moderates' voice, it seems that they want a parallel system in which you can deduct the cost of your insurance from the tax. So it's supposed to be a system for those who have a fat wallet and a system for the rest of us. What will happen to the proposals presented by the Government's investigation?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-238	Madam President, I would like The suggestions go as I said for a referral, and then we'll have to look at them. I think that I and the government will probably have to come back to Parliament with further proposals. I would like to say that I find this a very worrying development. Not least during the time we have behind us so far in relation to the pandemic, it has nevertheless been a certainty to know that you get care as needed. It's never been about anyone buying themselves before. For me it is a very important basic bolt both in the Swedish model and in the general welfare. A safe upbringing in family homes
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-241	Madam President, I would like This week we were able to learn that children, not least young children, are increasingly being placed in institutions or HVB homes. For example, Gothenburg reported that their longest placement related to children aged between seven and nine years who were placed in HVB homes without guardians for more than two years. HVB homes are a bit of a necessary evil, but from a child's perspective it is extremely difficult to connect in such an environment with constant staff changes. It is a home that is basically not a home but an institution. The reason that the municipality, in this case Gothenburg, stated was that it has become increasingly difficult for them to find and recruit family homes. These developments mean that children are at risk of not having their fundamental rights met.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Nicklas, for a question that has been increasingly discussed recently. I very much welcome that. Every child has the right to feel that they are guaranteed a safe upbringing. Hopefully, as we talked about here earlier, they get it in their biological family if the parents have the ability to be good guardians, raise their children and have a well-functioning family relationship. It's not always like that. It may be because of different things. Family homes are a very nice alternative, but we have been able to see for a number of years how the family homes have become fewer and fewer. For various reasons, it is difficult to recruit new family homes. I would urge everyone listening to this debate to consider whether you could be a place for a child who needs a temporary or perhaps long-term alternative home. But it cannot be that children are placed in a completely different environment from what you really know would be the best. So we must continue our efforts to make more people want to be family homes. I will come back in my next speech to further efforts.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-248	Madam President, I would like Then please develop this further, Minister!
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-249	Madam President, I would like We have just set up an investigation that Carina Ohlsson, colleague of all of you in here, leads and who will look at just how we can help to get a quality increase in family homes, how more will and be able to become family homes, if we are going to have a national register and so on. We are really taking a big grip on the family home issue. But again: it is difficult for social services to place children in the best possible environment unless the family homes are there. We all have a responsibility there.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-252	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Labour. In Gothenburg, from which I come, we have created a forum for dialogue between the tourism industry and politics during the pandemic. The social democrats have been represented, so the Minister has probably heard of it on Fridays at Farellis. As we know, the tourism industry has been particularly affected by the pandemic. This summer it began to turn. Soon the repayments of the loans taken out will be made. The most serious problem now for making enough money is the shortage of staff, despite the fact that some 18 000 people are enrolled as unemployed in the sector's unemployment insurance fund.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-256	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Hartzell, for this important question! We need to ensure that people who are now unemployed and ready to enter the labour market receive the support they need. Then we need to ensure that there is a wide range of measures and actions for this purpose. In the budget for next year, we want to invest an additional EUR 2 1⁄2 billion. It is precisely about ensuring that more people receive labour market training that both gives the employer the skills needed to develop their business and also gives the unemployed a way into work. We are now making sure to develop opportunities for local job tracks, which I would certainly recommend more, also in Gothenburg. We are introducing start-up jobs according to a proposal from the parties on the Swedish labour market. With several important efforts, we need to make sure that the match works much better, that it goes faster and that it is of a higher quality. That is the objective of our policy.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-260	Madam President, I would like The question was about rapid action, and it is those who are with the unemployment fund right now that it is about. It is about restaurant owners who have sold their houses and are soon in danger of going down, so it is quick action that is needed. The minister has my name, so she is happy to e-mail the suggestions to me and so I will pass them on to the restaurant owners in Gothenburg.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-262	Madam President, I would like I just want to underline the importance of the local power. I recently visited Haninge Municipality, where local job tracks have been introduced. In this case, I met an employer in the construction industry who needs demolition workers, and I also met Zaim who, thanks to this local job track, is now training to get a job at Mattias. So it is possible, and it is important that we use all possible means and that we cooperate locally to increase matching and ensure that employers can employ.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-265	Madam President, I would like During the spring, a number of reports showed that many assessments made by Försäkringskassan have been appealed and received a different assessment by the Administrative Court of Appeal. Among other things, it is that it has required visible, objective findings in psychiatric diagnoses and pain diagnosis, for example, in order to receive sickness benefit while several judgments indicate that it should not be necessary because it can be very complex and difficult in this type of problem. Since the legal situation is uncertain, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and several lawyers now require the Supreme Administrative Court to decide the matter. However, I believe that there have been major shortcomings in government governance that have been able to lead to this enormous uncertainty, which has since been able to lead to incorrect insurance for people with psychiatric problems, among other things. I would therefore like to ask Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi whether the government will take the initiative to investigate what has gone wrong in the process of these assessments so that we can have a clearer governance and a clearer regulatory framework for assessing this type of diagnosis in order to increase legal certainty and it cannot be reasonable to require this type of visible, objective finding.
i-MSufDRfESxPDu7hJ3D6Zdz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! It is important that this issue is raised in this House, because we have had serious shortcomings in social security that have affected our citizens in a way that cannot be accepted. We have an obligation to correct those errors. The most important step is to amend the legislation, and those proposals are on Parliament's table in the budget bill. I very much hope that this House will allow these legislative changes to be made so that we can have social security that offers security to our citizens. But of course we must also continue to work with the development and governance of Försäkringskassan but also evaluation of how health insurance matters are handled at Försäkringskassan. Statskontoret also has an important task in this, where the Social Insurance Fund's own processes are monitored and evaluated. It provides support to the government in the continued governance of Försäkringskassan. This is a serious situation we have behind us. There's no doubt about it. Government and parliament have a duty to do what we can to provide our citizens with financial security in the event of illness.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-272	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is a good thing that the government, under many pressure from the opposition, is now producing various types of legislative changes, and I fully support them. Unfortunately, however, these legislative changes do not address the problem of this particular type of diagnosis, i.e. psychiatric diagnoses and pain problems, where there is a very uncertain legal situation at the moment and where it has been required to be able to demonstrate in a visible way that, for example, you are depressed in order to receive sickness benefit. Does Minister Ardalan Shekarabi consider this reasonable?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-274	Madam President, I would like No, the shortcomings we have in health insurance are not reasonable and cannot be accepted by us. That's why we have to work on changing the regulatory framework. That is why we must continue to change the governance of Försäkringskassan. That is why we need a development that puts people's needs at the heart of social security. And the incitement that we've had on humans must stop. That's why the law has to be changed. We do not get away from the fact that the amendment of the law is nevertheless crucial, even if more needs to be done in terms of evaluation and review of our authorities as well.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-276	Madam President, I would like Leaving a violent relationship is one of the most dangerous things a woman can do. In 2020, 17 women were killed by a man they had a relationship with. During 2021, six women have so far died for the same reason. 11,000 people live with some form of protected identity today, and about 800 women live hidden. Life that's hidden is not a choice of free will. The women have fallen in love with the wrong person and then chose to leave that man. But the concessions they are forced to make are absolutely horrible. They get up from their everyday lives, they have to take the children with them and cut ties with family, friends and everyday life and they have to hide, sometimes for the rest of their lives, even though they have done nothing. Then it turns out that their address can be revealed by an authority — a double punishment; the state gives and the state takes — which says it hardly wants or can change this situation.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that question. I believe that we are all appalled by the simplicity with which data have been traced, and it is extremely urgent to overcome the changes that will be required to overcome the situation. In the past, we have given mandates to public authorities in all the functions and authorities that meet people living with protected data to get better training and better skills in not revealing information by mistake. It has been a situation that has been highlighted in many different contexts. So these are missions that have been given and that I hope will improve the situation. As far as the post office is concerned, I see that we are preparing within the Government Office what can be done about this situation and how it should be handled. However, it is not directly under my portfolio, so I would like to come back to the details of it.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It can be noted that with the current safety practices of our authorities, 800 women would need a 24-hour bodyguard. I am grateful that this is being prepared and taken seriously. It is good that the Equality Agency has been given this task, but I would like to return to what I said at the outset: this is not a situation in which women have chosen to put themselves into, but they are forced to do so. The next question is: in what way does the Minister want to increase the safety and freedom of women who live hidden so that they have a normal life and men at the same time are restricted?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-288	Madam President, I would like That is quite right, and that is also why the package of measures that has been presented, which will also come back into the action programme that we will be presenting in the autumn, includes, among other things, making it easier to put a foot-buckle on perpetrators even before an infringement has occurred. We also look at the regulations regarding the prohibition of contact around the common home, and we look at custody situations that we have seen are abused in many cases. So there is a wide range of measures on the way.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-290	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. At the moment, 80.8% are fully vaccinated according to the OECD. It's fantastic, we think. On the other hand, it is a very unequal vaccination in some regions. It is also obvious and something that we must work with, quite clearly. It is about trust, information and accessibility. Many who are now 70-plus, and also those in the age group below, are very hungry, if I may put it that way, on the third shot. Even the age groups under wonder: When is the plan for the third vaccination? It's almost November, and we're gonna minimize the risk of infection. So my question is: what plans are there now to go down in the age groups, at least down to 70-plus, for vaccination?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for a question that I think not only Karin Rågsjö herself asks herself! I understand a lot of people are thinking. Of course, the protection that we have by being vaccinated provides security. This makes you feel protected against severe illness yourself, you know that you are protecting your environment and you help the care to cope with its task and can start handling the delayed care. Dose three is recommended both for people at risk and, as you know, for those over 80 years of age and so on. Throughout the pandemic, we have allowed the Public Health Agency to have an ongoing mission to review who is to be vaccinated, when, at what intervals and with which vaccines. I'm very glad we've let it go. I think it would have been unwise if it had been political decisions, and I also believe that it contributes to the continued high level of vaccination in Sweden. There is a belief that it is not political decisions that are behind it, but that it is actually facts and evidence. As soon as there is new news, we will give it to them.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-299	Madam President, I would like I'm glad to hear that. I, too, do not think that these should be political decisions. On the other hand, it is perhaps a good idea to think about the issue. A lot of people are wondering. Another issue where the state might have to go in and be a little clearer is the unequal vaccination in the regions. We can see this here in the Stockholm region when we compare how it looks at Järvafältet, in Södertälje and in the inner city, for example. I know that the government has made a number of efforts. But how can we, excuse the expression, whip the regions a little more?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-301	Madam President, I would like The unequal vaccination is also of great concern to me. It is not enough for us to sum up up up to 80 – 85 percent if there are parts of society that have a significantly lower vaccination rate. Only today I had a meeting with our representatives in Värmland. They were very consistent that there is no way of blaming the fact that there is a certain composition of the population. It is clear that 90 per cent vaccination coverage can be achieved, which is the case in the municipalities of Värmland. I'm thinking more people can do it. It is very much about will, insight and not giving up.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-304	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a clear strategy to reduce human suffering and the major negative social consequences of alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling, which are abbreviated ANDTS. Before the summer, a majority in the Parliament, on a proposal from us Christian Democrats, gave the government back homework when their strategy for a new ANDTS strategy was poor. The government was invited to return immediately with proposals for an improved strategy. A number of announcements were also received, including the establishment of a National Skills Centre forANDTS Prevention. It's been four months now. The government has not yet come back on this issue. Nor did the government provide any resources to the ANDTS area in its budget. We Christian Democrats prioritise differently and allocate SEK 70 million per year, for example, to a national competence centre.
i-E47YepXEWnopnR9kAGeCJQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! It would have been easier if the same Parliament had talked about what it was dissatisfied with when it came to the ANDTS strategy and had not just said: For various reasons we think that the government could have done better. It makes it much harder. But of course we're working on it. We'll get back to you. Pia Steensland can devote her supplementary question to reflecting on the fact that the Christian Democrats' cooperation party, the Moderates, is currently holding a working consensus that they want to challenge Systembolaget and that we should have more of alcohol in society. They want to decriminalise their own use of drugs and also trivialise tobacco use by saying that we should distinguish between tobacco and snuff in different contexts. When you bring together the different aspects that exist at ANDTS in parts of the Swedish parliament, it is difficult to see a clear pattern of how to return and satisfy a majority in the Swedish parliament.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-310	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to talk about any other party. We are discussing the government's policy in this area, and I am happy to support the Christian Democrats' policy. In fact, I do not think that Parliament was very unclear. But now we can focus on the national competence centre for prevention. It is extremely important that those who work with these methods know what methods are to be used, when and in what way. Prevention is difficult, and national leadership is needed. Is the government willing to set up a national competence centre?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-312	Madam President, I would like If the Christian Democrats' only objection to the ANDTS strategy was that there was no national support for municipalities and regions in their work, I think we can meet on this issue.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-314	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. The school is Sweden's most important and largest workplace, and the teaching profession is the most important profession in society. The other day the Teachers' Association presented a very worrying report on threats and violence and shortcomings in the working environment. More than a third of primary and secondary teachers had been exposed to threats and violence. The survey also revealed that the employer does not always report or investigate threats and violence. You also don't know if there is any consequence when you report. The last thing that was mentioned was that you don't even know if the employer goes ahead and reports it to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. My question to the Minister for Labour is whether she and the Government see a need to tighten up the legislation on health and safety at work and the requirements towards the principals.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-317	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for this important issue of threats and violence and how we can ensure that no one has to be subjected to threats and violence in his work. The government has taken a number of measures that show that we are prepared to do what is necessary to ensure a safe and good working environment. We have strengthened protection, especially for civil servants. We have set up an investigation looking at enhanced protection for socially important occupational groups. The teachers are such, extremely important, group. We are also looking at the possibility of protecting personal data and extending it to more professions. I am not ruling out more measures I will take note with great interest of the report referred to by Roger Haddad. I have not read it myself yet, but of course I will.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-320	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. We do not only have general problems with lack of studies, which affect students. Threats and physical violence do not only apply from students. Even guardians go after the school staff. That is totally unacceptable. Last time the Swedish Work Environment Authority did a major review of the work environment within the school system was 2016. Is the government prepared to decide on a new in-depth study to get a better and updated situational picture of the work environment within the school?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-323	Madam President, I would like My answer is yes. We are always prepared to look at how we can strengthen the work environment. I can also inform Roger Haddad that the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which implements supervision, during the period running until 2021, i.e. also this year, has made special targeted efforts and inspections in situations and has focused on the workplaces where threats and violence occur. Based on the serious situation we are seeing, the government has also provided more resources to expand controls and to secure and strengthen protection.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-326	Madam President, I would like More and more people are now raising the voice for higher pensions. But if we are to succeed in creating security for all older people, we need to see the class and gender injustices in the system and do something about them. Women are more likely to have lower pensions. It is more common to suffer from illness if you have short education or work in heavy occupations. Therefore, the trade unions run the issue of Britt-Marie pension or knegar pension. In Denmark and Germany, the systems are changing. It is now looking at the possibility for those who have worked a long time in difficult occupations to leave their professional life a little earlier without losing financial security. My question to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi is: In what way does the government work to prevent those who do not have the ability to work all the way to retirement without losing financial security?
i-5MV3DH1dMfPCR4VooefmHA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Vepsä! First of all, let me say that I am delighted to hear the word class in this House and to take up the class perspective of the pension system. We must reduce inequality in the pension system and increase the security of people working with the body. The proposal for a pension is now on Parliament's table. I want financial security for those who have worn themselves out. We should have specific rules that mean that people over the age of 60 should not be forced to withdraw their old-age pension early, but should receive financial security in the form of a security pension. Those who are ill, those who are worn out and those who suffer an occupational injury after the age of 60 should never have to take their old-age pension early. There must be financial security. We stand by our proposal. Now it is on the table of the Riksdag, and we follow closely how the parliamentary parties relate to this important proposal for Swedish workers.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-332	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This autumn, Parliament will decide on an alternative to the budget. In what way, does the Government believe, would a moderate draft budget deal with the issue of security for those who have had a long and tedious working life?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-333	Madam President, I would like I can honestly say that I feel sorrow when I read some of the proposals made in the area of social security. Not everyone is an academic, Madam President. There are quite a few people in our country who start working with the body when they are 17 – 18 years old, and many of them are worn out when they are 60 – 62 years old. I hope that more parties will take in this truth.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-334	I would like to remind everyone that Question Time is about the duties of the Ministers of State.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-336	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reminding me! The government has promised voters the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Now we have the fourth highest. In order to ensure prosperity and our well-being, more people in Sweden need to contribute. Almost 700 000 foreign born cannot support themselves today. These problems are structural. Yesterday, the economist and professor Johan Eklund stated that these problems are not even being addressed or are about to be resolved in the Government's budget. I therefore wonder, and address myself specifically to the Minister for Labour, what the government is doing to increase the level of self-sufficiency. We need to increase incentives to go to work instead of living on benefits.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-339	Madam President, I would like I thank Ida Drougge for the question. The government's policy is clear. Everyone who can work should work. The task of politics is to provide people with the necessary support to get to work but also to make demands on people to make an effort and attend an education so that they can also take the jobs that exist and that are emerging in the Swedish labour market. Unfortunately, we see a complete lack of idea on the part of the Moderates. The only thing proposed by them is to make people poorer. But, Madam President, that is not how we create new jobs.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-341	Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister for Labour is prepared to investigate that we in Sweden should have a self-sufficiency target. The ceiling for grants is another proposal that would contribute to this very thing.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-342	Madam President, I would like That is exactly what I was referring to in my reply. The Moderates are completely inconspicuous when it comes to getting people into work faster. It's all about making people poor. But we don't create any more jobs by making people poor. The only thing that happens is that people are getting poorer and the gaps are increasing. It is not the kind of society that we Social Democrats want. We want a society where everyone who can work will work. That is why we invest a lot of resources, come up with reforms and provide support. We also make demands on people to work.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-344	Madam President, I would like Sweden is the worst in the Nordic countries in terms of the number of people employed. We have a significantly smaller government health and safety budget and fewer inspectors than our neighbours. And we have not lived up for many years to the international demands on the working environment that exist. According to the UN's ILO work organisation, there should be one inspector per 10,000 workers. With over 5 million employed, the number of inspectors should be over 500. Today we have around 300 and are far from the target. We're the only country in the Nordic countries that can't make it. After almost eight years with the Social Democratically Supported Government, which claims to protect Swedish employees and their working environment, this must nevertheless be seen as a major failure. I would therefore like to put my question to Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark: how is the government going to achieve the ILO's objectives and at the same time be credible about its own adopted occupational health and safety strategy?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-347	Madam President, I would like I welcome Magnus Persson's commitment to the work environment. It is certainly not symptomatic of the party he represents. Let us look at what happened during the alliance period when the Swedish Democrats supported budgets. Every time the Swedish Democrats have had the opportunity, they have slaughtered the resources for health and safety policy. This government has contributed approximately SEK 100 million each year, and we continue to invest money in the Swedish Work Environment Agency to ensure that more occupational health and safety inspectors are employed. We have also seen this in recent months. However, I would like to do even more. The truth is, however, that as soon as the Swedish democrats have the opportunity, they vote the opposite way. They're putting fog curtains.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-351	Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Labour had endeavoured and looked at the Swedish Democrats' budget, she would have seen that we are spending a considerably larger grant on the Swedish Work Environment Authority than the government does. We have been doing this since 2014. Although the Government claims to have greater ambition for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the increase in the grant is very small. At the same time, it chooses to relocate the agency, which means that the agency loses a huge amount of skilled labour. This has also been flagged by the Director-General. It does not rhyme with what the Minister for Labour says here.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-353	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats speak very well in this House about the working environment and the employees, and they are presenting budgets. But when it comes down to it and they are going to vote, they always vote against what concerns employees' safety and the working environment. Just look at the RSO question! When I wanted to ensure that all regional safety ombudsmen would have access to all companies where there are collective agreements, the Swedish Democrats voted against an entirely life-threatening institution that the regional safety ombudsmen constitute. Up to proof in the forthcoming votes!
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-356	Madam President, I would like I turn to Lena Hallengren, who represents horizontal issues for the government. Equality is a word of honor. However, it does not always mean giving exactly the same to everyone. Those who are in a worse position may need more help to get to the same level as others. A well-developed infrastructure provides the conditions for a region to develop, for people to commute in and out and for companies to transport their products and obtain spare parts. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of inequality in terms of infrastructure. Our county, Kalmar County, has for at least 20 years received the lowest allocation in relation to the population to maintain roads, railways and so on. Our county's company thus has a more difficult competitive position vis-à-vis the rest of Sweden. Now the region has made a procurement of electric and battery powered trains and is ready to invest billions to adapt the Stångådalsbanan. Is the government prepared to provide equal opportunities for the whole country?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the question! Equality is probably never to do the same in principle. I just want to underline that. It's usually misunderstood. Some people talk about equality and say, "You want everyone to have the same thing." No, that's exactly what's not the point. Of course you can make a transfer on infrastructure. For me it is very often about welfare, but there are of course other parallels to draw. When it comes to specific infrastructure issues, such as the investments to be made, I believe that Gudrun Brunegård has a very strong understanding that the Minister for Infrastructure is working both on the national plan and on travelling around. There is a great deal of ground work and decisions will be taken in this House. I will not interfere in this work any more than when the government takes joint decisions. However, on the subject of day-to-day work and the concrete issue, I should like to refer to the Minister for Infrastructure.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-364	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have mentioned in their transport policy exercise the importance of testing new forms of operation in order to escape fossil fuel dependence on smaller railways where trains today run on diesel. We mention both regional routes where hydrogen operation is to be tested and Stångådalsbanan which is planning for a bimodal operation with partial electricity and in between battery operation. Is the government prepared to support such pilot projects?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-366	Madam President, I would like If we are to meet the climate targets and be able to leave the fossil society behind, transport will be very crucial. Changes, restructuring and development will be needed throughout the country. This applies in Kalmar County as well as in other parts of the country and both on road and rail. I believe that the specific questions that Gudrun Brunegård has are once again best placed to put to the Minister for Infrastructure.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-368	Madam President, I would like Every year, an average of 15 women in Sweden are murdered by their current or former partner. Women are most vulnerable when they are about to leave or have just left a relationship. Those who have left a relationship are sometimes forced to live under protected identity because of the threat to them. The Swedish Tax Agency has as one of its tasks to handle mail for persons living with protected identity. This week it was revealed that there are major shortcomings in the Swedish Tax Agency's procedures for handling postal items. A reporter tested sending packages of GPS transmitters to track women to three women living with protected personal data. All packages passed through the Swedish Tax Agency's security equipment and were delivered to the women's secret housing addresses without any problems. What does Minister Stenevi, who is responsible for the national gender equality goals involving men's violence against women, intend to do to ensure that the place where women who often live under threat are not exposed due to shortcomings in the Swedish Tax Agency?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-372	Madam President, I would like Stopping men's violence against women, violence in close relations and honour-related violence and repression is an extremely high priority for the government. That is why we have also presented the comprehensive 40-point package that is also intended to be part of the action programme that will be presented later in the autumn. It includes a number of measures to keep women protected even when they need to leave a destructive relationship. We have given orders that those who meet the women should have the right skills both to ask the right questions and thus be able to offer the right help and not to disclose information about women living with protected identity. The IRS isn't under my briefcase. I must therefore ask to come back to the specific issue. On the other hand, I can guarantee that the government is prepared to do everything possible to protect the women who are forced to live with protected personal data and do everything possible to ensure that it is the perpetrators who are to be limited rather than the victims.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-375	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. At the same time, we have an emergency situation in which we have very many women in the country who are sitting and afraid of having their address revealed. Urgent action is needed to address the deficiencies within the Swedish Tax Agency. This is not a new issue that has arisen in modern times. It's been known for five years. What do you intend to do in the emergency? Are you ready to take action quickly on this issue?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-378	Madam President, I would like We are absolutely prepared to take action. It is extremely important that those who live with protected personal data should not have their data disclosed. At the same time, the mail service must also work for those people. We have also seen other types of problems in the management that need to be addressed, such as when mail does not arrive and can thus be payment notes and other concerns. This is a hugely important issue. We are absolutely prepared to take action. But I cannot now answer what. We need to come back to that, but thank you for the question.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-381	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Housing Märta Stenevi. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her social commitment, not least all the meetings she had with people from the Järva field, where I also live. It's much appreciated. An important part of the housing minister's mission is that ordinary people with regular income have somewhere to live. In Stockholm, parts of the stock of dwellings with reasonable rents are sold out.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Österberg, for the question! The fact that more people have access to housing is an extremely high priority. It is also gratifying to see that we have had such a great change. After the eight years of the alliance government where we basically built nothing at all, we now have a building act which means that we are not only building up with population growth, but also beginning to build away housing debt piece by piece. Now the challenge is to keep the building act up. Investment aid, which Moderates and Christian Democrats slaughter each time they are given the opportunity, has been absolutely crucial to this situation. Investment aid is very important, and they need to benefit those parts of the country where they are most useful. However, there are currently no plans to impose other conditions on investment aid. The conditions currently laid down are that some of the dwellings are folded precisely to people who find it difficult to enter the housing market or to young people. This is how investment aid is designed. We have seen that it has brought good benefits and also has increased housing in the public utility population over the last three years.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-388	Madam President, I would like In my hometown, in our hometown, Stockholm, the housing shortage is acute. Here the Moderates and their support parties sell out the commons. How does the Minister view these sales?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-389	Madam President, I would like Local government is a municipal matter. It is not primarily governed by this House, but by the municipal councils that run the respective municipalities. I note, however, when I look at the statistics that it is gratifying to see that sales in the public good have fallen sharply in recent years, while construction in the public good has increased. As a result, the number of dwellings in the common good has increased over the last three years in a row. I'm very happy for that development.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-391	Madam President, I would like I have a general political question. In order to be allowed to conduct economic activities with dogs, such as dog dog breeding or dog day care, permission from the County Administrative Board is required. For these permits, the Stockholm County Administrative Board currently has a processing period of seven to twelve months. There are entrepreneurs who applied for a permit last year and who are still waiting. The vast majority who start companies in this business are enthusiasts who love dogs. They now have to wait almost a year to start their business while demand is greater than ever. A description of the premises must also be included in the application to the County Administrative Board. This means that some people have to bear the costs of premises throughout the processing period before the operation can begin. Today's long permit processes risk leading to many simply refraining from starting that business. It is deeply unfortunate both for the individual and for our growth. It should not take a year to find out whether you are allowed to do dog day care or not.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-397	Let me remind you that these are horizontal general policy issues, which I initially notified.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Madam President, for emphasising that. I have a dog myself. I can see why it's frustrating for the one who's waiting. I really must ask Magdalena Schröder to put that question to the responsible Minister. Whether it is a business where someone wants to start a dog day care or any other activity, it is clear that the management of all forms of permission and the administration required for permission should proceed as soon as possible. We cannot take any other view. I cannot answer Magdalena Schröder's question about what is being done in this area and what it actually looks like.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-401	Madam President, I would like This is about whether it should be easy or difficult to start and run companies in Sweden. The Minister for Labour said in a previous post that everyone who can work will work. These are entrepreneurs who have found a way to support themselves who now have to wait a year to get permission and know if they are allowed to go out with other people's dogs or not. Does the government think it is reasonable that it should be so difficult to start a business in Sweden?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-404	Madam President, I would like If the question is whether it should be difficult to start a business in Sweden, we obviously do not think so, just as the Minister for Labour described earlier. What is the reason why it is precisely in the activity described by Magdalena Schröder that it would be more difficult to obtain a permit, I cannot answer. We are anxious to have at least the necessary permits to operate where we may leave our dogs, our family members, during the daytime. I recommend that Magdalena Schröder put the question to the responsible Minister.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-407	Madam President, I would like Sweden is full. Despite all kinds of measures, we have a non-functioning integration that is cutting our tax money while our country is breaking down. Already strained municipalities are forced in various ways to take responsibility for the state's failed immigration policy. The focus and interest of a newcomer should reasonably be to learn the language, culture and values of our country as soon as possible in order to quickly become part of our society and make themselves employable. But it often takes a long time, if at all, for self-sufficiency to become a reality.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-410	Madam President, I would like I would say that one of the most important freedom reforms I see, not least as Minister for Equal Opportunities, is that all people have the opportunity to support themselves and stand on their own feet. In very many cases, the path to self-sufficiency through employment and introductions goes into society. It is extremely important that we can offer this to everyone who has come to and settled in our country, and the government has made a wide range of efforts in the field of labour market policy to make it easier and faster for everyone who lives and works in Sweden to stand on their own feet and have their own income – and the freedom that comes with it.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. At the same time, it is absolutely clear that the government cannot do this. We have too much immigration in our country, and in many cases the government chooses to place the responsibility in the hands of the municipalities – which are already heavily strained and do not actually have any part in the government's policies in this area.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-413	Madam President, I would like It is unclear whether there was a question hidden in it, but I can see that more and more people are getting into work more and more quickly. More and more people are in employment, and we have a very high employment rate. This applies not least to foreign-born women when we compare with other European countries, where very many foreign-born women are, instead, completely excluded from the labour market. This is extremely positive, and it has happened during a period in which we have had a great deal of reception. We have done just fine. It is too slow, but progress is moving in the right direction and more and more people are getting to work.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-416	Madam President, I would like The Government has agreed with the parties on the Swedish labour market to create start-up jobs. It is a type of subsidised employment that should be combined with training. Establishment jobs should be easy for employers to manage and contribute to the supply of skills. The aim is also to create a long-term establishment in the labour market. We need many different efforts to improve the entry of newcomers into the labour market and to combat long-term unemployment, which has now increased in the wake of the pandemic. Setting up jobs are an important part. My question to the Minister for Labour is therefore: how is the work of getting the start-up jobs in place, and when will the parties be able to start signing contracts?
i-HEre4ndrX7Pa9mXNaVHUS1	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Johanna Haraldsson! Establishment jobs are a completely new model and a completely new way of stimulating the permanent establishment of long-term unemployed and newcomers. The government has now submitted what is commonly called a form of prior notification to the European Commission, as this is also associated with state aid rules. The idea is that it should be very cheap and easy for the employer to hire; it will be about 8 400 SEK per month, and at the same time the state will replace the individual up to the level that applies according to collective agreements. The plan is for this to be in place in the first half of 2022, and we also indicate this in the budget bill. Then I see great opportunities for all employers who sign the sectoral collective agreements on which the conditions are based to actually give the opportunity for more new arrivals and the long-term unemployed to have this permanent establishment.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-420	Madam President, I would like It is extremely gratifying that we will soon be able to have this in place. But then it is also important that the parties are on track and that the agreements are actually signed in order for the long-term unemployed and newcomers to be able to find a job of establishment. Once the EU has approved this, as we hope they will, and the parties have signed agreements – how many will be able to get an establishment job?
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that question. It will depend very much on how many people come into this measure, and it will depend very much on the sectoral agreements that are signed. We have budgeted for 10 000 in the budget, but I hope that this will be a problem for me – that I will have to fight for even more resources for the start-up jobs. I see great opportunities both for employers to meet skills needs in their businesses and for the long-term unemployed and newcomers to get into permanent work.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-424	Madam President, I would like The situation in state youth homes remains strained. Sis has a complicated mission – they should care for young people who, for example, have psychosocial problems, but they should also care for serious criminal youths. Today, young people have access to tablets and mobile phones with which to plan riots, buy drugs and plan release plans. The fact that, for example, a girl who is placed on Sis due to the need for care should have access to her phone in order to be able to have contact with her family is reasonable, but that criminal youths – who might actually be under the wing of the prison – have access to tablets, phones and the internet, and thus have full control of their environment, is actually quite bad.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-427	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a most relevant question, Linda Lindberg! On the one hand, what Linda Lindberg says is that in the state's institutional housing there are both people who are cared for for addiction and psychosocial problems and people who are convicted and serving their sentence there. In any case, the staff have the opportunity and, I would say, the obligation to make an individual assessment: is this an individual who should have access to technical equipment such as mobile phones, iPads or computers? In what form should the individual have it, and when should the individual have it? You need to make a new decision every two weeks, which I know the authority would be happy to get away from so that you didn't have to do that paperwork every two weeks. However, I would like to stress that staff must take that responsibility and carry out that test. It should not be possible to order drugs, plan criminal activities or maintain a criminal network.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-430	Madam President, I would like In fact, you can plan escapes and buy drugs. You can also direct other young people who are outside the home to commit criminal acts. It's bad. It's bad. The Director-General of Sis last mentioned in our discussion that the situation is difficult and burdensome for staff to deal with. It is seen that the need to limit access, but it also has the law to deal with. Once again, this is an urgent matter, and I would like to see the Minister of Social Affairs look at whether it is possible to make things easier for Sis staff.
i-1495cea5eaf20b62-432	Madam President, I would like I agree that the issue needs to be reviewed and that it needs to be simpler for Sis staff. However, I would also like to say that it is not impossible but rather that it is the duty of the staff to make this individual assessment. Today, it cannot be said that it is not possible to suspend access to various forms of electronic communication for young people who are staying, being placed or serving a sentence on the various dwellings of the National Board of Institutional Affairs. As the law stands, you may then review every two weeks; that is the obligation.
