i-2a00eff84ce04676-0	Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome back to Parliament! It feels great to welcome you here on the threshold of the Fourth Parliamentary Session this parliamentary term. We have yet another very special year of work behind us, largely characterised by the pandemic. Although we knew that it was not entirely over a year ago, I think there were many of us who hoped that a clearer turn was coming. That's not what happened. Instead, we had another parliamentary year with a reduced number of members in votes and committee work to a large extent remotely. But hopefully we are now beginning to move back towards more normal forms of work. A clear sign of this is that all 349 members will attend the opening of the Parliamentary Session this afternoon. I think it is urgent that all Members of Parliament and of the Government be able to attend this solemn and important ceremony, especially as this is the last opening of this parliamentary term. On the other hand, there is no roll-call this morning, and we are taking the precaution that more than a third of the Members and Ministers of State may sit in the gallery during the ceremony. The arrangements were decided by me after discussion with the group leaders and the Vice-Presidents at the beginning of August, long before it was decided that all Members could participate in votes after the opening of the Parliamentary Session. I saw no reason to start changing the planning for the opening of the Parliamentary Session at short notice, so on this particular day not all Members are allowed to sit down on the floor here in the Chamber. M a from the first vote of the Parliamentary Session each sits in its place and votes again in the usual way. Even if the pandemic is not over, the situation in Sweden is still quite different now than a year ago. That is why we – the President's Bureau and the group leaders – have judged that it is possible to gather more people than last year but still far fewer than a regular year. We have tried to find the best possible balance between the necessary security measures, the rules of the parliamentary order and respect for tradition. As you know, the usual reception in the Connectivity Line is cancelled, and there is no concert at Konserthuset. The party performance on the occasion of the democracy anniversary scheduled for today is moved to 10 January. The reason we chose that day is that, on January 10, 1922, the first five women MPs entered Parliament after the historic elections in 1921. Kerstin Hesselgren took as a single woman place in the first chamber while Elisabeth Tamm, Bertha Wellin, Agda Östlund and Nelly Thüring were elected into the second chamber. I am pleased that we will also be helped to remember these predecessors and role models by giving them a permanent place on Riksplan in the form of a statue. Here it is added that a painting depicting these five pioneers will be inaugurated in the stairwell of the Eastern Parliament. The statue will take a while – it will be inaugurated next year – but already this evening, on the day of the opening of the Parliamentary Session, this festival of democracy, Parliament wants to pay attention to the democracy anniversary by lighting up Stockholm Night with a light play. I will be lighting a facade lighting at the Eastern Parliament building at a webcast ceremony at 20 o'clock. The light play can then be seen every night until September 20. But the celebration of democracy does not end there. What's better for UN Democracy Day on September 15 than celebrating with a seminar? Tomorrow, Parliament and the Government will organise the seminar 100 years of democracy – what lessons do we take with us? Please see it at riksdagen.se! In September, we are not only celebrating the breakthrough of democracy in Sweden. We also honour the memory of Dag Hammarskjöld – the UN Secretary General who died 60 years ago, the night between 17 and 18 September 1961. He was, as you know, on a UN mission to try to mediate peace in Congo when his aircraft crashed near Ndola airport in northern Rhodesia, now Zambia. On 22 September, we will organise a seminar in collaboration with Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund, entitled The Role of Officials – a national and international matter. After the opening of the Parliamentary Session, I think we are all looking forward to a new year of work in Parliament under somewhat more normal forms. As you all know, I have, together with the group leaders, reached a new agreement on the forms of work in the autumn, and the group leaders have also decided not to extend the agreement on 55 Members present at voting time. All Members can therefore take part in the votes, but we retain the possibility of taking part remotely in the meetings of the committees. Each committee decides when it is justified to hold physical meetings, and when it participates physically we plan to keep distance. However, we will continue to help keep the number of external visits to Parliament's house down. External audiences at various events should be avoided as well as guided tours and mingle situations. Pandemine's not over. We continue to adapt our operations when and if necessary, but hopefully we are moving towards a more normal situation. Ladies and gentlemen! This has been a mandate like no one else. I do not think anyone could have foreseen the many different, unexpected and partly dramatic events that have taken place. I am, of course, thinking primarily of the pandemic and all its consequences, but also of the two formations of governments. And then there is still a whole year left of the term of office. I think we can all look forward to another eventful and exciting parliamentary year until the elections. We know, in any case, that at the beginning of November there will be the third formation of government during this term of office. Regardless of how you look at the political situation, I would like to point out, on the subject of democracy, that the formation of governments has not meant a crisis for democracy. Swedish democracy stands strong, and it is worth celebrating. All actors in government formation processes have used the various tools available in the democratic parliamentary toolbox. The vote of censure, the decision not to call extraordinary elections and the round of Presidents – all of this follows from the laws that we have created for our democracy. It may be turbulent in some respects, but it follows the rules of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to finish with a few lines out the poem Summer in Sweden by Werner Aspenström. It beautifully depicts the melancholy and beauty as summer comes to an end. Then, on my hand, lands the thought of corruption that we call dragonfly. A yellow leaf disintegrates and falls loudly to the ground. Summer must be quickly salvaged. ...for autumn is approaching with top fire in the aspen. Let me now wish you a fine autumn and a productive year of work. See you in this Chamber at 2 p.m.
