i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1	Madam President, I would like Last Friday there was school attendance and a student at home in Kristianstad. Everything was a little different because of the pandemic, but the confidence and joy of the future were the same as always. Or was it? Unfortunately, the answer is no, not for everyone. While nine out of ten of the students born here in Sweden are doing well in school and are eligible for upper secondary school, school results are falling steadily for children born in another country. As many as four out of ten of them leave nine without upper secondary school qualifications. It is not easy to cope with schoolwork when you have problems with the language, when your parents are having a tough time, and when you live in tight and low economic conditions. Of households made up of cohabiting with dependent children, parents are born abroad in over 90 per cent of cases. Lifelong dependency on benefits and economic exclusion have spread. Half of those who have come here since 1990 have not become self-sufficient. The difference in unemployment between Swedish-born and foreign-born has never been greater. In addition, too many young people live under what is called honorary standards but which have nothing to do with honor. It has to do with violence and oppression. Many are lured into crime, with their own and others' lives as their input. All of this reflects our terrible failure with integration, which crushes the dreams, which affects those children who cannot or cannot exploit their full potential and grow up to be their very best self and who affect those women who, while having escaped war and unrest, are not given the opportunity to enjoy the freedom and equality that should be a matter of course for everyone who calls Sweden their home. Madam President, I would like It's a gloomy picture I'm painting. And I know that there are many brilliant exceptions that quickly become part of Sweden, often thanks to civil society and sport, that make invaluable efforts for integration. Here is the woman who challenged her homeland's structures and was forced to flee and who now works as an engineer. Here are the parents who borrowed for a ticket across the Mediterranean to save the lives of their children and who now run their own restaurant. Here is the young man who has been persecuted because he was committed to human rights and is now working to help others. They have all been protected in Sweden. And we have a duty to protect and help. We will take our share of responsibility for people who are on the run in a broken world. I am proud that we have done the same. But we have a lot of things we can't be proud of. It is actually inhumane to receive so many when you cannot cope with integration and when those who come here are only allowed to cross national boundaries but never get into society for real. Those who call themselves humane want to open the borders but turn a blind eye to the consequences. And in Sweden of blinders, exclusion and hopelessness flourish. Anyone who really sees the problems of integration comes to the conclusion that we actually have a duty on all those who have come here to stay, but also on all of us who live here, to reduce immigration so that we can create the conditions for good integration. In the last ten years, Sweden has received half a million asylum seekers. And in practice, we have done it completely without a plan for how integration should work. High levels of immigration combined with inadequate integration have created deep exclusion in too many parts of Sweden. I am convinced that it is possible to reverse developments and to eradicate the failure to integrate. It will require many and strong efforts for better integration, but it will also require a significant reduction in immigration for a long time to come. That's why we Moderates entered the Migration Committee with proposals for volume targets for reducing immigration to Nordic levels – to put an end to the patching and repairing, to get a long-term policy and to reverse the integration crisis. That is why we proposed an alien law at an absolute minimum level, with clear requirements for knowledge of Swedish and Swedish society in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. That is why we sat day in and day in and negotiated – to put an end to a twitchy migration policy that constantly bends new holes and creates new exceptions. We thought the conditions were good. Exactly two years earlier, the Social Democrats had promised voters a tight policy. They said that the temporary law would remain in place until the new EU policy came into place. We should have understood better than to believe that the Social Democrats are a party that runs the policy they claim to stand for. Shortly after the formation of the government, the relaxation began, and when the negotiations in the Migration Committee entered a critical phase, it turned out that the Social Democrats could not even support an objective of reducing immigration. And then there were six of us in the EU in terms of the number of asylum seekers. When the Social Democrats finally announced that they did not want to reduce immigration, the Committee's work ended in a very limited proposal. All the proposals that would be needed in addition to the Aliens Act and that we and the secretariat worked on during the year were thrown into the trash. It was about strengthening return, it was about volume targets and it was about qualification for welfare. It remained a watered-down proposal which would lead to the same level of immigration as it was then. That was bad. It was irresponsible. But even that policy, which the Social Democrats supported last summer, could not stand by. Every time Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson has called a press conference, he has presented new proposals for relief compared to the Committee's proposals. So immigration should not remain at the same levels, but it should increase considerably, even though Morgan Johansson told the DN as late as 12 August last year that the possibility of moving in relation to the report is very, very little. But you haven't moved very, very little when you propose the most extensive new foundation for adults without protection reasons to stay. You've moved very, very far. Gone are the fair promises. Gone are the memories of autumn 2015, when Sweden's reception collapsed. Gone is the responsibility of those who are stuck in the red-green alienation. When Morgan Johansson received the Migration Committee's report last summer, he said: You know that the law will enter into force on 20 July. This means that we have to finish the legislative work at the beginning of next year. I see no danger in that timetable. Yet he sent the bill to Parliament long after the deadline and less than three months before the temporary law expired. It is so horribly disrespectful to the legislative process, to the Riksdag and to the voters. The fact that Morgan Johansson has come breathing with the bill at the last moment has made democratic work more difficult in a very serious way. And as poor as Morgan Johansson's respect is for the Riksdag, the bill itself is just as flawed. Morgan Johansson will appreciate that, because he has devoted considerable effort to trying to put fog curtains around the proposal. He even managed to fool the trousers of the journalists who came to the press conference when he presented his bill. In his presentation he showed a picture with requirements for Swedish society and knowledge of Swedish society in order for people to receive a permanent residence permit, even though he has just deleted these parts of the bill. But this could not be double-checked, because the proposal was published to the public long after the press conference. So incredibly symptomatic of Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson, who has repeatedly also been convicted by the KU for his constant lies. We are now in this Chamber on 22 June. It's on the day four weeks before a new team has to be in place. What would be a long-term and sustainable policy has turned into an unclear regulatory framework full of holes and gaps. And the expectations that should all be met when they come to Sweden shine with their absence. These are reduced and removed requirements, exceptions that completely undermine the main rules and a completely new basis for adults without protection reasons to stay. This is clearly designed to allow those who do not meet the requirements of the Upper Secondary Education Act to stay anyway. Madam President, I would like The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals want to replace Stefan Löfven. The same parties recognise that immigration must be reduced in order for integration to increase. The same parties also have a majority in the Social Security Committee. There we have gathered and worked day and night for a better proposal. We have prepared, we have referred and we have obtained the opinion of the Law Council. Now we are in this House with a clear alternative to the excessive policy of the government. It does not go as far as we Moderates would like, but it is a proposal that more clearly takes responsibility for Sweden. The members of the Parliament are now facing a very important election: the proposal of the government for increased immigration or the opposition's proposal for a reduction in immigration. If the Center Party votes with the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party, as they have said they should, our proposal lacks a single vote in this House. Thus, despite the fact that a very clear majority of the Swedish people see the problems and demand a reduction in immigration, the committee's proposal for a policy to reduce immigration will be voted down with a single vote. It is because of the betrayal of the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like I would now like to turn to all of you Swedes who live and work abroad and who probably long for home a little extra like this in midsummer times. I know that those of you who want to move home with your family have been badly squeezed because of the temporary law. It has divided your families and made unreasonable demands. That is why we called for the moderates in the Migration Committee's work reliefs for Swedish citizens who want to bring their family back. I am pleased that the Committee listened and that the proposals are today voted through in Parliament. But I also know that more needs to be done, especially in the handling of the Migration Agency. It is a heavy responsibility of the government to ensure that the agency functions more efficiently and cut excessive processing times. I sincerely hope that the government will listen to your calls for help. Madam President, I would like It was in the referendum on Swedish membership of the European Union that I realised that I was moderate. I thought that the Moderates, led by Carl Bildt, were the clearest voice for a Swedish yes to Europe – a yes to openness to the outside world, a yes to free movement and to be heading somewhere. I am concerned about this transparency, and I am concerned about Sweden. However, in order to safeguard transparency, we must have control. Freedom of movement requires regulated immigration. The government has lost control. It risks our openness to the outside world. It risks deeper exclusion and a growing shadow society. Today, the Riksdag has the chance to protect Sweden, protect transparency and help those who will build a new home here to break free from alienation and hopelessness. Madam President, I would like For me, the choice is simple. For Sweden, the choice is crucial. I call for the approval of all the sharp legislative proposals that we have drawn up and where we have also had a majority in committee. These are paragraphs 2 to 5 and paragraphs 7 and 8 of the report. I also support paragraph 18 on identity requirements. I also call for the committee's conditional proposals to be approved, which will be brought up to date if the sharp legislative proposals are not approved in this House. These are paragraphs 19 and 20, 25, 29 and 30. If our proposals do not win approval, this means that this House has failed completely in its duty to adopt a long-term and sustainable policy for reducing immigration. This will require a completely new approach under the leadership of another government. That is why, on condition that our other proposals are rejected, we are calling for the approval of Amendment No 51, which extends the temporary law instead. In addition, I would like to endorse the Moderates' reservation 8. Finally, Madam President, I would just like to say that there has been an intense and very difficult process in committee. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the officials of the Social Security Committee, who have worked hard and intensively to bring this to an end. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the committee for a constructive discussion and handling of these very difficult issues and the difficult process. I wish you all eventually have a calm and pleasant summer, although there are some who are opposed to it right now.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-40	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I had hoped for a slightly different tone from what we were told after all. At the same time, however, I understand that Maria Stenergard is angry because she had never thought that this would go the way at all and that we would produce legislation that could be heard in this Parliament. Yet that is exactly where we are now. At the same time, I would also like to say that I am reacting quite strongly to the total black painting of Sweden that the Moderates and other right-wing parties are now engaged in. It sounded almost at Maria Malmer Stenergard that it was some exception that new arrivals would manage in Sweden. My God, we are just going through a pandemic where 34% of the doctors in Sweden were born in another country, where 39% of the nurses were born in another country and where a very large proportion of the nurses were born in another country. It is to a very large extent these people who are involved in taking Sweden out of this by working on the Swedish labour market. Don't think of it as some kind of exception that immigrants work in Sweden or do well in Sweden, because it really isn't. In addition, you get offended when you hear the right-wing parties all the time talking bad about Sweden. I would like to say that most immigrants living in the vulnerable areas seem to be more proud of Sweden than the parties of the right. As far as integration policy is concerned, I would really like to ask just one question in this context. The Moderates made a custody allowance during their government period, paying women — immigrant women — to stay at home and for their children not to attend preschool. Now there are proposals from KD and SD on just that. That's exactly the same question. Maria Malmer Stenergard wants people to work more, and this goes, of course, against it. That is why my question is: will the Moderates agree to reintroduce a custody allowance that runs counter to all that integration and equality are called?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-46	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I think that the Minister for Migration is trivialising this whole debate when he requests a reply to my main speech on future migration policy and asks a question about custody allowances – which he knows we do not have a proposal on. Can we not discuss migration policy instead, that is, what we are here to discuss? I understand, however, that Morgan Johansson is trying to put out fog curtains; that is somehow his signature. He doesn't want to talk about this proposal, because it's a single sadness from the first to the last letter. The responsibility has been completely surrendered. Morgan Johansson thinks I am blacking out, but I think he had prepared his speech before the debate. I highlighted a number of successful examples of people who have come here, really contributed and come to their right – amazing stories. But it seems that Morgan Johansson does not see the brutal alienation that too many are stuck in. There are many people born abroad in health care, absolutely, but, overall, half of all those who have come here since 1990 have not become self-sufficient. This risks the whole cohesion that the Social Democrats tend to say they are protecting. It will not work, but we need a completely different policy for people to get into society and come to their own. This calls for a series of strong measures to strengthen integration, but we must start by reducing immigration. We have had 500 000 asylum seekers over the last ten years, and far too many of them have not had a real chance of entering society. Morgan Johansson does not seem to want to talk about migration, but he wants to talk about integration. Then tell me, Morgan Johansson : What have the Social Democrats done during their term of office to strengthen integration?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-51	Madam President, I would like I will, of course, come back to the bill in my main speech, but it was indeed Maria Stenergard who raised the issue of integration. That is why I am referring to this. However, it seems to be a sensitive point for the Moderates, because I did not receive an answer from Maria Stenergard. It is that you have introduced a custody allowance on the right every time you have ruled in Sweden, Maria Malmer Stenergard. What does that mean? Well, it means paying immigrants, often women, for them to be at home with their children and for their children not to attend preschool. It goes right against everything that integration is all about, everything that gender equality is all about, and also everything that the work line is about. This is now run by KD and SD, and you are to sit together. That is why my question was precisely: are you going to reintroduce this, in order to impair integration? That's my question. I would like a clear answer from Maria Stenergard. Is a new right-wing government led by the Moderates going to reinstate the custody allowance? Can she guarantee that this will not happen? Actually, that's the answer I want. I do not minimize anything, but I am reacting to the total black painting that Maria Malmer Stenergard actually stands for. It was not that she raised a long list of examples, but rather that she said that there are some exceptions where people who have done well. But I say that it's actually going pretty well for the vast majority who come to Sweden. Maria Malmer Stenergard asks what we have done to improve integration. Yes, during the last parliamentary term we received many asylum seekers, but during the last parliamentary term unemployment also decreased. Social security benefits fell. We got 350 000 new jobs, and Sweden is the country where the population works the most. We have the highest employment rate in the whole of Europe. Government debt decreased by SEK 130 billion during the previous term. So it has not been like the black-painting that we have heard from the right over the years. I would like Maria Stenergard to answer the question. Can she guarantee that she won't be involved in reinventing a custody allowance?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-57	Madam President, I would like I answered the Minister's question quite clearly: the Moderates have no such proposals, and Morgan Johansson knows that. That's what I said. I am beginning to understand, as well, why this completely irresponsible proposal for increased immigration is being put forward. That's because you don't see the problems – because you blindfold. Here you stand and say that you are super satisfied with Swedish unemployment figures. Oh, my God, we're at the bottom of Europe! Only a few countries have higher unemployment rates than we do. Most of them succeed very well," says Morgan Johansson – while we know that half of them are not self-sufficient, ever. It is only if you are satisfied that you can present this proposal, and it is only if you have the blinders on. It is so totally irresponsible if you really care about all those who are stuck in alienation. I am not blacking out; I pay tribute to those who succeed, but I refuse to turn a blind eye to the problems. That is why Sweden needs a new government, which I very much hope we are on our way. I hope for a government that is able to deal with the problems, which sees the young people who never come to their own and who catch the children early when they do not learn the language – a government that ensures that they get the best possible conditions from day one in school and can develop into their very best self here in Sweden. I am not in a position to put any question to Morgan Johansson now, but as I said, it is natural to choose to put forward a proposal of this kind where, on point after point, we have gone away from the electoral promise that we gave the voters in 2018. But it was only voice fishing when it was said that you should have the strictest possible policy until there was a migration policy in place in the EU. It is not in place, but the government is now presenting a very generous policy. It is bad for Sweden, and we intend to change that.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-62	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have talked a lot about Sweden putting its asylum policy in line with the Nordic countries. In other contexts, it has been said that international conventions should not be violated. Denmark has recently dealt with a proposal in Parliament that the person who comes to apply for asylum in Denmark should be expelled directly to another country and that the asylum procedure should be carried out there. However, if there are reasons for asylum, the person must not come to Denmark. This has naturally caused enormous protests around, and is contrary to international conventions. Madam President, I would like My question to Maria Malmer Stenergard is: In the choice between following Denmark and following international conventions, what do the Moderates choose?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-65	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Rasmus Ling! These are rather complex issues, but I think many of us realise that the current regulatory framework is not working. Only a small proportion of those who manage to get to Europe and seek asylum actually have protection reasons, and that means that we spend a great deal of resources on those who do not have protection reasons, while those who are often the most vulnerable remain in refugee camps and never get help. That is why I and the Moderates believe that, in the long term, the regulatory framework must be changed, and we will work for that. We have said that the best thing would be for the EU to jointly establish a system of asylum reception on the other side of the Mediterranean, so that people do not have to put their lives in the hands of refugee smugglers to come here and seek protection. Asylum trials were to be carried out across the Mediterranean and distributed on the basis of quotas in the EU. But there's still a long way to go. I have said that the Danish proposal goes a little in this direction, and I therefore feel sympathy with the Danes. They want to give priority to better and more accurate help for those who really need help. Having said that, we must comply with the international conventions that we are obliged to observe, even if we want to change them in the long term. We have said that we want a volume target at Nordic levels, and it is not a ceiling. Those who come here will have their case tested. What I think one should be very aware of is that Denmark has been exempted from the EU's migration policy, so they have a slightly different situation from us. But even Denmark will probably have practical problems, if nothing else, because few countries want this type of activity on their territory. As I said, I understand the intention of this. We want to help those who need help, and the regulatory framework we now have is really quite unreasonable. It gives priority to those who do not have grounds for protection. However, it is something that the Green Party has consistently chosen to do in its policy, so I understand that we have different views on this.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-70	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard says that these are complex issues. Is it really a complicated question whether or not to comply with international conventions? I think that question should be quite easy to answer. That you want to redo them may be one thing, but as long as they apply, I think it should be a simple thing to say that they should be followed. Madam President, I would like I am aware that Denmark is not subject to the same EU legal framework as Sweden. This is also one reason why it is simply not possible to have the same rules, as the Moderates say you should have. The volume target that the Moderates have talked about in the Migration Committee and then is a deeply inhumane policy. The meaning is also that steps must be taken gradually to make it as difficult and unbearable as possible, so that people simply do not go to Sweden. This is not long-term. It also means – because it is this goal that has been set – that you must constantly adapt it and make it more difficult when other Nordic countries take measures that make it more difficult. It'll be a negative spiral. Madam President, I would like What has been talked about in Denmark and which Maria Malmer Stenergard has sympathy for is about countries such as Rwanda, Ethiopia and Egypt, with which discussions are being held. These are non-democrats, as is sometimes said. These are brutal regimes. I find it astounding, Madam President, that there is sympathy for this kind of political proposal. I find that deeply regrettable.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-75	Madam President, I would like I tried to shed light on the bigger question of how we best help the most. At that time, I noted that the current regulatory framework really does not do this when so much priority is given to those who do not actually have protection reasons. We know that we have limited resources and that the world needs are enormous. Then perhaps we should have and work for a regulatory framework that better prioritises those who have absolutely the most need for protection. The Green Party talks a lot about humanity, but unfortunately I do not think that a humane policy is being pursued. I do not think it is humane to all those who are stuck in alienation and to all children who do not come to their right to continue to welcome unreasonably many across Sweden's borders when no one, or few, gets the chance to get into society for real. It's not humane. I mentioned that the Green Party consistently prioritises those who do not have protection reasons, and here, of course, the secondary rule comes in. Time and again, people have struggled with beaks and claws to ensure that a fairly large group of young men who have been judged by authorities, and often by courts, not to have protection reasons, are allowed to stay here anyway. In what way – I realise this will be a rhetorical issue – is it humane to give priority to helping these thousands of people who do not have protection needs in front of those around the world who really need protection? I think the Green Party owes the answer to that question.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-80	Madam President, I would like Quite so far into Maria Malmer Stenergards's speech, I had not intended to ask for a reply – I saw that the Minister for Migration had requested a reply – but when Maria Malmer Stenergard went on in the usual order and gave descriptions of how negotiations went to and did not go to, I could not help asking for a reply as well. I think that Maria Malmer Stenergard is deeply dishonest in her descriptions of how we have worked together. I have been very careful, all the time since the Migration Committee presented its report in fjords, to comment on the negotiations that we had and on the negotiations that we had next to the committee itself, which included both me and Maria Malmer Stenergard. But I cannot help commenting when Maria Malmer Stenergard expresses herself in the way she does. Maria Malmer Stenergard is better at saying that her picture is the true picture; I say that this is my picture. My picture is that this whole negotiation was blocked by the Moderates playing the political game that is now being continued in the Chamber. It was a political game that, hopefully, for the Moderates, would lead to the removal of the government already last summer. Now they did not succeed in that game, but they played on. This marked the entire negotiation process. It was deeply dishonest, and it was also one of the reasons why we failed. I have to ask the question: if Maria Malmer Stenergard felt that we Social Democrats did not compromise any more, why did the Moderates then ask an ultimatum in the negotiations which said – and I took note of this very carefully – that this was a final bid from the Moderates and that one should not move another millimetre? Why did the Moderates refuse to continue negotiating?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-85	Madam President, I would like Rikard Larsson and I obviously have a completely different view of these negotiations. After all, we made bids, and the starting point was in reality very close to what the Social Democrats went to elections on and which is still published on their website. They say that Sweden should maintain the restrictive migration policy that it had with the first temporary law and that Sweden should have it until a new EU policy is in place. On point-by-point, our bid was in agreement with the Social Democrats' bid to electors for the 2018 elections, but they did not stand up for their policies. If they had, we would have stood here defending the same bill today, but they didn't. Not only were the Social Democrats unable to stand up for their own policies as they had promised the voters – then they have made further departures from it. The Social Democrats have removed the requirements for knowledge of Swedish and Swedish society for permanent residence permits. They have introduced the most extensive new protection foundation we have ever seen in Swedish history; they call it a humanitarian protection base, but it is something quite different. They have also loosened the scope for derogations so that it will now be rather wide-open doors for those who want to escape the requirements. Talk about games! I once said that it felt like you had a green elephant in the room, and that's what it was like. The government was at risk, and so the Social Democrats chose not to move a millimetre in the negotiations. In the days when we sat there, the Social Democrats did not move a millimetre. The Moderates made bids where we moved, but we only got blank no. Of course, on the last day and the last quaking hour we said we couldn't give you any more, but we gave you very much. You were not prepared to take that because you chose power over substance policy. I guess that's the Social Democrats' signature.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-90	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard continues with the rhetoric and dishonesty she displayed in the committee. This is not true; it is an incorrect description of the work. On what points was the offer made by the Social Democrats in the Committee contrary to the electoral promises we had made? Perhaps Maria Malmer Stenergard will be able to account for that. Which of the points deviated from what we had talked about? It would be interesting to know. This is what is becoming so obvious. Green elephant. Promotional campaigns. Now you have the choice: The Moderates or the Green Party! Facebook posts and tweeting throughout this process. Any serious party in this Parliament that really wants to make agreements sticks to the room where you sit and negotiate and tries to reach agreement with those with whom you are negotiating. Maria Stenergard did not want this. The new track – to go hand in hand with Swedish democrats and Christian Democrats and pursue a very inhumane refugee policy – was too attractive. More than anything, they wanted a government crisis. Apart from that, I have only one question. It comes from the replica that Maria Malmer Stenergard had with Rasmus Ling, where I traced the same dishonesty. Maria Malmer Stenergard talked about the fact that we receive high school young people and people who do not have protection reasons and that we have to accept the most needy. Then tell me, Maria Malmer Stenergard, how you do when it comes to quota refugees and the most needy. You say we should deal with this on the other side of the Mediterranean. How much do you want to increase the number of quota refugees? Isn't it that you want to reduce the number? Is it not that there is empty talk on that point too?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-96	Madam President, I would like I would very much like to answer that, Rikard Larsson. We want to reduce the quota refugee reception to 1 900 per year, which was the case before the temporary law was introduced. It was then decided to compensate for the introduction of a tighter policy to increase the reception of quota refugees. Yet we have seen that we have been at the top of the EU in terms of the reception of asylum seekers who come here irregularly. As long as we continue to take such a huge, disproportionate responsibility in relation to the other EU countries for those who come here seeking asylum, we cannot also accept the second most quota refugees in the world. That is completely unreasonable. And it is our duty to put in place a sustainable policy to protect all those who are stuck in the red-green alienation that the Social Democrats have been involved in creating. On what points does the report's proposal deviate from what the Social Democrats promised the voters? It's on the spot. It is a question of family immigration and it was a matter of humanitarian protection, for example. I agree that when we left the negotiations, we said that what had been said there and the movements that we had made would be held there. Then I sat down in the Morning Studio with Morgan Johansson in what I thought would be some kind of conversation. Then he sat and threw in my face exactly what had been said in that room. And he wasn't even there, so obviously someone with good contact with him has conveyed exactly what was said. But he refused to give me the opportunity to reply. This is so incredibly symptomatic of how the Social Democrats refuse to stand up for their policies. And I understand that; I had also been ashamed.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-100	Madam President, I would like In 1943 most of Denmark's 7,800 Jews and their spouses managed to escape over Öresund with help from both Swedish and Danish sides and were saved from the horrors of the Holocaust. It is part of Danish and Swedish history that many of us are very proud of. In 1943, however, the Moderates were anything but content with this salvation, which was seen as both irresponsible and dangerous. We hear here that Mrs Stenergard has great sympathy for the decision that all asylum seekers in Denmark should be sent to camps in Africa and that nobody should ever be granted asylum in Denmark. Madam President, I would like Had Sweden had the same asylum policy as the honourable Member commended, all the Jews and resistance people who sought protection in Sweden in 1943 had been deported to camps in Africa. Here weave the history of the Moderates and the present together. In the same way that Moderates like the right-wing leader Bagge wanted to deny Jews and freedom fighters protection in Sweden in 1943, it is now a main issue to close all roads to persecuted in the present. The argument is the same now as it was then. Of course, they say they want to help. One blames the lack of integration, the fact that there are too many and that they do not have protection reasons, and one thinks that someone else should take responsibility. In this way, Maria Malmer Stenergard is clear; she really belongs to the old Moderates. But I wonder how Maria Malmer Stenergard thinks we will look at today's moderates when we look back in the future.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-104	Madam President, I would like This level is hard to relate to. But I'll try to explain to you how we Moderates think. When I say that I feel sympathy for how Denmark wants to change the reception, it is because it would be a more accurate way of helping those who are in absolutely the most need of protection. The world has changed a little since 1943, for better or for worse. It has become more open, and it is not so far between countries that it was experienced at the time. I believe that it is an obligation for us to change our regulations. We cannot have age-old regulations which, in practice, only protect those who are often better served. Only those who can afford to pay smugglers to cross the Mediterranean Sea. We see that there are three out of ten reasons for protection – I do not know what the latest figures are – of those seeking asylum in the EU and in Sweden. This means that we spend an incredible amount of resources on those who actually do not have protection reasons, but Christina Höj Larsen thinks we should do that. I don't really understand how it can be humane. I think it is time for a new asylum policy that is much better and more accurate to help those who really need protection. Then it requires that you dare to think again. After all, Denmark has not said that no one should ever get asylum there, but one should still have one's question examined. And as I said, I think there are many difficulties with their proposals, but I support the ambition to try to find a regulatory framework that is much more helpful to those who actually need help. And it's not a game for the galleries or something that I'm just saying because I don't really want to help. We have helped an incredible number of people, but now we also have to make sure that they get into society for real.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-109	Madam President, I would like No, the world isn't the same. After and in connection with the Second World War, 60 million people were on the run in Europe and Europe's neighbourhood. The situation is different now. Now it is Europe that is peaceful, and the millions that are on the run come from the rest of the world. That's the difference. It sounds very nice when Maria Malmer Stenergard talks. She says we should help them with needs. But if we see the moderates of the day it is anything but beautiful, for how do the Moderates want to help them with the greatest need? Obviously it is not by giving people safe lives here in Sweden and being able to reunite with their families, no, nor by receiving quota refugees, that we recently heard here that we want to reduce. Like Friends of Moderates SD, all the talk about helping on-site is also pure lies. Instead, they want to cut Swedish aid by 30 percent, SEK 15 billion. It does not want to stop arms exports or international tax evasion. For the Moderates, therefore, to help those with the greatest need means that with integration as an excuse, just like every time we face this election, trample on the few people who seek protection here in Sweden from war and persecution. Madam President, I would like It says 'no' to aid and 'no' to stop tax evasion, while the oppressors and dictatorships should continue to be armed and companies should be able to continue to commit human rights violations. It echoes empty, Madam President. It's the same old Moderates now as then.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-115	Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen says that we Moderates do not want to give people safe lives here in Sweden. That's exactly what we want. There are so many people who have come here and who do not feel safe. They live in insecurity in exclusion. Children are victims of crime and are sometimes forced into crime and used ruthlessly by gang criminals. Children live far too crowded, do not acquire sufficient knowledge of Swedish and live in extremely difficult economic conditions. It is so sad that the debate is so simplified that parties such as the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, which only open Sweden's borders and put on the blinds, are the ones that are humane. But people must have a chance to get to their right here in Sweden, right? We have received 500 000 asylum seekers in the last ten years. Is it not our duty to ensure that those who are to stay really get a chance to get into society for real? I think so, but it seems Christina Höj Larsen doesn't care about or she doesn't see the problems, and I don't know what's worse. In reality, it is exclusion that we now see a work of all the generous rules that Christina Höj Larsen wants to reintroduce. After all, we have had Europe's most generous rules for permanent residence and for family immigration, which are said to do wonders for integration. But it does not look that way; it did not result. That is what everyone who has taken off the blinders sees and is therefore pushing for a reduction in immigration in order for people to get a better chance here in Sweden. We do not say no to aid. It's just a lie. We have a fairly comprehensive aid budget.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-120	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Maria Stenergard for managing this very difficult report and the proposal in committee in a very good way. As Mrs Maria herself pointed out in her speech, it was a very short time that the committee had to process this. Because Maria deserves a thank you. The Center Party and the Moderates have historically done many important things to help people escape. We still agree on a lot of issues – I think that is also important to raise. We agree on qualification into social security systems, on how to get a better and more coherent return and on a lot of other proposals. It often disappears in the debate. However, it is no secret that the Moderates and the Center Party have made some different choices in recent years and that we may differ in migration policy more than in very many years and decades. The Moderates say that it was very unfortunate – just as I think – that Sweden did not get a broad agreement. It would have been best for our country, but above all for people on the run. I am a bit on the same track as the Social Democrats and Rikard Larsson and would like to ask Maria Malmer Stenergard a simple and very clear question: Do the Moderates mean with their hands on their hearts that you did everything you could to get a broad agreement that we could have decided on here today?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-124	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonny Cato, for the question and for the kind words! I, too, am pleased that we have several points where we are now proposing sharp announcements to the government, for example on return. It is important to emphasise that too – I agree with that. However, I find it a bit sad that the Center Party does not really stand up for its politics. I saw a post from Annie Lööf today on Facebook where she says that there must be no more political games. Four of the seven points put forward by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals in the committee were, of course, supported by the Center Party last summer. Now they will not be voted for. Then I would like to ask the question: what has happened in that year? How is it that we no longer stand up for the policy pursued by the Committee? Then, of course, I will answer the question. The answer is quite frankly yes. I did everything I could, and we were really set on trying to get along. To get away from the patching and repairing that has characterized Swedish migration policy for too long, a broad agreement would be needed where the Social Democrats, the Moderates and other parties would also be involved. Jonny Cato was sitting with me. He knows that I made several different bids which were rejected and which were not met at all by the Social Democrats. The Center Party moved a lot, and that's what the Center Party really wants. It was clear that the Center Party wanted an agreement to be reached, but when the Social Democrats did not even want to reduce immigration, there were no conditions for an agreement. I can only regret that.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-128	Madam President, I would like Is there anything the Center Party does today is to leave political games and vote for the policy we think is best for Sweden and for people on the run. The truth is that if you read the texts of the Migration Committee, you can see that the Government's proposals are more consistent with the ambitions we had when we presented our report. It is important to listen to referral criticism, not least from the Migration Agency, and I think the government has done that very well. I would say that the views we have on the committee are still there, and we are voting in favour of them today. And if one is to mention political games, it must be the Center Party that decides what is the policy of the Center Party, not the Moderates. I would like to come back to the negotiations in the Migration Committee. The Social Democrats are, of course, allowed to answer for themselves, but only the fact that they left their government partner the Green Party at home and went to negotiate shows, I think, that they actually wanted to get along in a real way. What the Moderates did was to present commandments and then compromise with themselves. They compromised with their own bids, their own proposals. There was no connection with the other four parties sitting in the room. What was important to us was not given. What they did was put forward proposals, and then moved millimeters after millimeters. There were really no big moves from the Moderates. Had the Moderates only made a big move on one of all the important issues, I really believe that today, by a large majority, we could have decided on a long-term sustainable migration policy. It would have been good for Sweden, it would have been good for migration and it would have been good for people on the run. It would also have been good for the very high tone that we have heard in migration policy in recent years.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-133	Madam President, I would like To reach agreement, leaving the Green Party is not enough if you are not prepared to negotiate the policy at all. I take it this way in retrospect that I should have known that it was all just games for the galleries. The Social Democrats had no honest ambition whatsoever to come to an agreement. The only honest ambition we have seen from them throughout this term of office is to retain power at all costs. Then you're willing to sacrifice the voters. You're willing to sacrifice your ideals, if you have any left. You are prepared to sacrifice all those who are stuck in the red-green alienation. It's deeply irresponsible. The Center Party is now saying that these four out of seven points that we put forward, which they supported a year ago, are now not behind because the new product is more like what they were behind then. That's where I'm totally lost. I don't follow the game. After all, we have even put forward a proposal that is exactly in line with the Centre Party's follow-up motion. It is about stopping forced marriages by raising the age from 18 to 21 in order to prevent family migration, in order for young people to avoid forced marriages. That is what the Center Party wants to do, but in this House it will vote against that proposal. Instead, it will vote in favour of asking the government to come back with a bill which is identical to what it has just voted against, to which the Law Council has left without comment and which we have put on the table for them. Talk about political games, what Annie Lööf says she doesn't want to do! That, Jonny Cato, doesn't make sense.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-136	Madam President, I would like We are now debating and will later decide on legislation that will regulate what applies when, for example, refugees seek asylum and protection and what applies to the possibilities of reuniting with their family when they receive a residence permit in Sweden. It is important to point out to those who listen to the debate that there are elements in what we call migration policy which we will not be debating today and which are not included in this report but are dealt with in a different order. That is, for example, what we call labour migration. The government has set up investigations there and will also make proposals to get more order and order in terms of labour migration to this country. There are some things that are not dealt with in this report but with which the government is fully working – or working to the full – or how to put it after yesterday's vote. It is a comprehensive report. In this House, we usually say that, for the sake of time, we only ask for a reservation to be accepted. Today, instead, I would like to say that, for the benefit of democracy, I will be calling for much more reservations than that. We have a situation where we have a majority in committee that is not in the Chamber if the parties vote as they did in committee. This makes me think that there is great reason to try all those questions. I'll start by taking my pleas. I'll try to do it as slowly as a show can. First of all, I call for approval of the Government's proposal as a whole – it is a bit like that, as they say, just to show their support. Having said that, however, I would like to express my support for a number of reservations in which the majority of the committee submits legislative proposals other than those of the government. These are reservations 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. Then there are a number of points that are raised if some of the introductory points fall, that is, if the committee's proposal does. This means, of course, that if those points are brought up to date, I would also like to vote for the reservations contained in those paragraphs. These are reservations Nos 26, 27, 29, 34, 37, 42 and 43. I hope it was understood. Now to the question itself. The legislation we are discussing today is based on what happened in 2015. When we saw how bad Europe was dealing with a refugee crisis that the EU countries should have been better able to deal with, with more solidarity and responsibility, but instead a couple of countries took responsibility, we needed to act. The situation became untenable both for the refugees and for our opportunity to receive. The government then quickly took several measures. It is important to be able to understand, because otherwise this debate is confusing, that it was a moderate government's migration policy that had put Sweden in a situation where we received three to four times as many asylum seekers as our share of the EU actually corresponds. When the time came for action, as the government put forward, such as border controls and ID controls, it turned out that the same moderators who had been responsible for the legislation were now backing out when the legislation, which was so clearly different from that in the rest of the EU, also showed its negative consequences. The reason I remind you of this picture is that we have heard, and will hear, moderates talking here about an unsustainable situation, failed integration and too much immigration. Then you should remember that it is the same moderators as each time when it has become sharp position has backed out. When we now wanted a broad and long-term settlement so that Sweden would not return to a situation like 2015 but retain the control that the Social Democratic led government has created, it became, according to my interpretation, as I said in the line-up earlier, too attractive for the Moderates to continue with conflict and political games. I'm sorry about that. Having said that, I would like, after all, to thank everyone involved in the work that we did in the Migratio n committee at this time and at about the same outdoor temperature last summer as it is now. We were in negotiations, and I think we achieved a broad consensus on many issues. And I think that this report reflects a great deal of that consensus. On the part of the Social Democrats, we had a number of entrances to that work. It was entrances based on a Social Democratic idea of solidarity and responsibility in terms of both refugees and the development of our society. This means, among other things, safeguarding the right to asylum. People fleeing oppression and war must have the right to have their reasons for protection tested. This also means that we are pressing for all EU countries to take responsibility together. Sweden is unable to compensate for the shortcomings of other countries. It ultimately creates a society that is not good for anyone. We also need to ensure that the conditions and expectations for entering and participating in society are clear. For us Social Democrats, the right to work has been at the top of the agenda. It is when everyone works and contributes according to their ability that we can also develop society and provide support as needed. This does not differ in any way with regard to the view of refugees. Society must be able to provide rapid support for those who come here also to enter the community of society that it means to have a job and a livelihood. With that in mind and with the aim of getting a broad political agreement on migration policy, a deal that could last over time, we went into work. As everyone knows, that was not the result. Nevertheless, on the part of the Social Democrats, we have tried to keep to what we agreed in the talks. That is why the Social Democrats supported all parts of the Committee's report. The Liberals, too, broadly supported the whole report. That is what the government is now putting forward as the main proposal for the future migration policy. The main elements and the main changes made by the Temporary Act are now being converted into permanent legislation. With this proposal, Sweden will be more like the rest of Europe by moving from permanent to temporary residence permits as a general rule. However, it is also important for good integration opportunities for those who have grounds for protection that there is clarity in how to obtain a permanent residence permit. This is done in that after three years it is possible to apply for a permanent residence permit if you meet certain requirements regarding livelihood, language, knowledge of society and that you do not commit a crime. There is one exception in the case of permanent residence permits at the time of the first decision, and that is in the case of quota refugees. It is people who are selected with the help of the UNHCR, who are deemed to be the most vulnerable and who have very strong protection reasons. Moreover, this is within the framework of work that can be said to create safe roads instead of the risks of a flight across the Mediterranean and through Europe. Those parties which object to receiving people seeking asylum here, on the grounds that there are others more needy, should show it in action by increasing the number of quota refugees, but that is not the case, but it is the opposite. We have heard Maria Malmer Stenergard describe this, and she probably confuses the concepts Receiving fewer quota refugees will not help more people. That's the simple logic. I believe that this is an area which we should give high priority and which should also be given higher priority in the talks with the other EU countries. If Europe's countries had received quota refugees in the same proportion as Sweden, the situation would have been much better. This would significantly bring more order to migration policy across Europe. When it comes to family immigration, the proposal is designed so that the person who comes to Sweden does not receive a longer residence permit than the person you are related to, i.e. you live in Sweden on a temporary residence permit and may be reunited with, for example, your husband or wife, they will not receive a longer residence permit than you have. However, there are cases where the legislation will also grant your own independent residence permit, and this is, for example, if you have been subjected to violence or violation. It is important for the state to make it clear that this is always unacceptable and that it must, unfortunately, almost always, be protected. An important change made to the temporary law is that Swedish citizens who have lived abroad with a partner and want to move home to Sweden together should be exempted from both supply requirements and requirements for certain housing. Personally, I hope that it can also lead to too long processing times at the Migration Agency in this type of case being significantly shortened. Overall, the legislation now proposed is much tighter than the legislation implemented by the Moderates when they were in government. But it also means that there must be valves so that the legislation does not have completely unreasonable consequences, such as the separation of families that have been reunited, the expulsion of people who are seriously ill, or the forcing of people who are unable to work because of illness or injury to live on temporary residence permits throughout their lives. What the government's proposal also does, unlike the Migration Committee's proposal, is to deal with the question of what happens when a person has established himself in the country but the foundation ends, i.e. how to deal with the situation when there is no longer a limit for temporary permits. This may, for example, involve a person who has come as a relative but who differs and who follows the condition of the associate person. The government therefore proposes a change in the humanitarian basis proposed by the Committee. The basis remains, i.e. exceptional reasons for adults, but it is added to some of the specific reasons for special affiliations. This makes the legislation more complete. Then one might ask: Is there another majority here in Parliament? Is there anyone who has a radically different proposal? The answer to that question is probably a well that is strongly inclined toward becoming a no. Of course, the debate should not precede the vote that we shall have a little later today, but I note that the migration policy that has now been agreed between the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals on a great many points is in line with the Government's proposal regarding everything I have talked about regarding temporary residence permits and the requirements for permanent residence permits. There are some changes in family migration and some changes in valves. On the whole, however, those parties have, as I imagine, one year's negotiation since the Migration Committee left its report no further than changes on a few points. They clearly show that the proposal now on the table is the middle of Swedish migration policy. That is the proposal that we negotiated in the Migration Committee, and that is what has the opportunity to win the voice of this House. It is also the policy that has ensured that we have got things right and that, from the forecasts, we can continue to have order while at the same time offering shelter to people on the run. With that, like the chairman of the committee, Maria Malmer Stenergard, I would like to thank the secretariat very much for its excellent work. It is thanks to the office that we are having this debate here today. I hope at least you have a long and restful summer. I would also like to thank everyone in the committee who has worked on this and leave it there during the summer.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-164	Madam President, I would like Earlier today, I have praised the Social Democrats for being prepared to make major moves to reach a broad agreement. Of course, I stand by that praise. However, there is one point that is difficult for the Social Democrats, which I honestly cannot understand. I already felt in the committee that it was not prepared to move very much in terms of it. I cannot understand why the government does not come forward with sharp proposals or even investigative proposals in its proposal in relation to it. Swedish migration policy has good legal certainty, but it can be better. These are particularly difficult cases, the question of convertibility and the issue of LGBT cases in the asylum process. Sweden can do more to get an even better and even more legally secure asylum process, so that we politicians can be sure that the decisions made are correct. My question to the Social Democrats and Rikard Larsson is quite simple: Why do the Social Democrats not want to do more to strengthen the rule of law in the Swedish asylum process?
i-TGgfrWUmwRNPvqtiCW8V5G	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonny Cato, for the question! We want to do a lot to strengthen the rule of law in the asylum process and are constantly working on it. Of course, the government also works with it in relation to its authorities. I think we should remember the mission of the Migration Committee. I also believe that we should be aware of the time that the Migration Committee had. We had a year in which we had a rather difficult mission: to try to reach broad agreement on a new migration legislation for Sweden. My assessment – I think the chairman of the committee shared it – is that there was no possibility for the committee to sit down and conduct a major legal certainty investigation on migration policy. One should be careful not to paint a picture of a parliamentary committee seeing major threats to the rule of law in migration policy. We do not see the great threats to the rule of law. Of course, we see a number of areas where things can be much better and a number of areas where we can have views on how to deal with them. But I do not think that trying to suspect the Swedish system for processing asylum applications leads anywhere. I believe that we constantly need to work on the rule of law, and I think that we are constantly working on it. We should remember that we have a legal system for migration policy that reflects what we have in all other areas of society. It's us who make laws. It's the authorities that make decisions. However, the decisions of the authorities are also reviewed in judicial courts, as in all other areas. Of course, each part can improve at work. But I don't think it's beneficial to spread a picture of it not working.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-172	Madam President, I would like To be honest, I'm a little disappointed, Rikard Larsson. I do not think that the Center Party is spreading a picture that the rule of law in Swedish migration policy does not work. We don't suspect the system. What we're saying is it can get even better. It is no wonder in itself that a Member of Parliament thinks that a system that is largely good but has shortcomings can be even better. Nor is it true that we did not discuss the issue in the committee. Nor is it true that there were no proposals on the table. But they disappeared at the last minute when the President suddenly put forward a proposal which was in line with how the Social Democrats were going to vote. To say that we did not have time, therefore, is not correct. We spent a lot of time on the rule of law. Maybe I'd like to spend more time on it and less on a volume target. But we spent a lot of time discussing how we can increase legal certainty. And there were many suggestions, which we then threw into the trash. I stand by my question: why does the government not come forward with these proposals? If there was no time, the government would have been able to set up a new investigation that could have looked broadly at how we can increase legal certainty in migration policy. Why is it so difficult for the Social Democrats? This shouldn't be far away. It shouldn't be a difficult decision for the government to make. It would also be very good for all LGBT people who come here. Report after report highlights that there are shortcomings that we can address quite easily. Then it would be tasteful if the government set up a broad investigation into how we can increase legal certainty in the Swedish asylum process.
i-Xz4fR11MtQxc7TkLtM9GWm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonny Cato! I don't think I'm really saying that it's Jonny Cato and the Center Party who suspect the system. However, through their actions, there is a risk that those who suspect the system will meet. I also believe that it would have been even stronger if the Migration Committee had landed in a little hasty statements that the rule of law does not work in migration policy. I don't think we had time to conduct a serious investigation. We had time to discuss individual cases and newspaper articles and serious reports that we had read. But that's not how you do an investigation. That is not the way to arrive at conclusions on whether the rule of law is good or not. Well, I guess you'd have to make some other judgements. What Jonny Cato is talking about is very important. For example, in the case of LGBTQ, there are reports that clearly point to the shortcomings. When such reports come, it is important for me to ensure that the responsible authority sees the reports, understands the criticism and takes action. I am very confident that the Migration Agency, in its descriptions of how to work with the questions, takes on board the criticism that exists. This is how we work to strengthen the rule of law. There are authorities that constantly review their proceedings and courts that can constantly review decisions taken by the authorities. In this way, good legal certainty is created.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-181	Madam President, I would like Last summer, Rikard Larsson signed a report proposing that knowledge of Swedish and Swedish society should be required in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. In August last year Morgan Johansson also told DN about the same requirement: ..................................................... Then the Social Democrats removed those demands. In just a few months they have turned and delivered a proposal without any requirement for knowledge of Swedish or about Swedish society. This applies on point after point that the Social Democrats supported last summer – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals are putting forward in the Riksdag proposals that the Social Democrats will now vote against. It is about requirements for knowledge of Swedish and about Swedish society, which I mentioned, a more limited humanitarian protection base and limited exemptions from the supply requirement for both family immigration and permanent residence permits, to name a few things. On all these points, you have put forward proposals that lead to more immigration than what you supported last summer, Rikard Larsson. So you voted in favour of what you are now going to vote against. Now you've turned 180 degrees. The question then, of course, arises: what do the Social Democrats really think? Why do you want to increase immigration? Unfortunately, I think the answer is that you have a very vague idea of what you might want, but that power is superior to everything – actually also the best in Sweden. But I'm happy to hear the answer.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-185	Madam President, I would like The Moderates should be able to recognize a 180-degree turn, as this is exactly what the Moderates have done in migration policy. It has gone from having introduced one of the most generous legislations in Sweden ever to now saying that it should put an end to immigration. That is, of course, the fact of the Moderates, and that is why we are discussing this issue on the basis of a migration report and a migration committee which had to deal with the situation that arose in 2015. This is the 180-degree turn of the Moderates. You should recognize a 180-degree turn, but you obviously don't. We haven't made a 180-degree turn. We stand by the principles that guided us in the work of the Migration Committee. I think you have to be honest enough to remind yourself of the reasoning of the Migration Committee. On the same day that the Migration Committee's negotiations broke, we had booked a meeting with those who sat and investigated the language requirements in relation to citizenship. In the Committee, we agreed that we cannot set any requirements for Swedish language or community knowledge without knowing what it will look like for citizenship. That meeting was, of course, cancelled because we did not get a broad deal. It also meant that the Migration Committee did not make a sharp proposal on the exact nature of these requirements. But there was a discussion about it, and it was said that it should be linked to citizenship. Since the requirements for citizenship are not clear, we cannot introduce the requirements for a permanent residence permit either. This process is getting a little out of hand at the moment a deal breaks, but we need to implement that process.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-188	Madam President, I would like I think I need to refresh Rikard Larsson's memory a little. We said exactly what level we wanted the knowledge requirements in the report. We said that we wanted to have knowledge about Swedish society for permanent residence permits. We agreed on this. It instructed the government to come up with the precise details of how it would be designed. It's perfectly normal. That's exactly what you do. Morgan Johansson himself pointed out in an article that he had a year to produce them. But you obviously didn't want to, or you didn't want to, or you turned. Who knows? Now we stand here in any case, without demands for knowledge of Swedish and knowledge of Swedish society, which the Social Democrats said they wanted. It obviously wasn't that important. As far as history is concerned, it was absolutely the case that the Moderates were involved in conducting an irresponsible immigration policy. I believe that both the Moderates and the Social Democrats know what a mistake it is to include the Green Party in the immigration policy boat. But it was not the case that we introduced this policy. We basically took it completely over after the Social Democrats. It'll be the most honest thing if you say it the way it is. We have both been responsible under different governments for having a totally unsustainable policy. Yes, the Moderates have made a turnaround of 180 degrees. That is now quite a few years ago. Now we are pushing for a reduction in immigration. Unlike the Social Democrats, it is not something we simply say. We are also pressing in this House for a reduction in immigration. The Social Democrats promise their voters that they will reduce immigration, but every time they are called here to press the button for increased immigration. It's so sad.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-191	Madam President, I would like "Be a part of it," says Maria Malmer Stenergard. The fact that the Moderates were involved in this policy is as far as Maria Malmer Stenergard can go. The rest of us know what it was like. We have the pictures of the moderate minister of migration cheering on television at the press conference and were overjoyed that a deal had now been reached on a much more generous migration policy. It was not that you were involved in such a policy, Maria Malmer Stenergard. You led that policy. You were fully responsible for it. But it was a responsibility that you refused to take. You also refused to take responsibility for the refugee crisis in 2015, and you refused to take responsibility when we were going to settle a new policy in the Migration Committee. That's the Moderates' point of reference in migration policy. At any given time, you prefer opposition to taking responsibility. It is not that the government has released language requirements. They shall be inserted. However, they must be harmonised with the requirements for citizenship. The Migration Committee also wrote in its report that it is important to do so; it can be seen as a two-step rocket. The requirements regarding, for example, the Swedish language in connection with a permanent residence permit must be lower than the requirements for citizenship. That is the reasoning we had. Of course, the lower requirements cannot be definitively established without establishing the higher requirements. We have not dropped that question. We still believe that there should be requirements for knowledge of the Swedish language and about the Swedish society together with demands for livelihood and convenience in order to get a permanent residence permit in Sweden.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-193	Madam President, I would like Rikard Larsson is quite right that the Social Democrats were behind the entire Migration Committee's report. Rikard Larsson, on the other hand, is wrong that it is this report that is now to be implemented in Sweden. In that report, the Liberals and the Social Democrats were broadly in agreement, except on some point. However, following the presentation of the report by the Migration Committee, it was only a few weeks before the Social Democrats completely and casually abandoned a number of the positions pursued by the Migration Committee. In the Migration Committee, for example, the Social Democrats supported the fact that it is reasonable for us up to the age of 21 to be able to stop family immigration in order to prevent forced marriages in order to protect a girl in Sweden, for example, from having to live the rest of her life with a person she does not want to live with herself. All of a sudden, the Social Democrats – and also the Center Party, for some strange reason – now want to drop to 18 years. The intention is to make our ability to counteract forced marriages more difficult. Madam President, I would like Another issue was the humanitarian valve. There we agreed that particularly distressing circumstances should apply in Sweden. But all of a sudden the Social Democrats now want a new and very broad foundation that will allow large groups of adults who have been refused asylum applications to remain in Sweden anyway. This list can be made longer. The Social Democrats now, for example, suddenly want large groups not to have to make a living in order to obtain permanent residence permits. The truth is that the Social Democrats have made so great concessions to the Green Party that they no longer stand up for a reasonable and orderly migration policy. Why is that, Rikard Larsson?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-197	Madam President, I would like This is not what Fredrik Malm says. When we had our negotiations, we had discussions – I think Fredrik Malm also remembers this – about how we would deal with the referral points after agreeing on a migration report. We knew that there would be a number of points of view – as in all other normal political work – that the Migration Committee might not have taken into account. One of the issues we discussed in the Migration Committee was about the temporary residence permits. There we landed in not putting any distant parentheses. Does the introduction of temporary residence permits, as a general rule rather than permanent, have to have a lower limit? Is it reasonable for a person to go on time indefinitely? We discussed it, but we landed in the committee that we should not have a distant parentheses. This, together with the referee, means that the government needs to deal with a number of issues. Is it reasonable that, for example, people who do not receive a permanent residence permit because they may not fulfil all the elements but who still have a very strong connection to Sweden should still remain on a temporary residence permit? Is it reasonable, no matter how long the conflict is going on in the country where a person comes from or that there are grounds for asylum, that the person should go on temporary residence permits for any length of time? After 15 – 20 years one should be able to say: Now the conflict ended in your home country, and now you are going home. Or is it more reasonable to consider how the person has adapted to the country? Partly because the consultation bodies pointed to these issues, they needed to be dealt with. This was dealt with by the government in the report.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-202	Madam President, I would like It is very convenient for Rikard Larsson to be able to hide behind referrals. The truth is that all the points on which the Social Democrats have changed their minds coincide with the Green Party's reservations in the Migration Committee's report. The truth is that the Social Democrats have chosen to put the substance of the matter in order for us to get reasonable rules for migration aside to instead keep Per Bolund and Märta Stenevi in a good mood. You want to keep your government together. I understand that a party that is government-supporting wants to hold its government together. But what I don't understand is how you can make such large concessions time and time after year. Madam President, I would like It's not just about these concessions. The Social Democrats have, against the party's own will, pushed through, for example, the so-called new High School Act. There, large groups of people who have been rejected have nevertheless been able to obtain a residence permit in Sweden. The Social Democrats, against their will, have written into Swedish law that a person should not have to prove his or her identity or make it likely. I think it seems to a lot of people that Sweden as a state should write in its legislation that we do not explicitly believe that a person who is to be granted a residence permit in Sweden should have to clarify who they are. In addition, it was now proposed that a person should be able to obtain a residence permit or even a permanent residence permit in Sweden only on the basis of, for example, career introductions or loans from the Central Student Support Board. It is to depart from the whole idea that it is the protection needs that should be central. It's not order, Rikard Larsson. It's something completely different.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-209	Madam President, I would like I'm not hiding behind the referrals, but I'm listening to them. Otherwise, it would be completely pointless to send the report of the Migration Committee for a referral at all. We did. We sent out the whole report for a referral. That's exactly what we said we were going to do. Fredrik Malm claims that all the concessions we have made are in line with the Green Party's reservations in the Committee. Fredrik Malm has read the environmental party's reservations very poorly. It is no secret, and has never been a secret, that we had different starting points in the work that we were doing in the Migration Committee. For us, it was very important that we should not to a great extent slip away from the legislation that we had developed as a temporary law where we had adapted Sweden's migration legislation to what applies in the rest of Europe. That is also the case with the report that now exists. On point by point, we are adapting this to the situation in the rest of Europe. As regards humanitarian reasons and humanitarian grounds, Fredrik Malm's party and my party agreed that we should introduce a humanitarian basis in the January agreement. We also agreed that this would apply to family reunification. What we agreed would apply to family reunification is now included in the report. This is not found in the agreement between Fredrik Malm and the Liberals with the other parties.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-212	Madam President, I would like There's been a couple of messy days at the end. During those days, the parties have tried to communicate and put a picture of their own party's actions. The Social Democratic ministers have in various media communicated the image that the handshake of the Social Democrats is to be trusted and that Stefan Löfven puts Sweden's best first. It is on the basis of the two statements that I would like to put a question to Rikard Larsson, who, just as I have been on the Migration Policy Committee for almost a whole year, whose final outcome we are partly considering here today. This is partly because the handshake of the Social Democrats and their willingness to put Sweden first do not really apply in the area of migration. There it is the continued holding of power that is prioritised over the policy that you have argued for considering to be the best. You support all 26 proposals contained in the final report. The Green Party reserved itself against 23 of those points. Now that the bill lands on Parliament's table, there have been a lot of changes from the policy that Rikard Larsson argued for and said that the Social Democracy is behind. You are now willing to push through a policy that leads to increased immigration. How does it go with the fact that a handshake is to be trusted? Even more interesting is: How can a policy that you do not share be the best for Sweden?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-218	Madam President, I would like In fact, I could only use this whole change of line to just one question: What handshake? There was no one to take care of. You disappeared. We were alone on 26 points. Who were we dealing with? The Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and all other parties fled. What handshake is Hans Eklind talking about? There was no handshake. This means, of course, that the government is placed in a situation where politics must be brought forward here. You in the Christian Democrats and the others had said no. You would have said: we will not do that. We will not proceed with these points. With whom would we have moved on with that proposal? Now we have a government with the Green Party. Of course, negotiations had to be held because a bill had to be tabled. Hans Eklind remembers the discussions we had. I don't know if I'm telling you things you shouldn't mess with. But with all due respect, Madam President, I am ignoring that right now. Mr Eklind knows about the discussions that we had on how to come up with a proposal in this House with a little difficulty if the government parties were not united behind the proposal. Hans Eklind knows about those discussions. You didn't want to touch your hand. You did not want to be involved in implementing this policy. I have a simple question for Hans Eklind: What handshake between the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats is Hans Eklind referring to?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-223	Madam President, I would like We have reserved three points in the final report referred to by Rikard Larsson. On the other 23 points, we have not reserved ourselves. That is the policy that we therefore believe we can support. That's what I was talking about when it came to handshake. Then there are 26 proposals in the final report, Rikard Larsson. They exist for the simple reason that there was a majority in the Migration Policy Committee that we sat in. If there were no majority, there would not have been a single point. The Prime Minister has stated in this House, during a party leader debate, that there is a link between large migration, lack of integration and the crime we see in Sweden. "It's crystal clear, " said the Löfven, if I may quote him. But if it is now crystal clear, why does your party in government abandon the proposals that you nevertheless said you wanted to vote in favour of and that you voted in favour of in the final vote on the Migration Policy Committee? I am thinking above all of the humanitarian valve, which is now so wide that the Migration Agency notes that it is no longer a valve that will be used in exceptional cases – it will be a motorway valve. I am thinking of language and social orientation requirements for permanent residence permits. We agreed on this. Now they are pushed to the future, even though we know that language is important for a person to be able to be hired. It is not Sweden's best that you are voting for here today. You are voting in favour of a product that you have agreed to avoid a government crisis. That is the truth, and we all know that we sat with Rikard Larsson on the committee and listened to how Rikard Larsson argued. You have managed to produce a product so that you can hold this government together, nothing else.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-230	Madam President, I would like Anyone who wishes can make their own assessment by comparing the proposal that now exists with that of the Migration Committee. It will then be seen that the main features of the proposal are in line with what we supported when we sat on the committee. The important change in migration policy with this decision, which I think Hans Eklind and others completely miss but which is an extremely important message, is that we do not go back to a foreign law that differs significantly from the rest of Europe, but we stick to the political shift that took place in connection with the refugee crisis in 2015. I think that is the most important message, and this legislation is very clear. I have commented on language and social orientation requirements, and we are not backing them down. Such requirements will be introduced, but I have also explained how this must be linked to the language and social orientation requirements of citizenship. Mr Eklind says that the report of the Migration Committee was supported, but it is not the case that Mr Eklind's agreement with the other parties on the seven points that were successfully negotiated in one year is in line with the proposal of the Migration Committee, for example as regards alternative protection needs and the right to family reunification. We would have liked to have made a handshake with Hans Eklind and the Christian Democrats, but they do not. Then the situation became as it turned out. We have to deal with the issue of migration, even though the Christian Democrats did not want this.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-235	Madam President, I would like In the bill that we are discussing today, there are a whole series of new relaxations in migration policy. The levels cemented in the years preceding the Corona of between 20 000 and 25 000 asylum seekers are therefore not enough. You want more. I note that Rikard Larsson makes no mention of impact assessments on this. There is also something that is, in principle, totally lacking in the bill. Madam President, I would like It is no more difficult than this: if the pull effects on asylum-related immigration increase, asylum-related immigration will increase. The question that Rikard Larsson should answer is therefore how much it will increase with the Government's proposal and what consequences this will have in an already divided and segregated Sweden. Madam President, I would like The more incentives there are to go to Sweden, the greater the share will be. For example, the new and insanely generous so-called protective foundation is a mere sinkhole as a pull factor. The question that Mrs Larsson is happy to answer and develop is therefore: how much will asylum-related immigration increase with the Government's proposal? What will it cost Swedish taxpayers? How will it affect the Swedish pension system etc.?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-238	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, I think. This is a bit of the Swedish Democrats in their essence. When we discuss migration policy and the legislation that will form the basis for how to obtain asylum in Sweden and what should apply to family reunification, the ordinary image of the Swedish democrats comes up. It paints a system as if we place an order to the outside world of 25 000 or 32 000 or 27 000 people. The Swedish Democrats wanted to place the order for minus a few thousand, I think. That is not how migration policy works. This is not the reality for migrants. Those who run away should have the right to have their case tried. It is not that we have produced a report with a level of 22 000. That's what the Moderates suggested as the only party. Even the Swedish Democrats said that it is probably not meaningful to set that kind of goal, because it does not really work that way. Instead, it is better to describe the policy you want, and then others – the Migration Agency in this case – will have to describe the consequences. I note that, according to the Migration Board's impact assessments, we will remain at the levels that we have achieved with the temporary legislation. This has meant that we have gained much better control over migration to Sweden than we had with the previous legislation, and we want to retain that control.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-242	Madam President, I would like This is something revolutionary. That the migration policy we have can actually affect the number that goes to Sweden I thought was quite obvious to most people. But I understand now that the Social Democrats do not understand at all the push and pull effects. Then perhaps it is for this reason that Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson is the Minister of Migration in Sweden's history who has allowed the most immigrants to come to Sweden. In the first few years of the ministerial role, he did not lift a finger to reduce immigration. It didn't happen until you had to. Now I am thinking about why this change was made at all if you do not understand that there is a connection between pull factors and the number that comes to Sweden. That sounds really remarkable, and I would like Mr Larsson to develop it a little bit and perhaps answered a few more supplementary questions about this. Now that we have the increase in immigration that we are going to have with this mammoth and wimpy legislation, how will it affect society? Where's everybody going to live? How will this affect the housing shortage? For example, over 80 percent of the population in Kista is of foreign background. In Rosengård there are even more. What should be integrated into when all Swedes have moved out? Nearly half of the population in both Botkyrka and Södertälje are born abroad. How will schools work if there is no native Swedish left in the classrooms? How should health care work when everyone needs an interpreter to talk to each other? Where is the impact assessment, and how does Mr Larsson view the pull factors?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-247	Madam President, I would like I sat for a number of years as a politician in Region Skåne and worked with health policy. One of the major problems we had in getting the health care system to work there was a huge shortage of doctors and nurses. Large projects were carried out around Landstingssverige, where, for example, Polish doctors and nurses were in contact with Poland to cope with our health care. Jonas Andersson should probably think about what happens if we do not get people and workers from outside who are also involved in supporting our society, such as bus drivers, doctors and nurses. This forgets the Swedish Democrats completely. In principle, the Swedish democrats see anyone who is fleeing and as an immigrant to Sweden as potential criminals or criminals. It's a humiliating human sight. As far as push and pull factors are concerned, the Committee had a number of arguments on this. It is clear that if we have legislation that differs significantly from other European countries, there is a risk that we will also have to take a much greater share of the responsibility, as we did. Let's change that now. Now we have legislation that is better aligned with the rest of Europe. But it gets a little funny when you start talking to Swedish democrats about push and pull factors, especially about pull factors, because it is clear that people are going to Sweden for other reasons too. Stable, functioning democracy, good gender equality, a strong welfare society – does Jonas Andersson want us also in those parts, which are so-called pull factors, to lie a little low? Should we withdraw a little when it comes to equality and welfare? Jonas Andersson doesn't have any more lines, so he can't answer that, but he has the opportunity to get into it in his main speech. The rest of us can browse after the Swedish Democrats' gender equality policy.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-252	Madam President, I would like It is important to plan and provide good conditions in good time. Almost exactly two years ago, the directives came to a future migration committee. That committee then worked for a year trying to find a broad agreement with the lowest common denominator between parties for a long-term sustainable migration policy. Migration policy would respond to society's needs, it was said. One would in good time plan for basic public services to people who settle in Sweden and give these individuals good opportunities to establish themselves in the country. To plan and provide good conditions in good time may sound obvious, but the fact is that it is something quite new in Sweden after decades that has been characterized by the total opposite. That history is important, Madam President. It can't be ignored. We don't live in a vacuum. Sweden has had a completely naive view of migration, where leading politicians and political parties had the blindfolds so tight that the visibility was almost zero. So it costs us two quattro stagionis, a great Fanta and a Netflix subscription to save the lives of 80 000 people this year. So wrote comedian Henrik Schyffert, and the political establishment applauded as circus seals for this economic brilliance. I often fly over the Swedish countryside and I would like to advise more people to do so. There are endless fields and forests. There's more room than you can imagine. Those who claim the country is full, they should show where it is full. "This meant then Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, who apparently believed that it was a lack of soil space that was the problem in migration policy. Open your hearts! Don't build walls! Refuges welcome! It's all for everyone! That history must be included in this debate, Madam President. During September and October 2015, 10,000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden a week. So it's a new Karlstad in eight weeks. The municipalities were desperate. The Migration Board was desperate. The costs went up, and everyone could see the system collapse approaching. In panic, crying, the government finally took steps to slow down the flow of refugees as well as fortune seekers. It was anything but to plan and provide good conditions in good time. Let me draw some figures, Madam President. These are figures that are important to explain the context in which the discussions on future migration policy must be conducted, because it is of course not possible to decouple migration from the situation in which Sweden finds itself and how it has arisen. Madam President, I would like 1.2 million residence permits have been issued in the 2010s. It's more than a new Stockholm. We have seen the largest population increase in Sweden's history. Almost all the increase is due to immigration. All of these don't just need a land area to live on. They need housing, school, health care, dental care, police protection and social services, and in too many cases they need to be supported by the general public. Over half a million people applied for asylum in Sweden during the 10th century. Most of them had to stay. A large majority of all foreign-borns are not self-sufficient even after ten years in the country. This despite decades of expensive efforts for greater integration. 675 000 foreign born live primarily on subsidies, showing new figures. Of course, there are also natives who do, absolutely, but 85% of those who live on subsidies are born abroad. If you look closely at the statistics, you can see that Syrians, for example, have a income from work that is 14 percent of natives. For Somalis, it's 21 percent. The unemployment gap between native and foreign born is record high, almost 16 percent. If you look only at foreign born from the largest asylum countries, you can see that the gap is even bigger. So, despite the Prime Minister's words on Europe's lowest unemployment, we are still in absolute world class with regard to these problems. Madam President, I would like 20 per cent, i.e. one fifth of Sweden's population, were born abroad. It should be put into some kind of context, too. We can take as an example the immigrant country of the United States, which historically has never had more than 15 percent born abroad. Our neighbours have followed developments with dismay. The Danes stand ready to close the border with Sweden to keep out Swedish crime while the Norwegians ironically talk about the Swedish state. That exclusion in Sweden is huge we already know, and unfortunately it continues to grow. No integration efforts have worked no matter how many millions or billions that were poured down. Unfortunately, this also applies to the school. We have all heard about the Pisa results, which were not only really bad for Sweden but also came with a great scandal: the government darkened the figures and trixed for it to look better. They chose not to count on the thousands of Swedish school students who do not speak Swedish. Then it would not look good, Madam President, and you have to think about the Swedish picture. A quarter of all school students today have a foreign background. At many schools in Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg, but also in smaller cities such as Borlänge and Linköping, up to 80 percent, in some schools more than 90 percent, of the students are foreign. How should they have a chance to learn Swedish properly? How will they have a chance to get into our society and learn Swedish culture if they never meet a Swede? What is the solution? Is it to bus around students depending on origin? Should every school have a certain quota of immigrant children? These are just some of the practical problems that need to be solved. It's not a vacuum. We have a situation in Sweden today that has been built up on the basis of an irresponsible migration policy for too many years. Madam President, I would like This is undeniably a dark picture, but it is the reality in Sweden today – the unmined reality in hard figures. Each of the facts I mentioned should call for reflection. Integration capacity is not zero; it is negative. And integration cannot be distinguished from migration. Madam President, I would like The temporary law that was introduced in a panic by the government in 2016 and extended in 2019 meant that the acute crisis could be averted. But it has not solved the basic problems. It does not provide good conditions for establishment in Sweden for people with low levels of education and weak language skills who lack self-sufficiency and live in exclusion in areas where almost no one speaks Swedish. And since the temporary law came into force in July 2016, more than 600 000 foreigners have immigrated to Sweden. A new, long-term sustainable migration legislation is really needed to solve the problems we have. However, now that the government is proposing new migration legislation, it is a liberalised, watered-down version of the inadequate proposal that came from the Migration Committee. Nothing has been learned from history. What Sweden needs today is not another million foreign born before 2030, but a net minus – more people need to leave the country than move in. We need, once again, to plan in good time and create good conditions for those who already exist here to establish themselves in the country. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have been planning in good time, and we have wanted for years to create good conditions for people not only to establish themselves here but also to live here on the same terms as everyone else. The first thing we need to do now – what could actually improve integration in the long run, reduce exclusion and give the whole society breathing space and time to heal – is to drastically reduce all dreary immigration to Sweden and give more people in exclusion the chance and opportunity to go home again, to the countries they love. The Swedish Democrats have therefore put forward over 70 proposals of over 100 pages on how Sweden can function again and become an example and not something that our neighbouring countries frighten their children with. Madam President, I would like I will not go into all our proposals here for obvious reasons, but I would like to mention some of them in particular. The Swedish Democrats want to abolish what is usually shortened PUT, i.e. permanent residence permit. PUT came to 1954 as something rare, especially that could be used in exceptional cases. In time, however, the PUT has changed completely and has become something that is basically given to all immigrants at the first opportunity. It has become a citizenship light, which it is almost impossible to recall no matter what happens. This is, of course, completely untenable with the volumes coming to Sweden. If you do not meet the requirements to stay in Sweden or in any way harm Sweden, you should not stay forever but go home. Even temporary residence permits must be withdrawn as soon as a foreigner no longer has reason to stay in Sweden. Today's extremely lax rules on expulsion due to crime must be supplemented by rules on expulsion due to anti-socialism. Anyone who is involved in gangs, has a criminal lifestyle, lives from, for example, drug sales or other crimes or makes a living dishonestly can be expelled. Supply requirements must apply to all dependants, with as few exceptions as international law allows. No one should come to Sweden as a relative and be in exclusion already at the first step at Arlanda. The requirements must also be tightened up so that only those who can really make a living can bring family members here. In addition to all this, it is absolutely essential that we use all the possibilities of EU law to reject as many asylum applications as possible when they are unnecessary. The first safe country principle must be re-established. The asylum seeker should end up at the transit centre where their application is handled quickly and legally. The EBO Act should of course be abolished, just as the Instructions Act and other provisions that circumscribe municipal self-government. The change of track, which confuses the right of asylum with the Swedish labour market, must be removed. Madam President, I would like Strengthening the rules for real will also give a clear signal to people in motion that Sweden is not a place to shop for asylum through half the world and have as a final destination. We will certainly take our responsibility to help, but we help in the immediate area where each crown has the best effect. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by emphasising one thing that I think is important: being harsh and inhospitable is not something we do with a light heart. But it is not our money that is paying for the problems of migration and integration, it is the taxpayers'. It is not primarily us 349 Members of this House who live in exclusion and no-go zones, but it is the Swedish citizens – often the immigrants, the vulnerable, the poor, the new lower class. In addition, Madam President, it is not the Swedish Democrats who have put Sweden in the situation we are in today. It is all the other parties in this House that have ruled for decades. Some have made a 180-degree turn, and I think that's good. Others still seem to be living in some kind of alternative reality. When the government is unable to stand up, light the lamp and say that the party is over, someone else must take that responsibility. We Swedish democrats are prepared to take this responsibility for Sweden's future. We believe that there is hope for Sweden and that it can be much better. At the next election, whether it will be this autumn or next autumn, there is a real chance of seriously changing Sweden's path and making Sweden a better country for everyone, natives as immigrants, pensioners and young people – all. But it requires putting down the blindfolds, learning from the mistakes of history and doing what is good, even if it is difficult, and not just what feels good in the moment. Last but not least, of course, we support all our reservations on this extremely important subject, but in order to facilitate the vote, I only call for reservations 9, 19 and 38.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-294	Madam President, I would like In their reservations, the Swedish Democrats mention in the report and in the party's special opinion in the report of the Migration Committee that the Swedish Democrats want to abolish entirely the possibility for a person to obtain a permanent residence permit in Sweden. Even now in the speaker's chair, Jonas Andersson mentioned this. To me, this seems rather strange. In Denmark it takes five years and in Hungary too. Denmark and Hungary in this case appear to be some kind of generous example compared to the Swedish Democrats in particular. That temporary residence permits should be the general rule, Madam President, is reasonable. That's what we're doing in the Liberals. There is also broad support in the Riksdag for this. Now there will also be requirements for livelihood, compliance with laws and regulations, and so on – so-called vandelskrav – to get a permanent residence permit. We in the Liberals believe that this is reasonable. We also believe that there should be more testing of expulsions for crimes that give half a year's imprisonment and upwards. This is too rarely done in Sweden. Such regulations are, of course, reasonable, but the total requirement for permanent residence permits to be issued from the legislation is quite different. This means that people who do exactly what the Swedish Democrats want them to do, namely assimilate completely in Sweden, and who may marry someone and want to live here for 50, 60 or 70 years, should have to worry about having their stay approved by the Swedish authorities every two years for the rest of their lives. That's not reasonable, is it, Jonas Andersson?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Malm, for the question. No, that is not reasonable, and that is why we have citizenship that can be achieved. There's no big problem with that. When it comes to regular extensions of temporary residence permits, this is something that should in principle be automated. You should in principle only have to go online once every two years and re-apply. If there have been no new problems or new consequences of any kind, it may be extended quite simply. I can't see a huge problem with that. Since when you have become a citizen and meet the requirements for citizenship, you have shown that you want to become Swedish for real. They have shown that they want a relationship with Swedish society, and they have learned the Swedish language to a certain extent. Then you have every opportunity to become a part of the Swedish nation.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-299	Madam President, I would like It's gonna be very strange. On the one hand, the Swedish Democrats want to make it impossible for people to obtain permanent residence permits, and on the other hand, they want to undermine Swedish citizenship, so to speak, by enabling people who have temporary residence permits to obtain citizenship. It's gonna be very strange. The truth is that permanent residence permits are a very important incentive for integration and establishment. That is precisely why it is so important that you put in demands for support and that you learn the Swedish language and so on, because that means that more people strive to get a permanent residence permit. How it will be with the demands and where the Swedish Democrats put the level to get Swedish citizenship will then determine how many will be able to get it in the end. I have to say, it's going to be very strange. If you have the right to sit in the municipal council in Sweden, you can be elected for a four-year term, but in Sweden Democrats' Sweden you can't be sure that you have the right to reside in the country for more than two of these years, and then it will be renewed. I find this very strange, Madam President. If it's like Jonas Andersson says that this is completely unproblematic – that it's all done through a digital procedure where you chalk on with bank ID and then the thing is steak – the question is why it's so important to the Swedish Democrats at all. Then it doesn't matter, does it? That is not how you envisage this being applied, is it, Jonas Andersson?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-303	Madam President, I would like The problem is that we have had permanent residence permits that have become a citizenship light instead of the exception they originally intended to be. This has meant that people have been granted permanent residence permits in principle immediately when they have been given the right to stay in Sweden for various reasons. And it has not mattered what you have done since – not even if you have cheated on the permanent residence permit, it has led to you getting rid of it. When you have committed serious crimes in Sweden you have not been able to be expelled on the grounds that you have a connection; you still have a permanent residence permit in Sweden. This is the basic problem. Living with temporary residence permits is no problem. There will be no difference in practice. And as I say, the final idea is that we should upgrade citizenship to something that will be important. Citizenship should not be something you find at the bottom of a cereal package. If the choice is between permanent residence permits with requirements or permanent residence permits without requirement, we are of course in favour of permanent residence permits with requirements. However, we believe that the whole figure of permanent residence permits is problematic. It should be citizenship to be sought.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-306	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask a completely different question, but, like my Liberal colleague Fredrik Malm, I got caught up in this with permanent residence permits. The Swedish democrats black out as no other party the alienation and migration that Sweden has had for many years. But you never hear any suggestions on how to break the exclusion and solve integration, except that we will not help more. Jonas Andersson also says that there is no difference in practice between temporary and permanent residence permits. I think it is a huge difference in practice for those who have fled war and oppression to know that you can stay here in the long term. This creates incentives to get into and become a part of Swedish society. The Center Party does not want language and social literacy requirements for permanent residence permits, but we believe that supply requirements are reasonable. However, we can see that in this House there is a majority in favour of language, social sciences and supply requirements. Is it not, then, Jonas Andersson, better for integration and for the individual that if you know the Swedish language, live up to the requirements when it comes to social science and have your own livelihood also gets to know that you can stay here in the long term? Isn't it better for integration and for the individual?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-310	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech and in a previous line shift, we do not live in a vacuum. We live in a Sweden that today has very big problems with division, alienation, etc. The first thing we need to do to help integration in Sweden is to reduce migration to Sweden. These problems cannot be decoupled. It is also by far the most important integration measure that exists. There are a lot of people, often born abroad– I drew a lot of figures on this in my speech– who are living in alienation today. Their situation is not made easier, but, on the contrary, it is made more difficult by the irresponsible liberal policy behind which the Center Party, among other things, is behind. When it comes to making demands to grant permanent residence permits, my answer is the same as I gave Fredrik Malm just now. In the choice between making demands for permanent residence permits or doing what the Center Party wants and just letting everything go – with disorder and disorder throughout society as a result – we naturally choose to make demands. But the natural goal of anyone who wants to stay in Sweden and make Sweden their home country is to become a citizen.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-314	Madam President, I would like Then I have a simple question for Jonas Andersson. Today you have to have a permanent residence permit in order to become a Swedish citizen. Do the Swedish Democrats want a temporary residence permit to be sufficient to become a Swedish citizen?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-315	Madam President, I would like It's a simple question that can get a simple answer. Precisely how this is to be done must, of course, be investigated, but on the basis of the policy we are pursuing, the reasonable consequence is that a temporary residence permit can be sufficient for citizenship. Of course, it should be linked to lots of other requirements such as ten years' stay in the country, language requirements, vandelskrav etcetera. It is not that citizenship, as it is now, should be something that is found in a cereal package, which is obviously what Jonny Cato advocates.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-316	Madam President, I would like The year was 1980, when one of the bloodiest wars in history, the war between Iran and Iraq, began, a war that would cost many lives. In the middle of this, a little n boy named Ali was born. Growing up in the middle of a war is something I can't even imagine. But it has been and still is the raised many girls and boys around the world sheep. You were worried about the first day of school or longed for the latest TV game. But around the world, children are anxious about food on the table and a place to sleep, and they yearn to go to bed at night without having to be afraid not to wake up in the morning. A cold, dark and windy evening on April 27th and years later, the little boy Ali, now 11 years old, came to Sweden as a refugee after the terrible consequences of the war. Today, Ali is 4 0 years old and is in place 285 in the Swedish Parliament. I am sure that Sweden is a better country with Ali here, and I am convinced that people who flee to Sweden, with hope and faith in a better and safer future, want nothing more than to get into and become part of Swedish society and make Sweden better. When you have fled from situations we cannot even imagine, have protection reasons and have been granted a residence permit, you should not be met by: Welcome to Sweden! You're supposed to be met by: Welcome home! During the autumn of 2015, a major change in Swedish migration policy and political rhetoric began. At the same time, Sweden as a country appeared in many ways from its very finest side. People all over our country, from Ystad in the south to Haparanda in the north, stood up when people on the run needed it most. Individuals, associations, municipalities, companies and organisations did everything they could to help people get into and become part of our common society. We did not say to those who had protection reasons: Welcome to Sweden! We said welcome home! But in the shadows behind there were dramatic political movements, which led to Sweden having temporary migration legislation and to several parties entering a political chicken race about who has and who is perceived to have the strictest and most restrictive migration policy. Sweden's migration and integration policy before 2015 was full of problems. People who had been rejected were found illegally in the country, and people who wanted to become part of Swedish society were put on a stand-off. Both encouragement and tools for people to become part of Sweden were often lacking. But the way many Swedish parties reacted helped to divide families and create enormous uncertainty for people with protection reasons who sought security in our country. The Center Party already said after the large influxes of refugees: we need a new, sustainable migration policy. But instead of introducing legislation that divides families and participate in the competition for how we can become as restrictive as possible, we need – and we still need – a Sweden that is capable of expelling those who lack protection and who have the courage to say To those who have the right to stay here. Those of you who have followed the debate on migration policy have perhaps heard me repeat the foundation stone of the Center Party in migration policy – a long-term sustainable migration policy that combines humanity and humanity with order. For me, humanity and humanism mean that the right to asylum is inviolable, that those who have received protection reasons should stay, that children should be reunited with their parents, that the rule of law should be good and that people who come home to Sweden should have good opportunities to get the first job, learn the Swedish language and become part of our common society. For me and for the Center Party, migration policy is about helping the most vulnerable. Order and order are about the person who has received a refusal to leave the country. It is crucial to succeed in integration and to be able to invest fully in providing the best possible conditions for those who have protection reasons. Qualification into parts of our social security systems is about being able to keep migration costs at reasonable levels, so that we can still be a country that helps people escape. Sweden should have regulated immigration, where those who have protection reasons should be allowed to stay and have good conditions. But whoever has been refused will leave the country. Sweden should take its proportionate share of the responsibility, but the other countries and, above all, the EU have an enormous responsibility to help people on the run together. The EU needs a new migration policy, and Sweden needs a regulatory framework that is in line with other EU countries. For me, this is humanity and humanism combined with order. It creates the basis for a long-term sustainable migration policy. Madam President, I would like Sweden's migration policy and, above all, integration policy have great challenges with all those people who do not manage to learn the Swedish language or get into the labour market and therefore not in Swedish society. Too many people are stuck in a long-standing alienation. The Center Party has strong proposals on how to improve integration. More jobs are the key to better integration. By reducing the cost of hiring and improving language training, more newcomers can get jobs. These are reforms that we have started under the January Agreement and which will lead to more people being able to make a living than before. We've done a lot. At the same time, more reforms are needed to create good opportunities for rapid and successful integration. But we also need to have the courage to see all the good things that are happening in our reception and all the people who have succeeded – managed to learn the Swedish language, managed to get the first job and become part of our common society. The Syrian Civil War has reaped many victims. During the autumn of 2014, Ismael came to Sweden. Ismael had worked as a doctor at home in Syria. He had the opportunity to participate in Region Kalmar's very successful fast track with healthcare Swedish. After only three years – three years – he was 1 out of 18 new doctors who received Swedish medical ID. Today, he works, struggles, and labors, to provide high-quality care for Kalmarites. He is a part of Swedish society. The Center Party believes that it is good that we should introduce requirements for a permanent residence permit. Requirements are important. But it is at least as important to find a balance between enabling integration and making demands. We therefore say no to language and social literacy requirements. The political debate in recent years has been much about demanding. And yes, we're going to set high standards. But we talk far too little about what is even more important: that everyone who comes here is given the conditions to achieve the requirements, to get the first job and to learn the Swedish language and thus become part of our common society. Ali and Ismael are two very successful examples. I am convinced that people with hopes for the future who flee half a world away from their childhood homes to Sweden do not want anything more than to become part of our community. Of course, not everyone will be doctors and MPs. Many who come have severe traumas with them. Many have not attended school and thus have limited language and reading skills. Everyone, just like us in here, has completely unique conditions. It will also shape our migration and integration policy. It is a policy that empowers every man, boy, girl and woman to become their best self. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party agrees with the following reservations: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 17, 26, 29, 34, 42 and 43. Finally, I note that the political chicken race about who is perceived as having – and has – the most restrictive migration policy has not yet meant that anyone has realised that it is time to slow down. M, KD and SD have promised to tear up today's decision on new permanent migration policy as soon as they come to power. The Center Party will not participate in the contest about who can say no to the very most. Today's decision on a new migration policy is largely in line with what the Center Party has been fighting for in recent years. We will end the patching and repairing by means of permanent migration legislation. It enables children to reunite with their parents. It is a broad humanitarian basis. It is a temporary residence permit as a general rule. It is a strengthened supply requirement for family migration and no volume target. However, there is also a lack of important elements on qualification into social security systems. There is a lack of strong proposals on how to get effective and coherent return on the ground, as well as proposals on how to increase legal certainty. Madam President, I would like Yesterday was, frankly, a heavy day in this Chamber. We were thrown into a political crisis. Today is a good day for Sweden. Today is a good day for people on the run. Sweden is finally getting a new permanent migration legislation.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-339	Madam President, I would like In many areas of migration policy, I and Jonny Cato think differently. However, in some areas we feel the same, and today we will decide on two requirements addressed to the government. On the one hand, work on return needs to be strengthened. It is incredibly important and a prerequisite that those who have been turned down in an orderly process actually also leave the country. First, to prevent forced marriage. EU law provides for the possibility of refusing family immigration if one of the spouses or cohabiting persons is under the age of 21. This was proposed by both me and Jonny Cato in the Migration Policy Committee, and we have both proposed this in our follow-up motions on the bill. The committee has also produced the sharp legislative proposal to get the amendment through. The proposal has been referred, and it has been left entirely unanswered by the Legislative Council. Although Jonny Cato has the same opinion, he will vote against the sharp bill. Then, when it has fallen, he will vote in favour of calling on the government to come back with exactly the same bill. This is beyond my understanding. If you tell the voters that this is my policy, I want to push this through, namely to raise the age limit in this case to prevent forced marriages, and then you get the chance in Parliament to vote to push through exactly that policy, then why do you vote no?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-343	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, very simple. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that this is beyond her understanding, but for me it is very simple. The Center Party follows the practice that has been in existence for decades in the Swedish Parliament, that is, it is the government that proposes sharp legislation and the Riksdag that makes announcements. The Center Party thinks it is important to have a 21-year limit. The Center Party thinks we should do everything we can to stop child marriage and forced marriage. That is also why we have exercised the matter ourselves. I hope there will be an announcement today. This is no stranger than that the Center Party does what the majority of the parliamentary parties have been doing for decades and probably will do on many issues for many years to come.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-346	Madam President, I would like I do not think that is quite true, but I think there are quite other reasons. I would like to recall that the Center Party has been involved in trying to bring out strong legislation in Parliament. When I read the Swedish Constitution, I want to remember that it is this Assembly that is the Legislative Assembly in Sweden. We can't sit here waiting for the government to get its ass out of the wagon and deliver the right bill. If there is a chance to influence Sweden, we will well carry out the task we have received from the voters. I'm not buying this. I think this is a political game. That's why it's particularly interesting that Annie Lööf on social media today trumpets out that more parties need to put substance politics ahead of political play. That's exactly what she says. If substantive policy is at the heart of the issue, then you will vote for what you believe in. If you believe in introducing a 21-year limit, and there is a proposal for a 21-year limit on the table, why do you not vote in favour of that proposal? This, Jonny Cato, doesn't make sense.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-351	Madam President, I would like It is true that the Center Party has been involved in making strong teams, but we think it is a tool that should be used to a limited extent and restrictively. If there is a need for migration policy, it is a structured legislative process. Over the past six years we have seen that the patching and repairing has not been good for Sweden. Then again comes the question of a political game. Yes, we in the Center Party have been exercising on our policy, and we will vote in favour of it today. It's no harder than that. We put the policy of the Center Party on migration first. That is what we have been exercising on, and that is what we are voting for regardless of what other parties think. We will vote with the Moderates in certain proposals today, and we will vote with the Government in certain proposals today. We will vote against the government in certain proposals today, and we will vote against the Moderates in certain proposals today. It's no harder than that. But where the Center Party stands on the subject of the 21-year limit, no one should question. We will ensure that there is a sharp announcement from Parliament today.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-355	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to give Jonny Cato the right. It is good that he raises a really important point, namely that we need to talk a lot more about how we can achieve a better integration policy. What tools do we put in the hands of those who come here and those who will pilot the new ones into Sweden? Not only will we welcome you here, but we will also welcome you home. I know that Jonny Cato and I will discuss, among other things, the issue of integration when Almedalen will be implemented in a digital version this year. There we will discuss some different solutions to the question of integration. It would therefore be excellent if Parliament changed its mind so that the Social Security Committee could deal with both migration and integration in the future. Friday is Midsummer Eve. The Midsummer pole should be dressed, and then children and adults will dance around the pole. I came to think about this when I was thinking about when, unfortunately, Maria Malmer Stenergard was a little faster than I was asking for reply at Jonny Cato. I was thinking about the priest's little crow when I reflected on the Center Party's blunders in migration policy. Here, the Center Party has the opportunity, together with us Christian Democrats, Moderates, Liberals and Swedish Democrats, to get through a sharp piece of legislation setting a 21-year limit for family immigration. It'll be something that I know the Center thinks. I also know that the Centre Party has criticised the Red-Green Government for not including the proposal in the proposal presented because it was included in the final report of the Committee on Migration Policy. But you will therefore vote 'no'. Instead, you want an announcement. So it is the chorus in the priest's little crow that made me think about this. Yet she slipped here and she slipped there, and yet she slipped into the ditch. Why, Jonny Cato, can the Center act that way?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-362	Madam President, I would like Undeniably, you want to take off your suit and celebrate Midsummer! Let me leave it at that; this is very simple. The Center Party does not think it appropriate at this point to allow Parliament to propose sharp legislation on migration policy. We think it is more appropriate to make an announcement. No voters should hesitate about where the Center Party stands on the substance of the matter. We are in favour of a 21-year limit to prevent child marriage and forced marriage. That is why we do exactly as the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats most often do in this House, namely make an announcement. It's no stranger than that.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-365	Madam President, I would like I heard Jonny Cato used a similar reasoning when answering Maria Stenergards's question. But it won't last. Since 2015, the temporary migration legislation has an age limit of 21 years. What we proposed in the Migration Policy Committee was that it should be permanent. It is not a new law that we propose, but an existing law that we want to be permanent. Since the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have agreed on this committee initiative, it is included as a point of proposal. This will enable the Centre Party to vote strongly here today. We note that the Council of Law has no objection to the proposal. It is therefore a prepared proposal. With regard to the apology or reason referred to by Mr Cato – that it must be prepared – I would therefore like to point out that it is prepared. It is already existing legislation. We want it to be permanent because we want to put an end to the exploitation of young girls. I know the Center wants that, too. It is quite incomprehensible, Jonny Cato, that you choose the way to settle for an announcement when you can ensure that this sharp legislation is in place already on July 20 – in just a few days. You say no to this, and you therefore say no to the fact that Sweden will continue to have legislation in this area, with a 21-year limit. Nevertheless, the Center Party should take responsibility for this. You want an announcement, but it is about exactly the same thing: the law that exists should continue to apply. In fact, those excuses or references to how to do things do not hold up in this case.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-370	Madam President, I would like The Moderates and Christian Democrats seem very keen to get the Center Party on this issue. Then you could have talked to us before you sent out a press release. But instead they chose to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats as usual. Had you really wanted to have with the Center Party, you could have done an honest try before you pushed on. When, for once, we agree on a matter of substance in migration policy, we choose to still turn on and criticise the Center Party. Yes, it really feels like you really want to cooperate for the best in Sweden! For real – we agree on the matter. We are directing a sharp announcement to the government in the same way that this Parliament does every week. That is how it works in most cases; there is nothing controversial about it.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-373	Madam President, I would like Let us take a very concrete example, which could be from Sweden today. We have a girl who is 18 years old and has just graduated. She lives in an alienation area and lives in an honorary culture. She is now forced to go to her home country in the summer, where she is married to a person she has hardly ever met. She then comes back to Sweden, and a few months later, an application from her new husband, with whom she has never in practice given her consent to share the rest of her life with, comes to live with her wife every day for the rest of her life. He's a bit over 20; she's 18 1⁄2. With the current legislation, Madam President, the temporary law, the Migration Agency can conclude that this is a forced marriage. To protect the girl, we deny the man the right to immigrate as her husband to live with her. In a few hours' time, Parliament will vote in this Chamber. The Center Party will then vote for the 21-year limit to be lowered to 18 years, which means that the Center Party will actively vote for Sweden to have almost non-existent opportunities to protect this girl. It is very strange that the Center Party wants to do this, because at the same time the Center Party has submitted a motion to the Riksdag saying that it is very important with the 21-year limit. Why does the Center Party want to actively reduce Sweden's ability to counteract forced marriages, while the party is proposing to the Riksdag to strengthen our possibilities to counteract forced marriages? Can not Jonny Cato explain it to the rest of us so that we understand how you reason in this?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-377	Madam President, I would like I think I have answered these questions, but it is obviously nice to hit the Center Party a little more on this issue. We do not think that we should write sharp legislation at this stage in migration policy. We think we should address a sharp announcement to the government. But it is perhaps more relevant to ask the Social Democrats and the Green Party why they do not include this in the bill. I have a question for Mr Malm: why did you not turn to the Center Party and seek support for this line? Why, instead, did you hook arms with the Swedish Democrats in a first joint political move? Firstly, the common political move was the migration policy chosen by the Liberals. Why did you not instead seek support for this line with the Center Party?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-380	Madam President, I would like We are not going to write sharp legislation, says Jonny Cato. But that's exactly what we're doing. The whole report we are discussing now concerns the new Swedish Aliens Act – it certainly cannot have escaped the Center Party. What the Center Party wants is for us not to make this specific rule of law. The Center Party will therefore vote against the party's own position in order to actively impair Sweden's ability to counteract forced marriages. And so Jonny Cato says to me: Why did the Liberals not turn to us? The truth is that we turned to the whole Parliament. It is our specific opinion that is the basis for this, and we submitted it already last October. But now it happens that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and even the Swedish Democrats thought this was reasonable, and they said they would be happy to support this. But the Center Party says: No, we won't, because Jimmie Åkesson thinks this. The Center Party therefore believes that it is more important to fight the Swedish Democrats with words than in action to protect vulnerable girls and boys who are at risk of forced marriage. That's what the Center Party does. They sacrifice the opportunities for Sweden to fight honorary culture and protect vulnerable 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds in Sweden because the Center Party and Jonny Cato are unable to press the same button as Jonas Andersson in Skellefteå over there. I think that this is quite unreasonable, Madam President, and I am rather upset on a personal level. I, as a Liberal, feel that this Parliament, with the alienation we have in Sweden and the young generation that is forced to live under the pressure of honour, actually has a duty to stand up for the young girls and boys who are in danger of being subjected to these persecutions. But the Center Party does not think so. You sacrifice them in some kind of cynical game because you don't want to press a certain button this afternoon.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-384	Madam President, I would like And I am personally, as a liberal, very upset when a so-called liberal party gives the Swedish Democrats direct influence over migration policy. But again – the Center Party does not think that we should have a deterioration in legislation that does not provide the authorities with the tools they need to fight forced and child marriages. We will therefore vote on our own proposal, which makes a sharp announcement to the government on this matter. It would have been more dressy if the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates had instead asked the Social Democrats why they did not include the 21-year rule in their bill.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-387	Madam President, I would like I'm at some risk of getting a little nagging, as it can easily be when you're four who push the button and want to discuss an important issue. Jonny Cato asks, why didn't you contact us? I would have liked to have contacted Jonny Cato if I had known that the Center Party was not behind its own policy and was not prepared to vote for it. I would certainly have liked to have included Jonny Cato in all of these eight points. If we agree on substance policy, I do not actually see any problem in cooperating even with the Center Party. Actually, it's okay. Next time I'll call Jonny Cato and try to include him in a collaboration if it's about politics that is good for Sweden and where it feels like we might actually agree. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a supplementary question. Now everyone else has talked about these issues already so that everyone knows the conditions. It's very simple. In a few hours' time, the Center can vote for a sharp bill and extend the law that already exists – there are no strange things – instead of actively ensuring that it ends. But my question to Jonny Cato is: Can Member Cato with a clear conscience look at 18-19-year-old girls or guys with foreign background in their eyes, young people who risk being married away to foreign relatives, and explain to them why the Center doesn't take this chance to actually extend a sharp team? Why does the Center put principles before concrete results? Why is this political game so important?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-389	Madam President, I would like The Center Party will not cooperate or negotiate with the Swedish Democrats. I don't think that's an unknown position by now. The Center Party will today vote in favour of an announcement that will allow the authorities to stop forced and child marriages. The question of why this is not in the bill should reasonably be addressed to the Social Democrats and the Green Party. If it had been included in the bill, we would have voted in favour of it, and there would have been no problem. The responsibility cannot therefore be placed on the Center Party, but on the government. The Center Party will vote in favour of our policy. We will be voting in favour of a 21-year limit this afternoon in this House. What the Center Party thinks on this issue is clear.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-391	Madam President, I would like What the Center Party thinks is clear, but what the Center Party does is a completely different matter. Then Jonny Cato also says that under no circumstances is he prepared to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, not even on substantive issues where we actually agree and where it is about protecting young girls and boys from honour repression and forced marriages. So this is not about, as Jonny Cato repeats several times, that nobody contacted the Center Party and asked about this before. Even if we had contacted Jonny Cato before, he would still have put the political game ahead of the well-being of young boys and girls. I also note that Jonny Cato very carefully avoids answering the question I asked. That's why I'm putting it back. Can Member Cato conscientiously look into the eyes of 18 to 19-year-old girls or boys with foreign background, young people who are at risk of being married away to foreign relatives or others, and explain to them why the Center does not take the chance to extend the existing legislation to protect them against honour and forced marriages?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-395	Madam President, I would like That is a question to be put to the parties who will not vote in favour of such announcements today. It is a question to be put to the Left Party, to the Social Democrats and to the Green Party. The Center Party will continue to fight for us to have a 21-year rule. It's no harder than that.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-396	Madam President, I would like This debate could have been about making Sweden a better place to live for all of us. It could have been about ensuring in the best way that Sweden, following the Temporary Restrictions Act, receives a Foreigner Act based on international conventions on refugee status and human rights, which safeguard the right to protection, family, participation and dignity. It could have been about how we can ensure that children have more rights and opportunities, not less. It could have been about how, based on the solid science and knowledge that exists in the field, we make sure that a foreigner's law gives the protection needed the best possible conditions to end the flight and become part of Sweden. It could have been about how we ensure that there is legal certainty and accuracy in all parts of the asylum process and how the Aliens Act can also contain doors for those who are stuck in impossible limbo situations. Unfortunately, however, it does not, Madam President. Instead, both government parties and the reactionary right are stuck in competing for who can treat people on the run the worst. The result is that both the government and the opposition are putting forward proposals that not only ignore science and proven experience, but also the specific status of refugee status and the resulting rights. To get away with this, the integration argument is used as a practical cover. Both the government and the blue-brown opposition claim to want fewer people to seek protection in Sweden in order to improve integration by introducing a series of measures that we know with absolute certainty will lead to less integration. Through this logical hill change, both try to pretend that Sweden's problems with overcrowding, class divisions, segregated marketing schools and a neglected welfare building can be solved by trampling on people on the run. Apart from the fact that this is an ideological betrayal by a social democratic government and the liberals who may be left somewhere, it is also historyless and anti-knowledge. There are, Madam President, a lot of things that we know for sure. We know that a secure and predictable future is the very foundation on which we humans best build our lives. Permanent residence permits and the right to family reunification therefore provide the best foundation on which to build the new life. It provides better and faster establishment for the individual, saves resources for the Migration Agency, which does not need to reconsider residence permits over and over again, and creates the best possible conditions for society's planning in general and small. We also know that a precarious labour market for newcomers leads to precarious jobs for all. When permanent residence permits and the possibility of reuniting with your family depend on employment and some income, the balance of power is shifted to the advantage of employers. A worker who makes every effort to see his children again or get a secure residence permit is easy to use, easy to pay, easy to grab, easy to replace and easy to silence. This, Madam President, is a strategy of defeat not only for those who are exploited, but also for the fellow Member next door and for the employees as a whole. The employee collective is never stronger than the most insecure in the labour market. The right has always believed that the working class is best encouraged to work harder and to exert itself more if it is hungry, insecure and serf. What is tremendous today is that a Social Democratic government is now saying the same thing about new arrivals. We also know that these requirements will also increase competition for unskilled jobs. The mismatch and ethnic layering of the labour market are increasing when individuals are forced to choose quick and short-term solutions to achieve security with a permanent residence permit over long-term investment in, for example, validation or further training. For a government that claims to put the jobs first, it is completely backwards. We also know that the proposals put forward will affect women much harder than men. This is also clear from the government's own impact assessment. Women have greater responsibility for children and households throughout our society, which leads to a lower level of integration into the labour market, not least for the group of foreign-born women. There is also discrimination on the labour market and at the Employment Service. Foreign-born women work more often part-time, have more often precarious forms of employment and are not allowed to take part in the necessary increases in skills. This, in turn, means that women in particular will find it much more difficult to meet the requirements for permanent residence permits and family reunification. Building such an injustice based on inequality is not acceptable to the Left Party, nor should it be for other parties that want to promote equality. And above all, it should be completely unthinkable even for a government that actually calls itself feminist. We also know that what is being proposed will deny children their right to their parents, a right which is absolutely essential, above all, in the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. We also know that the uncertainty resulting from temporary residence permits hinders the development of children and that it is an obstacle to the treatment and recovery of children affected by the horrors of war and terror. The fact that a government that has made the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law at the same time introduces laws that are clearly an obstacle to children's rights is unreasonable. We also know from research into trauma and torture injuries that the prerequisite for healing is an end to escape. Temporary residence permits and concerns about a divided family hinder this. This, in turn, means that it is precisely the one with protection reasons based on torture and war injuries that will have the most difficulty in meeting the demands that are now being proposed. The reason for protection becomes an obstacle to a permanent residence permit or to seeing your family again. It's upsetting. When the flight to Europe has become even more dangerous over the years, due to government and EU policies, it is the men who have fled while the women and children have been left behind – so that they do not drown in the Mediterranean. The result of both government and blue-brown proposals is that women and children are forced to remain in war and refugee camps as a result of livelihood and housing requirements that cannot be met. We also know that the reversal of Swedish asylum law is based on false premises. Stricter legislation does not affect the number of asylum seekers, and fewer asylum seekers do not improve integration. It is how we invest in society and people in it that determines how well we succeed. The number of asylum seekers in Sweden had already decreased when the Restrictions Act came into force. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast shows that the number of asylum seekers is only very little affected by a return to the Aliens Act. We certainly know all this, Madam President. This can be seen from the extensive research and knowledge available in this area, from the evidence produced in the work of the Migration Committee, from the government's own impact assessment, from extensive research calls and from the experiences in civil society that five years of the Restrictions Act have given us. And yet — still! – both the government and the blue-brown opposition put forward proposals that run counter to this knowledge. They put forward proposals whose stated purpose is to discourage people from seeking protection in Sweden by making it an even worse country to live in. It should be a difficult political vision to make the country worse, Madam President, and yet it is precisely this that unites the proposals of the government and the blue-brown opposition: the desire to make Sweden a worse and more secure country by treating people on the run so badly that they do not want to be here. Had the government and the blue-brown meant seriously with their concern that new arrivals will suffer from overcrowding due to housing shortages or unemployment due to insufficient language skills, the conversation should have been about how to build Sweden more spacious and stronger by investing in society and people in it – in housing building, in sfi from day one and in the welfare society that has historically proved to be the most important and effective integration engine, even in an international comparison. But the discussion is not about that, because it is not the reality but the opportunity to participate in the competition to blame social problems on refugees who are of interest to the majority of this House. One wonders how we ended up here, Madam President. The Swedish Government chose in autumn 2015 to present the Restrictions Act, on the grounds that Sweden – for some time, it said – needed to reduce the number of asylum seekers in order to manage and improve reception in the long term. The government said that fewer asylum seekers would want to go to Sweden if the Swedish legislation was adapted to the EU minimum level. The government felt that this would also encourage other EU countries to take greater responsibility. The government claimed that the legislation would only be temporary. Precisely the chance of the law was used by the government as a supporting argument to make restrictions that a massive number of referrals – authorities, knowledgeable – opposed. The second main argument was that the legislation was needed for a limited period of time to equip the reception in the future. The Left Party was strongly opposed. We warned that this day would come. We warned that, in the long term, temporary legislation was in danger of being permanent and that acceptance of this new minimum level would create political conditions for continuing to restrict the rights of asylum seekers in other European countries as well. Unfortunately, we can now conclude that we were right. I wish it weren't like that. During this shameful so-called breathing room, Sweden has not equipped society for a better continued reception. At the same time, other EU countries have used Sweden's reduced responsibility as an argument for evading their responsibilities themselves. Ultimately, this irresponsible spiral risks undermining the foundations of the right of asylum. When the world's richest countries, including Sweden, gradually step back from their treaty promises, it is difficult to see why the world's poorest countries – where the majority of the world's refugees are – should want to fulfill theirs. The Migration Committee was set up to develop a long-term sustainable migration policy that would be humane, legally secure and effective when the Restrictions Act expires. Much can be said of the work done in the Migration Policy Committee, on which the proposals of the previous government and the blue-brown ones are based, but in common, the starting point was taken into account in the Restrictions Act – which has never been evaluated – and in an interpretation of the words Madam President, I would like It is the fact that people around the world are forced to flee for their lives, which is a problem, not that some of them want to seek shelter in Sweden. On the contrary, it is something we are and should be proud of. The fact that Sweden is known as a country where people's rights are respected and where women and children are also human beings and are well placed to realize their life ambitions is something we should protect and strengthen. But for this to continue in the future, active action is needed in this House. The proposals presented both by government and by blue-brown opposition represent a paradigm shift in how the majority have historically viewed rights in Sweden. While in the past we saw rights as a key to integration – as something that will open doors for all of us to become part of society and thus be able to fulfil our obligations – this proposal is part of a shift towards viewing rights as a reward that some may receive if, against all odds, they manage to get through the closed doors. Such a shift in the perception of rights not only has consequences for those covered by it in a first step, but has consequences for everyone in society. The Left Party strongly opposes such a development. Ultimately, the question is what kind of country Sweden should be in the future. the recognition that the removal of rights never ceases to include specific groups of obligations; The asylum law was created not for days of peace and freedom but for difficult times when mankind is showing off its very worst sides. In the ruins of the destruction and dangers of World War II, which then drove 60 million people into flight, the realization came that a promise between states is needed in order to guarantee people a safe haven from war, persecution and torture in the future. Historically, we see – from failed international attempts to agree to save Jews from the impending Holocaust in 1938, through a strengthened migration legislation in Sweden during the Balkan war and to the failure of the present to find common responsibility in the EU – that it is much easier for states to agree to close borders and tighten up legislation than to decide on systems that save lives. Every time the promise is tested, we hear the same thing we hear here today: This leads to integration problems. Someone else has to take responsibility. We know what it has meant historically, Madam President. That is why the right to asylum, the special status of refugee status and the resulting rights into society are fundamental rights that must be defended in our society and internationally, today and tomorrow. We in the Left Party will never accept lies and inverted arguments that the best way to combat overcrowding and child poverty is to divide families, keep children waiting in overcrowded refugee camps to reunite with their parents and re-examine residence permits over and over again. Instead, we want to invest in our society and in the people who live here. We regard the right of asylum as an international insurance policy for those of us who must flee. The two ideas do not conflict with each other, however much it is claimed in this House. We will always defend a future that holds both parts. It is therefore quite self-evident for us to call for a rejection of the proposal in favour of a return to the Aliens Act, and I therefore call for reservation 1. Since many people have been caught up in the unreasonable and legally uncertain fluctuations of the past few years, I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 15, of amnesty for the children who came alone without parents and a review of how others who have been caught can get redress. Furthermore, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 17, on an investigation of the rule of law in all parts of the asylum process – the gods should know that this will be necessary. Madam President, I would like Normally, we would abstain from voting on other points relating to the bill if our rejection does not go through, but these are no ordinary times. Faced with the choice between two evils – the government's proposal and the blue-brown opposition – we in the Left Party take responsibility for doing the least bad. The government's proposal is with few exceptions at the bottom level, but there are small sparkles of light that would go out without the Left Party's votes. This applies, for example, to the proposal on humanitarian grounds, which in the Government's proposal is somewhat wider than in the blue-brown proposal, as well as to the possibility for quota refugees to count three months' exemption from the supply requirement from the date on which they arrive in Sweden. In particular, the proposals of the blue-brown parties would exacerbate the situation even more, for example by removing small but necessary derogations for supply requirements and permanent residence permits or by removing the three-month period for supply requirements for alternative protection. That is why, Madam President, we will vote in favour of the government's proposal on a wide range of points when our proposal on rejection falls – not because it is good but because the alternative is worse. To all parents and children in divided families who are listening now, to unaccompanied minors and families with children who have been caught in this unworthy race to the bottom and to the civil society that fights every day, against all odds, I would say: your children also have the right to security, freedom and family. Your lives and your future count. I promise that we in the Left Party will do everything in our power to actually vote through migration legislation in the future that makes Sweden a better place than a worse place, with more rights and opportunities instead of fewer. That work I will continue with you.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-428	Madam President, I would like We have had a number of lines here; for example, I have had lines with the Social Democrats and the Center Party. There are some differences of opinion, but basically there are seven parties in this Parliament who are behind a great deal in this report. The Left Party is different here, because it is demanding that the whole thing be rejected. To sum up, Madam President, the left-wing party's migration policy means that everyone who comes to Sweden should basically be given a permanent residence permit here. In addition, there should be no requirement for you to have a job or a home in order to bring your family here. One should also be able to broaden the circle of people to come. There should also be no requirement to learn the language or any requirement to work in Sweden. In addition, those who may still be refused should be able to get an amnesty and stay in any case. There should be no requirement for the return of people who have been refused. One should not – at least not certain groups – have any obligation to state one's identity. In addition, the Left Party wants to remove the European Union's agreements with Turkey and, in practice, dismantle the European Union's external border protection. I believe, Madam President, that this overall would lead to an increase in inflow to Sweden of perhaps a quarter of a million people per year. I wonder if the Left Party has wondered where these people will live. The risk is that we are channeling tens of thousands of people straight into the already most vulnerable areas of Sweden, in a brutal class society and an increase in poverty and with very little opportunity to get a job. However, all the other parties in this House are trying to deal with target conflicts resulting from migration, but for the Left Party this is completely blown away. My simple question is, how is this going to work out?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-435	Madam President, I would like I understand that it must be absolutely incredible for Fredrik Malm to imagine this. One can have a foreign law that respects the conventions, so that we get a practice that is legally certain. In the past, we have debated the rule of law, which is clearly capable of being looked at in greater detail. It is perfectly possible both to do this and to combat what is the result of aggressive class politics. I don't think that Sweden has serious problems with class divisions. Inequality in Sweden is increasing fastest throughout the OECD; it is extremely serious. How do you fight this? By removing some of the people in society or by creating a different economic policy and investing in society and people? My alternative is the other one. Even if Fredrik Malm stands and looks at how many people this could mean, there is no knowledge that the number of asylum seekers and the rate of integration are linked, but it is about what investments we make in society. For the Left, it is quite obvious that we need to make strong investments in a society where we become more, just like when you become more in a family. For the bourgeoisie and the blue-brown gang, to which Fredrik Malm now belongs, that is not the case, of course. There you will always choose the upper class in the first place. It will now, with the feature of the brown, also be a question of where a person was born. That will not be the case for the Left Party. It is perfectly possible to do both. I understand that this is very strange in the political debate that we are having today, but I hope and believe that it will not be for much longer.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-443	Madam President, I would like No, it is not at all surprising to try to pursue a migration policy that complies with international conventions. This proposal does, of course. I have some comments on the government proposal – a lot, indeed – but I cannot claim that it would violate the right of asylum or our international commitments. The problem in this is that we also have a nation to take responsibility for. We have a Sweden where 10 million people live and where we have seen increased polarisation and an increasingly tougher situation in many residential areas. No one – nor the Left Party – could have escaped the situation. If Christina Höj Larsen goes from Helgeandsholmen to T-Centralen and takes the subway a few stations north, she will notice that the situation looks pretty bad in many places. If we pursue a migration policy that is completely disconnected from the development we have in our country and in our vulnerable areas, we risk aggravating the situation. I can promise Christina Höj Larsen that those who take the fall when we make the situation worse are not those who live on Strandvägen, on Östermalm, in Djursholm, in Täby or on Lidingö. Those who get to take that blow are those who live in Järvafältet, in Gårdsten, in Angered or in Rosengård. They are the ones who get to take the big blow of increased insecurity, of increased social wear and of an increased class society. It is a question that somewhere comes back to the Left Party. This is the question that seven other parties here in the Riksdag are trying to deal with and think about, but that the Left Party has not even begun to think about: Should everyone be granted permanent residence permits directly without demands for jobs and language skills? And should large groups of people be able to come as relatives without even having a home? If those who are rejected are to stay anyway, if we dismantle the EU's external border protection and stop the agreement with third countries around us, what is the consequence, Christina Höja Larsen? Does not the Left Party still have to think about what happens next with such a policy?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-447	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Liberals were once known as a knowledge party. It was a long time ago, and perhaps it is also the type of voters who have disappeared from the Liberals – I do not know. But we know a lot of things, and I mentioned some of them in the speech. What we know is that the policy currently being pursued, as proposed by the Liberals, is countering integration. For example, we know that language requirements and other requirements are the most difficult for those who need them most. It is a concerted research that fully agrees on it. The liberals who were once a knowledge party are not anymore. Now it's more important for you to be friends and hang out with the new gang. Yes, there are conflict goals in a society. To me, they are clear in class society. When I meet my friends who live on the Järva field, in Skarpnäck and in other areas, I see the results of an aggressive class policy conducted by bourgeois parties for a long time, parties that now blame those who just arrived. And I promise, Fredrik Malm, that it is not the only ones who have created the furious privatisation of the marketing school. It is not people from Syria who have made sure that they now choose schools here and there. It's not like that. You are trying to cover up your failures by blaming others, and you are not taking in the extensive knowledge of how integration is best done. It's sad.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-453	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my deep respect for the very emotional and committed speech by Christina Höj Larsen. The Center Party and the Left Party do not share the same view on all migration policy issues, but I am very grateful that the Left Party is fighting for people on the run. However, I would like to ask a specific question. The Center Party stands up for regulated immigration and believes that if we are to help people escape in the future, we will focus on the most vulnerable. We will help those who have protection reasons, and those who are refused will return. That is the only way to maintain regulated immigration and, in this way, to be a country that, in the long term, helps people seeking protection in our great country. I wonder if the Left Party thinks it important for people who have been rejected to return and if the Left Party has any suggestions as to how we can increase the return.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Jonny Cato, for the questions! Yeah, we think it's important. The Left also stands up for regulated immigration. But what we have seen in the last many years is, among other things, what Jonny Cato is addressing about the rule of law. We see people who are rejected on completely wrong grounds and LGBT people who will not return to Uganda, because they would then lose their lives. We see families from Afghanistan who are unable to protect themselves in Afghanistan. There are a number of flaws and errors where I think me and Jonny Cato share the picture that there is a lot to do. In such a situation, we need to ensure that there are doors in, so that we do not get shadow communities and people, such as Palestinians, living in Sweden for ten twelve years and never get a chance to enter. It's not good for them, and it's not good for society. But for a lot of people, even in Left Party Sweden, it will be that you need to return. The question is again, just as we have talked about earlier here today: What do we know about what works? I think the best thing would be for us to start from that. And what we know about it is that it doesn't work well to take people's money, support and housing, because the police have no idea which park bench they should look for people on or have conversations with them on. What we know is that it works with careful return work, such as what the Red Cross, among other things, works very actively with. Discussions are held with the individual who also receives financial support and opportunities to return. There's talk of whips, custody and fences, but that's not really what works. I wish that in this area, as in the rest of migration policy, we could focus on what we know about what works.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-462	Madam President, I would like The Left Party and the Center Party have some similar views on legal certainty and such issues. But that is not what we are discussing, but the return itself. I can only say that I believe that quite a lot of parties in this House see the need for a better, more effective and coherent return policy, because it has been so flawed for many years and has also led to increased exclusion. Nevertheless, I think that the Left Party is guilty of the answer, because we are having a great debate today and have many suggestions to make, but I do not have in the Left Party's proposals and that which we also support some sort of proposal on how to achieve a better, more coherent and more effective return. There are certainly different motives for parties in this House to think that a return is important. As far as I am concerned, we should also be able, in the long term, to be a country that gives priority to those who have reasons for protection.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-465	Madam President, I would like The increased exclusion, for example, is something that this House has created, among other things, by making the changes in the LMA and depriving people of the possibility of the small livelihood and the housing they had. Guess what happens then. You'll never believe it. What do people do to make a living if they don't have money? The options are not very many when you are not allowed to work. Where do people live if they are not entitled to a dwelling? The options are not very many. It is you who together have created and increased this alienation. What I am saying, and which is actually true and also a bit laborious, is that a return job takes time. It requires a very close conversation and cooperation with the returnee and to create the conditions to do so. Of course, it does not work very well in this House when it comes to ankle shackles and that kind of thing. But that's what really works. The Left Party has put quite a lot of such suggestions into our motions, which we are happy to discuss. It's about accuracy and giving people financial conditions and security – the Swedish National Audit Office also gave a lot of criticism that this doesn't work well – and we would like to do that. But putting a anklet on people or making sure that even more people end up in the hands of criminals will not help. It's bad for people, and it's bad for society. That is not the policy of the Left Party.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-467	Madam President, I would like Community should apply to all, not just some. That is not the case today. Sweden has broken down. We have more than 20 areas defined by the police as particularly vulnerable areas. This means areas where there is an inability to participate in legal proceedings, where it is difficult or almost impossible for the police to fulfil their mission and where there are to some extent parallel social structures and extremism. They are located around our country – in Växjö, Gothenburg, my hometown Örebro, Borås, Malmö, Södertälje, Linköping, Stockholm, Västra Frölunda, Landskrona and Uppsala. In total, more than half a million people now live in what is known as risk areas, vulnerable areas and particularly vulnerable areas. Half of the women there say they feel insecure at night. Fewer and fewer debaters today deny that there is a link between an overly generous migration policy and an inefficient integration policy. The Christian Democrats' response is clear and to be trusted: we will not contribute to a migration policy that is unrelated to our ability to integrate. Times have changed. I have become 54 years old and think that 20 years ago I had dismissed today's news reports as grotesque exaggerations. At least I had felt that this could not be about Sweden. However, reports of humiliation, parallel societies, repression of honour, criminal gangs forcing the police to retreat, increasing unemployment and long-term unemployment as well as attacks on bluelight personnel have become commonplace. This is the reality that we need to address and which I want to address. Then I see that a tight migration policy is an absolutely necessary and decisive measure. But this is far from the whole picture. There are many points of light. For me as a priest and parishioner it was during all the years I worked a privilege with all the hope-inspiring human fates I got to share and all the communities I got to be a part of. I remember so well our language cafés, meeting places for women from different religions, our cycling training and much more as we did in our congregation to make a difference. Civil society is by far a very important engine in the integration work that must come to the fore when people come here to Sweden. I know how much laughter but also belief in the future is created there. But this other picture also exists, and it is the one that prompts us to change. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations that we Christian Democrats have in order to achieve a better migration policy. Of course, I am also in favour of the parts which Maria Stenergard has explained. However, I also call for the approval of reservation 11. It is our own reservation from the Christian Democrats on a future migration policy where we have a reception at the level of our Nordic neighbours, where the asylum trial is legally secure and the one who has received a no leaves the country, where families with children are held together, where those with the greatest need for protection are prioritised and where we create more legal ways in and seek solutions for this at EU level. Madam President, I would like The legitimacy of so-called regulated immigration is based on the fact that we know who has the opportunity to be in our country, whether it is time-limited or permanent. That is not the case today. The fact that we have major problems with the identity issue is an understatement. Our own border police officer states that we have a parallel society that is only growing and we have lost control of who is here. In 2017, the Finnish Immigration Service assessed that there were close to 60,000 individuals who registered two or more identities with the agency. Then it should be added that the authority in the same breath pointed out that the number of darkness was great. So there are more. The 2017 clarified identity report states that if an asylum seeker's identity cannot be clarified, a residence permit can still be granted to foreigners who have come here for reasons other than their need for protection. How many, then, prove their identity by the asylum seekers? The latest figures I found – there may be more recent ones – show that in 2011 – 2016 there were between 81 and 91 percent of asylum seekers who lacked passports. This is, I think, a direct consequence of the fact that we have a system in which the identity of an asylum seeker can be determined as likely to be one-sided on the basis of his or her oral story. We also have a legal position from this year where the Migration Agency says that in some cases a residence permit can be issued even though the identity has not been made likely. There are several reports proving that we need to take a look at this identity issue in order to clarify the identity of foreigners. We Christian Democrats are now trying to make a series of such proposals on how we can proceed in order to get this right. Here today, however, is on the table of the Riksdag an opportunity to take such a step in order to better establish the identity of foreigners. The Christian Democrats and the Liberals have put forward a proposal that identification should be linked to the granting of permanent residence permits. We see it as a minimum requirement that those who get the right to reside in Sweden should also permanently make their identity clear. There is only one vote missing so that we in Parliament can take such a step. Madam President, I would like To clarify someone's identity is about legal certainty. Another aspect of the rule of law is, of course, that we also have a process in which the decisions taken are to be trusted. In this House, I have raised the issue of the treatment of convertibles on several occasions during the parliamentary term. I have pointed out that the process leaves some things to be desired. This criticism has not been waved away by the government, but adjustments have been made to the Migration Agency's regulations to better deal with cases where the applicant refers to risks due to his religious beliefs. Although we have a system that stands very well in an international comparison with regard to legal certainty, which I believe we have, this shows, with the adjustments in respect of converts, that it is possible to improve legal certainty. What's good can get better. This is something that Sweden should always strive for, I think. The Christian Democrats' demand that we have a very tight migration policy for a long number of years to come rests on maintaining a high level of legal certainty at the same time. We find that the present system in which the authorities themselves review their procedures and follow up their work is not enough. Here today we have a reservation in which we believe that an investigation should be set up to review whether and how the rule of law during the asylum process can be strengthened. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats were in the Migration Policy Committee pushing for a so-called humanitarian valve to be found again in our migration legislation. It is not okay for a residence permit of this type to be granted only if it would be contrary to a Swedish convention obligation to reject or expel the foreigner. In the joint committee initiative, M, SD, KD and L propose a return to the more limited humanitarian valve proposed by the Migration Committee. I believe that this is directly necessary. The Finnish Immigration Service considers that the Government's proposal for humanitarian protection will not only be used in exceptional cases. The government even admits in the bill that more people will be able to benefit from this particular protection base. But then this is no longer a valve, but a new form of protection that will give residence permits to people who have no reason for asylum and who can also have a valid refusal decision. This is extremely ominous. The government is now proposing a policy in which a 'no' will increasingly be able to turn into a 'yes'. This will lead to an increased search pressure in a situation where we know that Sweden must limit the search pressure. That is why we believe it is necessary for the proposal for a new humanitarian protection base to return to being a humanitarian valve and nothing else. Madam President, I would like The information on economic exclusion is now coming close in a number of different reports. Parliament's investigation service has concluded that 675 000 foreign born are not self-sufficient. Entrepreneurship Forum shows that it takes 20 years for people who have come to Sweden from the Middle East to become self-sufficient, and then the limit of self-sufficiency is set to have a salary of at least SEK 15 500 per month. This means that if 100 people came here from the Middle East in 2001, 50 people today, 2021, are still dependent on benefits for their living. At the same time, we have a pension system based on working for 40 years to fund our own pension. Estimates from the Swedish Pension Agency show that the 100,000 who received a residence permit after 2015 will cost taxpayers SEK 80 billion net. Income pension will be increased through taxes and contributions by 70 billion, but the basic protection to which all people are entitled, i.e. old age support and housing allowance financed from the state budget and not through the pension system, will cost 150 billion SEK. In addition, a recent SCB report, the Central Bureau of Statistics, showed that 54% of children born abroad live with a low economic standard, and it turns out that this standard has ethnic pre-signs. While 54% of foreign born children live below the low economic standard, the same figure for native born children is 16%. Here I see that there is a clear link to the employment rate, i.e. whether you have a job or not, because of the record number of people who are currently long-term unemployed, two out of three are born abroad. These, I think, are figures that should shake us all for a variety of reasons. What appears to be very important from these examples is that we take up the proposal of the Migration Policy Committee to introduce a language and social orientation requirement for a permanent residence permit. You don't do that, you push it into the future. I have criticised that in the past, and I am criticising it now. I think it is important that we try to get this in place as soon as possible. Before the pandemic hit its claws in our country, I, like many of you, had the privilege of going around and meeting people in different places in Sweden. I met people in small and large companies, and as a migration policy spokesperson for the Christian Democrats, I always asked the question: What is it necessary for you to hire a person who has come here to Sweden? The answer I got was: the language, the language, the language. We do not see any reason whatsoever to wait to introduce language and social orientation requirements into the law now. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to agree with the criticism made by Moderate Member of Parliament Maria Malmer Stenergard about the process that has taken place until we received a bill on the table of Parliament. Those of us on the Migration Policy Committee know that we were working on an absolute deadline in the summer a year ago. It was set for us to count backwards, that is, when do we have to be ready on the committee so that everything with referrals and other things to be done around such an important piece of legislation will be given the time needed for everyone to feel confident that everything has been done? I can see that this proposal was late, just like the Council of Law referral, and I would like to make it clear in this House that I do not think this is okay.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-494	Madam President, I would like I have learned that the Christian Democrats are in favour of a livelihood requirement even for children who have come alone to Sweden and want to be reunited with their parents. I think like this in summer vacations on my own kids going out and working a little summer. I know, for example, that children under the age of 13 are only allowed to work in the extreme exception. For 16- and 17-year-olds, as for my daughter, it is not a violently large amount of money that can be made up. The reason we no longer have child labour in Sweden is that we think that children should be in school. I think it seems to be a very good basic principle that has built this country and served it well. The Christian Democrats do not seem to think so. I wonder, of course, whether Mr Eklind can tell us what kind of child labour is envisaged and how it is thought that this could be compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child at all.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-497	Madam President, I would like The short answer is that we want to stop family fragmentation. We want to stop parents sending their children out on absolutely life-threatening ways to get to a country and act as a connecting person for the rest of the family to follow. That is the short answer. We see that this with unaccompanied people, as it is called, is a problem that we have had in Sweden. I think it's a problem for the simple reason that if you're a kid, you should be with your parents. Then the thought on the part of the Christian Democrats becomes: Can we somehow stop the driving forces that send your child away from home to get to a foreign country, probably also with a foreign culture and language? This is what the Christian Democrats' proposal is all about. We say that the dependency requirement applies to everyone except their own children under the age of 18. That is the basic principle. We see this as a very serious problem, and that is why we want to put an end to it. Then we've seen this technique. I would like to inform Christina Höja Larsen that there are other EU Member States there, for example – I think it is in the Czech Republic – a minor cannot be a connecting person at all. There are other Member States, two or three in number, which have also tried to find models for this. This is about us somehow having to get to the root of parents sending their children into the hands of people who are smuggling drugs and people. The children are being exploited. I know that the Member of Parliament, just as I have heard stories about what is happening not only on the road to Sweden but also about what is happening in Sweden with these young people who have managed to get here.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-503	Madam President, I would like This was one of the ice coldest things I've ever heard. The honourable Member is therefore responsible for ensuring that families do not split up, so that they want to lay down a requirement for the livelihood of children whom they know they will not be able to meet, which means that they will not actually have their right to family life. That's the technique we've seen, said Hans Eklind. That, Madam President, seems to me to be a freezing statement. It also indicates that the honourable Member has little knowledge of how it works in war and conflict. It is extremely common for families to be separated. One of the basic tasks of the Red Cross is to try to reunite people who have separated. We also know that the myth of anchor children, which the Christian Democrats are building very actively, is not really true. What I am hearing today is a Christian Democrat who thinks that it is possible to effectively prevent children from having their right to family life fulfilled by making demands on their livelihoods that they are unable to meet. That is a sad answer, Madam President.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-506	Madam President, I would like It seems that this shift is mostly about trying to mark other people's policies. In view of the extremism of the Left-wing party on migration policy, I can assure the honourable Member that I will not sit down and find out what the honourable Member knows. I have never questioned the honourable Member's knowledge, but I hear and note that when you disagree with the Left Party, it must obviously be due to a lack of knowledge. The honourable Member and everyone who listens to the debate should take on board one thing: we need to get to grips with this with family fragmentation. The Christian Democrats will never contribute to a system that actually encourages family fragmentation. We've been thinking about ways to counteract it. One such way is to ensure that those who intend to send their son away in advance should not think that Sweden is the country to which he is to be sent. There must be a supply requirement, so that he does not come here. We would like to attract more parties, first and foremost more parties in the Swedish parliament but also more countries, to follow our proposal. The big problem with the Christian Democrats' proposal is if Sweden alone does this; if other countries offer incentives that allow families to send a teenage boy from the family and in the hands of smugglers it will not stop it. So it is important to try to find solutions at a higher international level if it is to have a full effect.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-509	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats usually claim to be the party of families. You can question parts of it in substance. Custody allowances and such things have been up in the past. I'm not going to immerse myself in that. But strikingly often one has still had a family and children's perspective as its starting point. But when it comes to people on the run, you don't have a child's perspective. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Christian Democrats a question. Prior to the vote, the Christian Democrats have joined forces with other parties to restrict the possibility of family reunification. Instead of letting them live together, why should parents be kept separate from their children?
i-Y189eEC6CtTPbBUvrgcCEu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! I will begin with the custody allowance, which has been up to date in the debate. We call it childcare allowance in itself, and we propose that it should apply when the child is between one and three years old. We Christian Democrats often say that we want to bring the search pressure down to the Nordic level, and we note that in the other Nordic countries they have custody grants. In Finland it is 3 000 SEK a month, in Norway it is 6 000 SEK a month and in Denmark they have made it a municipal issue. A few days ago I noticed that in Copenhagen it is 8 000 SEK a month. Attempts are being made to suggest that child care allowance, or childcare allowance as we call it, would be a problem in some way. I'd like to see proof of that. It plays out that immigrant women would then choose not to start working. But there were very few immigrant women who applied for custody allowance when it existed. Moreover, tragically, we have a very low employment rate among women in particular. Rasmus Ling asks about the children's perspective. I assume that the Member of Parliament has tried to read at least part of our motion. Then he sees that we have a child's perspective. It even says literally that Sweden will live up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other relevant conventions. In addition, we have a proposal that children under the age of 18 may be reunited with their parents. That's what I call a child's perspective.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-516	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really going to go into the custody allowance. It was more an example of when the Christian Democrats have landed completely wrong in family policy. What existed last time was something that municipalities had the opportunity to introduce. Fortunately, it was far from all the municipalities that did it. But it was bad politics. Many children who had a need to attend preschool to learn the Swedish language did not. As I said, I was not going to go into it, but this is why the Christian Democrats want to keep parents apart from their children to a greater extent than the government proposes in the bill. The Christian Democrats may have written as they did in their motion. However, in the sharp legislative proposals that we will take a position on, there are milder variants from the opposition for those who are alternatively in need of protection, quota refugees and other exceptions, and they do not want the Christian Democrats. It means making things more difficult. Parents are made more difficult to live with their children. Hans Eklind and I have both children and can hardly imagine what it would be like to have their children in a refugee camp in another country. I think all parents in the whole world share that feeling. This is inhuman politics. I think, Madam President, that a party that claims to be protecting the family should stand for parents and children not to be separated.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-520	Madam President, I would like The committee initiative referred to by the Member of Parliament is a compromise. We have never said and will never say that what fits within that initiative is Christian-democratic policy. It does not allow us to know what the Christian Democrats think when we are allowed to speak entirely on our own instead of trying to form a community that could stop an even worse alternative, namely the bill that Rasmus Ling's party has been involved in negotiating. It is important to keep it separate. And I know that the Member of Parliament knows about it. My own family, my mom and dad and two siblings, moved to the United States. I know that Mom and Dad never felt at all strange that, in order for Dad to take Mom and my two sisters there, they demanded that he be able to support them. In the American context, it was a non-question. It was rather the opposite that was tricky, that you should bring people that you cannot support to a country. We have now, together with the other parties, put forward a proposal that those who are to be reunited with their family – that is something that we Christian Democrats have always stood up for – should also be able to support their relatives. In the case of alternative protection, there is the possibility for us to impose such a supply requirement from day one. We can't do that with refugees. There's a three-month window. I think that's perfectly reasonable. I also believe that it contributes to giving this opportunity to the person who comes here to reunite with his family. But with a livelihood requirement, that person will make sure that you learn languages and make yourself employable as soon as you can, precisely so that in such cases you can reunite with your family. So I see it as both a family policy and a policy that provides incentives to encourage people to do so.
i-H8Ui5ssUfTFkbixzquCXp1	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' Amendment No 16 to be approved in the report and also for paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 of the report. The decision that we have this afternoon to make here in the Swedish Parliament on a new Foreigner's Act is undoubtedly the most important decision of fact policy during this Parliamentary Session. A long-term sustainable migration policy is extremely important for Sweden. Our regulations are today a patchwork of temporary laws, exceptions, complements and, in some cases, special legislation. It is neither sustainable, well thought out nor legally secure. What happens if we do not manage to deal with these issues in Sweden? Well, if Sweden is not able to handle migration policy, the biggest blow will be taken by the people who are born abroad, the people who do not look – as some now say – to purs Swedish and the people who are born elsewhere, who have a break and who are perceived as immigrants. If we in the Swedish Parliament are unable to build a long-term sustainable and functioning migration policy, they will have to take the fall. If so, racism, polarization and exclusion are growing. That is what we have seen when politics has not worked before. The decision we are going to take this afternoon, Madam President, is based on the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Migration, which came in September last year. The starting points of the liberals' work have been very clear. Firstly, the Liberals defend the right of asylum. It is an individual right to seek asylum. Sweden should be a country that provides protection to refugees and persons in need of protection. We'll take our share of responsibility. We're a rich country. We have the capacity to give a future to people who, under very severe hardships, have been forced from their homes because of war and persecution. We shall do this on a scale that our society can cope with. Today, in large parts of Sweden, there are huge challenges of exclusion, social vulnerability, parallel communities, poverty and crime. Sweden should primarily focus on those who are granted consent to their applications, i.e. those who have been granted a legal right to stay in Sweden. We do not have the capacity today to devote great resources, power and energy to people who lack sufficient protection needs and are denied asylum applications by our authorities and courts. Here the Liberals differ slightly from the parties further to the left, which mainly focuses on those who are rejected. We believe that it should above all be the people who are granted consent and have the legal right to reside in Sweden that we must focus on. It's a big task just that. It is about women, children and traumatized people from the genocide in Congo, the genocide in Syria and the breakdown around the world. Madam President, I would like Liberals protect good integration in Sweden. We want to create a land of opportunity. In this concept there is also an expectation of those who want to live in Sweden. It is an expectation that you get a job, learn basic Swedish and follow our laws and regulations. We believe that such requirements are very important for integration to work, and it is very important that the signal from Swedish society is clear that this is also something we expect from new arrivals. We are very strongly opposed to large groups of newcomers being driven into poverty, dependency on benefits and a very brutal class society in socially vulnerable areas in practice. This development must be broken and reversed. In our party, Madam President, over the past year we have worked out a comprehensive policy in what we call the suburban lift. We in the Liberals defend an ambitious Swedish reception of resettled people, those who in everyday terms are called quota refugees. These are people who come to Sweden from the United Nations refugee camp. In our view, a generous reception of resettled people means that we are giving a legal road to Europe for more people. It can provide a new life in security for many vulnerable people, especially women and children. We also see the need for a labour migration to the Swedish business community so that you can cope with the supply of skills. It should be said, however, that this is not dealt with very much in the report, Madam President. It has to do with the fact that there are other investigations dealing with these issues. The Liberals, however, would like to stress that it is important that the disqualifications of qualifications cease. There should be rules for labour immigration that are reasonable and do not lead to cheating and exploitation. Madam President, I would like Liberals have been very concerned about the need for a broad agreement across the border on immigration policy. If migration policy is to be sustainable in the long term, it must also be able to survive election movements and government shifts. A broad agreement and agreement would also dampen the very strong polarisation that we in Sweden have in the immigration debate. It in turn triggers an increase in intolerance and racism. In the parliamentary migration committee, Madam President, the Liberals therefore put a great deal of effort and effort into reaching a broad agreement. At the end of the Committee's work negotiations were held between the four bourgeois parties and the Social Democrats. It was with great disappointment that the Liberals noted that the talks were just stranded on the finish line. The reason for this was that neither the Social Democrats nor the Moderates, to be honest, were able to stand up all the way for a broad agreement. Madam President, I would like Today's decision therefore means that a new foreigner's team will largely be pushed through by a middle-left majority with a single mandate overweight. At the same time, this smallest possible majority is trying hard to push the policy in a more generous direction, where large, rejected groups will be granted a residence permit in any case, which risks further increasing polarisation on these issues. The fact that there is a small majority to go in this direction is only due to the fact that the Social Democrats have chosen to make large concessions to the Green Party during the preparation in the Government Office. Otherwise, such a majority would never exist. Stefan Löfven has chosen to allow the demands of the Green Party to guide Social Democracy, and so the Social Democrats have ignored and ignored a series of agreements made in the Parliamentary Migration Committee. The Social Democrats have chosen to put aside the substance of the policy in order instead to meet the Green Party. Several of the proposals that we agreed on in the Migration Committee could have been taken up and made something of. These have not been put in a drawer by the Social Democrats – if it were so well, Madam President – but rather they have locked them in a Franz Jäger cabinet so that they cannot be touched. If so, there is only one person who can access them. It is not possible, Madam President, to build long-term sustainable regulations or long-term confidence in migration policy in this way. One cannot push through very strong shifts with a mandate's excess in parliament and then expect it not to be a battlefield. Unfortunately, that is what will happen. In the proposals that we are now debating, Madam President, we in the Liberals have a number of objections, although we support a great deal. One of our objections concerns the many exceptions that the government wants to make, not least with regard to supply requirements. Liberals believe that it is necessary for the individual and for integration in Sweden that more new arrivals come to work. Introduce numerous and broad exceptions to people's coming to work runs counter to this. It also shows a resignation from the government if it is assumed from the beginning that many new arrivals will not be able to get to work and that Sweden will not even try to maintain a work line even among new arrivals. We are also critical, Madam President, of the concept of a connection with Sweden. It must be more concrete and more clearly defined. According to us, asylum policy should be based on protection, not on how long the processing period has been or how long one has stayed in Sweden. The fact that the government now also wants the more generous children's valve to apply to many adults will, with the broad interpretation of the connection concept taken together, mean that many adults who have been refused their asylum applications and who are also not working and can be granted a work permit can stay and get a residence permit in Sweden in any case. And it will happen only on the basis that they have stayed for some time in our country. It is not reasonable, Madam President, to invoke time spent in Sweden as a humanitarian circumstance to stay, we mean in the Liberals. Madam President, I would like There are a number of further issues in this report. Let me address two of them specifically! If you come to Sweden and you get a residence permit in our country, you should also be able to get your family here, we mean in the Liberals. We think family reunification is very important. There is an exception of three months for refugees of the Geneva Convention, laid down in European law. It's very important. If you are forced to flee and have no other choice, for example if you are an independent journalist in Azerbaijan or Russia, and come to Sweden, you should of course also be able to bring your family here. Then you should not be required to work from day one. However, for large groups of people who come to Sweden, we believe from the Liberals that it is reasonable for them to be able to take responsibility for several other family members. It is necessary if we want to cope with integration and the situation in the affected areas. I do not think, Madam President, that this is in any way too much to ask or that there are unreasonable demands to make. We know how overcrowding affects vulnerable children. We know what the situation in many residential areas in Sweden looks like today. We need to do everything we can to ensure that people get to work and get settled and that children have good growing conditions. Therefore, the Liberals in the Migration Committee have proposed that the three-month exemption from the supply requirement should not apply to the group or to the need for protection. In the preparation of this report, we stand by this. Madam President, I would like The second point I would like to make is that we in the Liberals believe that the rule of law in migration policy really needs to be further strengthened. This can be done by, for example, providing quality enhancements to the Migration Agency and the Migration Courts in order to achieve shorter processing times. This can also be done by providing improved opportunities for further training for decision-makers in public authorities and courts, promoting quality assurance of decision-making processes, quality assurance of interpretation during oral hearings and hearings, and so on. In addition, we in the Liberals think it is very important – it is wise to say it in this party political assembly, Madam President – that there is a review of the nomination of judges to the migration courts. Lawyers, or lay judges, play an important role as public representatives in the application of applicable law. This will also be taken into account in the future. On the other hand, the mandate of the RACs should not be politicised. The survey has shown that there are variations related to party membership in the Council members' positions on migration matters, i.e. that people depending on which party they belong to vote in different ways in different migration matters. This is not quite the same as the fact that the referees generally allow their party political positions to colour their positions. But it is a sign that enough individual referees see their role as party political in order for it to risk influencing the application of law. What makes this particularly sensitive? Well, it is that in migration cases very often it is the case that a case does not get redress in higher courts. It is normal only if there is new practice there. The position of the members of the Board, Madam President, in the Migration Court will therefore normally have a decisive impact on the outcome of the case. It is not reasonable that the possibility of staying in Sweden for persons seeking asylum should be determined depending on the party colour of the referees in the Migration Court. In order to clarify the conflict between politics and the judiciary, a review of the RAC system should be carried out in order to reduce political influence. Of course, party political activists should be able to serve as lay judges, but the mission has nothing to do with party politics. The starting point for the review should therefore be that the panellors in migration courts should not be nominated by the political parties. Madam President, I would like I would have liked this day to have meant if not an end so that we put a number of years behind us and got a long-term sustainable legislation for a reasonable and orderly migration policy in Sweden with respect for the right of asylum and a reception at the level of what our society can handle. But we can't. Instead, we get some kind of half-measures after a political horse-trading in the Government Office. This half-measure is driven through in Parliament by the smallest possible margin and will greatly increase polarisation in the Swedish migration debate in a way that I do not think anyone will benefit from in the end, except for the very loudest people at the far right flank.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-551	Madam President, I would like Four years ago Liberal leader Jan Björklund demanded that the expulsions to Afghanistan be stopped. Four years ago Fredrik Malm was also a spokesperson for the Liberals – correct me if I am wrong. I have a very brief and concise question, Madam President. Does Fredrik Malm think that the security situation in Afghanistan is better today than it was in 2017?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-553	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is not we in Parliament who make that kind of decision. It is, of course, the Migration Agency that, through country information, legal positions and so on, makes decisions about which countries you can return to and not. When it comes to Afghanistan, you have to look at the whole country. It is possible that there are parts of the country to which you can return and that there are internal opportunities to get to a certain part of the country. But there are, of course, also areas where the situation is very unstable. I can mention areas such as W aziristan, Helmand and perhaps Mazar-e Sharif, where we had a Swedish contingent a number of years ago. It can also get worse after the United States and the ISAF force leave the country. Madam President, I would like If the Migration Agency makes a decision to stop expulsions or expulsions to Afghanistan, I am the first to respect and follow it. I think this is important. My argument will then be that the Migration Agency has said this and that is what applies. But as long as the Migration Agency has not said so, I feel that as a Member of Parliament and a decision-maker, responsible for upholding Swedish legislation and regulations, I must be loyal to the legislation we have. Therefore, if an asylum seeker from Afghanistan has received a rejection of his asylum application, I find that I must respect that rejection decision and the decisions of our authorities and courts and therefore also argue in favour of a return. But if the Migration Board considers that it is not possible to extradite to Afghanistan and issue a kind of individual or collective enforcement impediment, it is obvious that I, as a Member of Parliament – and also Rasmus Ling and everyone else in here, I will proceed with that decision.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-557	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm answers a question that I have not asked. I did not ask him what he thinks about expulsions in general or similar. I asked whether the opinion and assessment of the security situation of the Liberal party leader four years ago, when Fredrik Malm was a spokesperson for migration policy, were still valid. I didn't make that statement at the time. It was the Liberals who did it. Then one must reasonably be able to answer whether this is the case today or whether it has changed in some way. Has the security situation changed for the better, or has it changed for the worse? I do not think it is a strange question to ask, given the statement made four years ago by the Liberals. Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm mentions that the regulatory framework we have today means that it is authorities that decide on assessments and, of course, even more on individual cases. That is the order that should apply. I have no other opinion than Fredrik Malm on that. On the other hand, you can think about what the security situation and the world situation are like, just as in the area of other authorities you can think things without wanting to regulate in detail how they should act in individual cases. Madam President, I would like I think Fredrik Malm should be able to answer the question I asked. Is the security situation in Afghanistan better today than it was in 2017?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-560	Madam President, I would like The concern is that it is a little difficult to answer that question given that the situation is very different in different parts of Afghanistan. That's what I was trying to make clear earlier. There may be a big difference between, for example, Kabul or Baluchistan in southern Afghanistan or the northern parts on the border with Tajikistan or Uzbekistan. There may be major differences within the country. It may find opportunities for people to return to one part of the country but not to another part of the country. That is why it is very difficult to see it that way. The question may be asked: Is the situation today in Ukraine worse than it was before or not? I think it's similar in Kiev. But what is the situation in Mariupol, or even further away in the occupied Donbass, Luhansk and Donetsk regions? It is difficult to deal with migration issues in the very banal way of taking a country and saying that it is like this in the country now. I trust that our authorities will make the necessary considerations and assessments about the security situation in different countries. It may be that a person from Afghanistan can return and settle in one part of the country but perhaps not in another part of the country. It's not very unusual, and it also knows Rasmus Ling. Madam President, I would like It's not really good. About 15 years ago we created an order in Sweden. We said that the policy should stay more away from the individual issues of migration policy. We'll rule by law. We got a new court and process order, and they abolished the Foreign Affairs Board and a lot of it. I think it is quite dangerous if we in Parliament start trying to regain this and politicise the individual handling of migration matters in the end again. I think that would be unfortunate.
i-EEe8bGnQx4su4fRXQTHiXn	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 18, 26, 27, 29, 34, 37, 42 and 43 in this comprehensive report. Protecting the right to asylum is one of the major issues of our time. The fact that people on the run who are in need of protection can find refuge in a safe country is a fundamental human right. It's a right that's horrifyingly questioned. It is around Europe, in our neighbouring country Denmark, but this attitude is also represented by parties in the Swedish parliament. That is the meaning of the proposals that we hear. They want trials outside the EU and directly reject those seeking asylum in Sweden. The system built up by enormous efforts since the Second World War as a last resort for the persecuted, tortured and conflict victims is in danger of being compromised. Migration is an extremely important issue for the Green Party as well as for our green sister parties around the world. It is about international solidarity. We raised this issue in 2005 when the Aliens Act and the processes were re-established. We got a court hearing for asylum cases. It was a Easter prop that brought together civil society, churches and five of Parliament's seven parties. We then got through a more generous trial for families with children who were rooted in Sweden. The issue of migration was a priority for the Green Party in the years in which the Alliance Government was in power, and we also had a migration policy settlement. The issue was also important for the Green Party in view of the change of government in 2014. In 2015, the policy changed. There was a lot going on back then. We have talked about this on many occasions both here in this House and elsewhere. The temporary legislation adopted in June 2016 was valid until 2019 and was last extended after the last elections to 2021, i.e. another month. The Green Party already said then that we would fight for more humane rules when the temporary law was due to expire. So have we during this time. Not least, a change was made when the January agreement came about after the lengthy government negotiations, the presidential rounds and everything that was in 2018 and 2019. The change at the time was to enable family reunification for the alternative need for protection so that people could return to family members without having a requirement from day one. At that time, it was something that the Liberals were also involved in, you should remember. It was an important change. I am very pleased that there is something proposed in the Government's proposal to apply in the same way as since then. Another element of the January Agreement was the appointment of a committee to examine a sustainable migration policy. There is no agreement on what is a sustainable migration policy. We have noticed this not least now in the hours that we have debated this issue. We had some parties in the committee that wanted to strengthen the right for the most vulnerable and wanted a humane protection foundation that means that children who have lived in Sweden for a long time, grew up in Sweden, have friends in school and speak Swedish get a chance to stay because of painful circumstances. There were some who worked to ensure that families are not kept divided regardless of the grounds on which the residence permit is based and who also wanted to make it easier for LGBTQ refugees. Madam President, I would like It was two parties in the committee work that ultimately wanted permanent residence permits as a general rule in the way that has applied in Sweden before 2016 for several decades. On behalf of the Green Party, we realised early that it would not be possible to convince others of this. Several parties saw it as an important issue that this should not be the case. We bought it and had to agree to it. Nevertheless, they are important in this context to say that there are no advantages to temporary residence permits. Last year, the Finnish Immigration Service granted 97% of the extension applications in asylum matters. This shows that the need for protection is almost always long. Madam President, I would like If 97 percent, almost all, are extended, one might ask: What is the problem? They will still be allowed to stay because they still have their need for protection. There is still a problem with that, Madam President! It is that the opportunity to get into Sweden – what everyone is talking about – to learn Swedish and get a job is getting worse. Insecureness increases for the individual. An employer usually does not know what the regulatory framework is. If you are able to choose between someone who has a permanent residence permit or Swedish citizenship and someone who has a temporary residence permit, most people will probably find it an uncertainty to hire someone who has a temporary residence permit. The individual and the employer cannot know whether the person receives a renewed residence permit or not. The mental health of the individual is being beaten, and the recovery from a life of war and conflict is being hampered. Madam President, I would like There are no benefits to this, but we in the Green Party have been constructive in this work. We have agreed to things that we did not really want to see, because we have seen that it has been important to bring together a whole that is actually getting better than what has been going on in recent years. Madam President, I would like Barely two weeks ago I was in Örebro at Karolinska High School. I had been invited by a class who wanted to hand over a petition for their classmate Shami. Shami is 16 years old. She has lived in Sweden since she was 11. She lived with her single mother, brother and sister. The father from Syria is deceased and buried in Sweden. Last winter they were told that they would leave Sweden within six days. I accepted the signatures, over 40,000 names. This is what I'm showing is this petition – 817 A4 pages. There are many, and it also shows that when it comes to commitment to someone you know, someone who goes to the same school as your children, there is this solidarity in our country. Among these 40 000 signatures are people who vote for all parties, probably even outside the Riksdag, and who have different political opinions and starting points. But it is agreed in this case that this girl should be allowed to stay. This is not unusual. Even many people who have the impression that there are too many outsiders coming to Sweden may at the same time find it unreasonable how individual cases are handled. Madam President, I would like However, beyond all statistics migration policy is ultimately always about people. The regulations that we decide on in the Riksdag must be followed by the Finnish Immigration Service and the Migration Courts. Neither we Members nor the Minister for Migration can or should do anything about an individual case. Laws must be followed, and the laws that are determined are those that decide whether the girl in Örebro and everyone else can stay or not. Migration is a phenomenon that will not stop. Our task is to manage migration with people's best interests and people's rights in focus. Madam President, I would like The bill we are dealing with here is a negotiated compromise. If we had written it ourselves, it would have been different. This also applies to other parties. That is the case in politics. If you're gonna get things through, you need to talk, compromise, negotiate. I am proud of what the Green Party has achieved in this, both now and before. We have achieved reduced supply requirements for alternative protection and quota refugees. If the bill goes through, we get a humane foundation for protection, for children according to the regulations that applied in the old Aliens Act and for adults with a strong connection to Sweden so that they can stay if there are special reasons. We have shown that the introduction of the Convention on the Rights of the Child as Swedish law is not just empty words but means something. We have previously, in the migration committee that worked this summer, opposed the demands and proposals for volume targets that were discussed in the Migration Committee and that were lifted from several parties. We don't know for a while about these parts that I'm proud and happy to have got through in the bill actually going through. This process has been very different from everything else that I and most others who sit in Parliament have experienced in parliamentary work at all. It is common for us to deal with announcements made by a majority and for the government to come back to Parliament. But it is very rare that there are sharp legislative proposals in the way they do today. This means that it can become a humane foundation that is humane. But it can also be a mini valve. There may be day-to-day subsistence requirements for family reunification, which means that families will be more divided. Madam President, I would like The contribution of society to the few, on the whole and as a proportion, which would be covered by the humanitarian basis is relatively small. But for the individual, the importance is enormous. Rarely or never has a parliamentary vote been more directly decisive for this group. Madam President, I would like We know that three parties in parliament – M, SD and KD – have formed a new bloc. A fourth, the Liberals, has gradually approached these three others. A few months ago, in May, migration policy was a joint action, and the Liberals announced yesterday that this is the option they choose to belong to. If we are to be honest, it was no surprise or shock that washed over us with that message. Yesterday, Madam President, we had a vote of censure on the Prime Minister. Now we have a situation that is uncertain. We do not know what happens, whether there are extra elections or presidential rounds, and what can come out of this. A right-wing nationalist policy and government would be very bad for Sweden. It would be capricious in the area of migration. It would work towards volume targets so that rules would be changed depending on how many will come and where the target would be constantly lowered. It would not be sustainable. It wouldn't be humane. Madam President, I would like I will finish in a moment, but before I do, I would like to thank everyone around Sweden who is tirelessly fighting for refugees' rights. Thanks to everyone who e-mails and writes letters and makes contact in other ways. Thanks to all who participate in manifestations and to all who are family homes or in other ways make a decisive difference in everyday life. There are many organisations that I would like to mention in this context – large and established as the Red Cross, Save the Children and RFSL, but also smaller organisations such as Hold Sweden together, the Ensamkommandes Riksförbund and many others. In fact, Madam President, I would like to read 40 000 names of people who chose to engage with the girl in Örebro. I will not, but I would like to thank everyone who is fighting for this. It's so important.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-602	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking you for an interesting debate here during the day. It may have started a little hateful this morning, but I think the tone has gradually dropped a little bit. This may be because of who is speaking, but it may also be because we have been doing it for almost five hours. Let's see if we run out of oxygen. Perhaps the discussion is taking off again. When the club falls into the table in this House in a few hours' time at the vote on this legislation, a chapter on Swedish migration policy is closed, and another chapter begins. Perhaps not many people believed a few years ago that we would be here today with such a bill. There were many speculations then that this would never work, that we would never get a bill, that we would never be able to deal with these issues. The government was supposed to crack, they said. January cooperation was to cease. We were going to have a government crisis last summer, right in the middle of the pandemic. I think that is what some of the opposition were hoping for. Perhaps that is why parts of the opposition, especially the right-wing opposition, acted as they did in the committee that was then sitting. It became very clear that they did not want a broad agreement but instead wanted a government crisis. That's the most important thing. This was not the case, but a report that we have subsequently been able to work on and proceed with as a bill and legislative proposal to Parliament. This bill also seems to be able to gain support in this House. I understand that there will be a complicated vote, but if everyone votes as they have voted before and no one votes wrong, the bill we have tabled will go through. Maybe that's why the right-wing opposition is so angry. They know that we have now accomplished the task, and they did not think we would. With this bill, Sweden will have a migration legislation that is sustainable in the long term and at the same time, in my opinion, promotes integration and cohesion. It will be sustainable in the long term in such a way that Sweden now has legislation that does not differ significantly from that of other EU countries. In 2014, at the time of the Moderates, Sweden was in practice the only country in the EU to offer permanent residence permits from the first day. We know what it led to. This resulted in Sweden receiving a disproportionate number of asylum seekers in relation to its size – 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU came to Sweden. That was the situation in 2014, when I took office. In 2015, the problem increased further, as we received 163 000 asylum seekers in just one year – sometimes 10 000 a week. So we received 12% of all those who came to Europe during this time. It should be remembered that Sweden's population is about 2% of the EU's population. So it was totally disproportionate. It was also untenable. That is why we tightened the legislation with the temporary law. We did a lot of other things too. We introduced ID checks and border controls and did much else. But we had to tighten up the legislation in such a way that we could deal with the situation and thus reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. That's what happened. The number of asylum seekers decreased sharply already in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Now we are receiving 3% of asylum seekers coming to the EU – much more proportionate than was the case in the past. We now also have the lowest number of asylum seekers in Sweden in 20 years. In this way, we were able to cope with the refugee crisis. Not many people thought we were going to do it either, but we did. Now we are replacing the temporary law with a permanent law, which in practice upholds the basic principles of the tight temporary law. Temporary residence permits become the general rule, as well as subsistence requirements for family reunification. There will be a number of other rules that put Sweden at such a level that we no longer stand out as a country in relation to the other EU countries. We will have legislation that is in parity with the legislation of most other EU countries. At the same time – and it is important to say, not least these days – we are upholding the right of asylum. In my opinion, all countries have a responsibility to ensure that people in need of protection are also protected and that they have a real opportunity to restart their lives in a new country. We who live in the countries where refugees come will show us decent. We will welcome the people who come here and seek shelter. We should not go into a rhetoric where we blame all the problems that exist in a society on immigrants, on those who come here. Then we do not show responsibility in relation to our fellow humans, I think. We will make sure that the people who come here seeking protection feel welcome and that they can become part of our country and our community. So we are upholding the right of asylum, and it is extremely important that we do so. I would also like to say that I am basically proud of everything that Sweden has done in these years – from the political side, of course, but above all from all civil society organisations. They have also been active in this for many years to give the people who have come here an opportunity to restart their lives. Since the war in Syria broke out about ten years ago, Sweden has thus provided shelter for over 180 000 men, women and children. These are people who otherwise could very easily have perished in some bomb plot in Aleppo or Homs. They have now had the opportunity to restart their lives here. It is the greatest humanitarian effort our country has ever made, I would say, and I am fundamentally proud of this. For the vast majority it is also good when they come to Sweden. Last parliamentary term we received many refugees, we did, and there was a big discussion, especially in 2015 and 2016 about what it would mean for unemployment, for state finances, for social assistance. When we left the 2018 term, we were able to conclude that the doomsday prophecies that many had ousted around 2015 and 2016 had actually not come true. It was the other way around. Last term of office reduced unemployment. We created over 350,000 new jobs. Social security benefits fell, and we paid SEK 130 billion on the national debt. It was because, Madam President, the new arrivals who arrived at the time actually got to work faster and faster. The rate of establishment almost doubled during the previous term of office compared with previous terms of office. They got faster and faster at work. Today, of course, it is more difficult. We have a pandemic that has affected the economy throughout the world and not least in Sweden. But I am convinced that, as we gradually emerge from it, unemployment will again be able to fall back. We can already see that. In addition, we already have the highest level of employment in the EU. In fact, there is no other country in the EU where people work more than they do in Sweden. This brings me to the second part of the legislation. Not only will we have legislation that is roughly in parity with the rest of the EU and thus prevent us from getting back into the same situation as in 2015. I believe that the new legislation also promotes integration. That's the second big change. We are creating new incentives for integration through migration legislation for the first time. Again, anyone who needs protection will be protected, in a first step through temporary residence permits. But after three years in Sweden you will be able to apply for a permanent residence permit, and then you will have to meet certain requirements to be able to get it. You're supposed to be able to make a living. One should have basic knowledge of Swedish and how Swedish society works, and one should not have committed any serious crimes. I think these are quite reasonable demands to make. If you now think that you should live in Sweden for a long time and want a permanent residence permit, then you should know Swedish at a basic level. You're supposed to be law-abiding, and you're supposed to be able to make a living. However, these are quite reasonable demands. This is a reasonable balance between rights on the one hand and obligations on the other. As a social democrat, I can also say that I think that this is very well in line with the basic social democratic principles, namely both duty and right. We now also see this in a different way from what has been the case in the past. The debate here has highlighted the social education requirement and the requirement for knowledge of Swedish. Supply and operating requirements are introduced directly into the legislation. We work with the required knowledge of Swedish and the required knowledge of Swedish. We're writing in the bill that that's the way we're going. It has been given the impression that we have put that requirement away and that we do not intend to implement it, but that is wrong. But you get to understand that if you're going to do this, it can't be done in a flash. You have to know which authority to deal with it. You have to put up tests and order samples, and you have to deal with all this bureaucratic, so to speak, in order to get a legally secure system in place as well. Then there must also be a synchronisation of the requirements applicable to citizenship. Here we are very clear in the bill that the government is working on the two things. Our focus is precisely on the fact that social studies and Swedish requirements should also be in place for this. It is clear, and I can assure you that we are working on it. Madam President, I would like A year ago, many believed that it would not be possible at all to produce new legislation on migration. But we did, and I would particularly like to thank some of those who have actually made it possible that the situation now seems to be such that we can manage to bring this to a successful conclusion. I would, of course, like to mention those who worked in the Migration Committee constructively, perhaps in particular the Center Party, which I think has been very constructive throughout the whole process of investigation and also in talks as to how the legislative proposals would land, to where we are today. However, I would also like to thank the committee secretariat on our part in particular. We know you've been working under severe pressure. I think you have solved this task in such a way that we will be able to have legislation in place from 20 July, and you should have a warm thank you for that. With this bill, as I said, we will have long-term sustainable migration legislation in place, at last. Finally, I would just like to say something about the tone that has been in part of this debate. Sweden is today a country characterised by diversity. 20% of our population was born in another country. In total, there are over 2 million people. More than 1 million of the labour force was born in another country. 34 percent of doctors were born in another country. 43 per cent of carers were born in another country. 28 per cent of the nurses were born in another country. They have had central roles in the pandemic. Immigrants are generally over-represented in health professions. How could we have coped with the difficult situations we have had, not least in terms of health care and care, if we had not had so many people with their roots in another country who had helped with this? So do they in everyday life. We have many people in Sweden who were born in another country. They're in medical care. They're in the industry. They're in the trade. They're in school. They are on the football field – we see that not least during these days. There we also see how important it is to play as a team and not point fingers at each other and make a difference between people and people depending on where people come from. One must actually strive to work together in the community of the Swedish people – all of us who live here, 10 million. Once again, when I hear some of the right-wing parties put all the blame for any problems that may exist in Sweden on the immigrants – you incite them, black them out and black out Sweden – I find it deeply destructive. That rhetoric only leads to misery, and we have seen it so many times in history. I and the party that I have belonged to for almost 35 years, the Social Democratic Party, will never fall into that kind of destructive rhetoric, on the contrary. I can assure you that we will stand by the position we have taken on these fundamental issues. I believe that Sweden is becoming weaker by hate, black painting and fragmentation, while it becomes stronger by community, cohesion and solidarity. When we get a new migration legislation in place, it is, after all, a success for Sweden. It is a long-term and sustainable new migration policy.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-640	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats and the Center Party have great differences in migration policy, but there is also much that unites us. I would like to thank the Swedish Social Democracy for not having chosen to go the same way as your fellow party members in Denmark, for example. I think it is very important for the Social Democrats to stand up for us to help people escape but also for us to have order in migration policy. We will hopefully, during today's vote, have an announcement of a broad investigation into a more effective and coherent return. For the Center Party, it is important that people who have been rejected should return. The government has no such strong proposals in the bill. I wonder: what is the Social Democrats' proposal for an even better and sharper return? I'm sure Morgan himself wants it.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-644	Madam President, I would like Let me once again acknowledge the cooperation we have had both in the Committee and in the process that has led to the legislative proposal that we now have on the table. With regard to return, there may not be any initiatives in this report, but we are working very ambitiously on these issues, but in other processes. It's a matter of course, I think. If the legitimacy of Swedish migration policy is to be maintained, responsibility must be taken both for those who can stay, so that they get a good welcome and a good start in the new country, and for those who cannot stay, so that they return to the countries from which they come. A common year leaves around 12 000 people in Sweden; it is a question of former asylum seekers. Then I count both those who leave by force and those who do so voluntarily. I count both those who go directly to their home countries and those who go to another EU country, i.e. the so-called Dublin cases that I was talking about. There are 12 000 cases n, i.e. 1 000 people a month leaving Sweden. Many people believe that the return does not work at all and that no one leaves Sweden. It's actually a fake picture. My numbers are from a regular year. It is clear that the return was more difficult last year, during the pandemic. But even during the pandemic year there were 7,800 people who left Sweden, despite the fact that many air routes were closed, despite the fact that some embassies here in Stockholm were closed and that it was much more difficult than before. We will continue to work on this. I see in front of me that, not least, European work will mean that it will be more effective. This is one of the issues that Ylva Johansson, as European Commissioner, gives the most priority to. We have good cooperation with the European Commission here to ensure that this is made more effective.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-650	Madam President, I would like The annual return of 12 000 is, of course, a good thing. But I believe that both the Center Party and the Social Democrats would like the figure to be higher. Voluntary return is a very important element, and it is of course best when people can return voluntarily. I think we can do more to get more people to do just that. However, unlike the Left Party, I believe that in the short and long term we need detention places. I also believe that in the long term we will need more detention places. I know they've expanded over the last few years, but I don't think that's enough.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-654	Madam President, I would like 12 000 is quite many, since 2014. So we are talking about almost 90 000 in total who have left Sweden. But a common year is 12,000 — about 1,000 a month. That is about the figure for a regular year. In order to make this work, it is often necessary to work directly towards the countries in question. It can sometimes be difficult to get them on the track and cooperate. When I joined, 2014, for example, there was no working cooperation with Morocco. That is why we – you will remember – had a big discussion here about not least Moroccan young men who hung around the central station in Stockholm or in Nordstan in Gothenburg and caused a lot of problems, not least a lot of crimes. It was difficult to reject them, because Morocco simply did not accept them. One of the first things I did as a minister when I took office was to start cooperation with Morocco in such a way that we now have a much more effective system. You see that, too, in terms of results. Now we can get those Moroccans who do not have the right to be in Sweden to return to Morocco. It is the same for Afghanistan. When I took office, there was no return agreement with Afghanistan. We negotiated that. We now have a working agreement of this kind and have therefore been able to carry out returns there as well. I have only recently met representatives of several other countries, including Iraq and Lebanon, to improve return to those countries as well. Last of all, there are detention centres. Yes, we've doubled the number of detention sites. I think we're going to need more detention places. It will be a budget issue in the autumn, and I see that we will be able to devote increased resources to this too.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-660	Madam President, I would like In May 2018, Stefan Löfven presented the migration policy on which the Social Democrats went to elections. They were very clear. The then tight policy would remain firm until the EU had a new migration policy in place. Now the EU does not have a new migration policy in place, but today Sweden is likely to have a new immigration policy, signed by the Social Democrats. Since the Social Democrats promised the election of a tight policy, each time they have sat down in this House and voted on migration policy, they have pushed the button for increased immigration. It is a great betrayal of all those voters who thought they were voting in favour of a tight immigration policy. But above all, it is a great betrayal of all those who are stuck in the red - green alienation. Perhaps the clearest concrete example of the Social Democrats' total shift in immigration policy is the so-called humanitarian basis of protection, which has always been a valve for painful cases. It has been different in width over the years, but it has still been a valve. Now that valve is turned into a wide-open door for adults without protection reasons, in practice also an amnesty for those who do not meet the requirements of the Upper Secondary Education Act. The Finnish Immigration Service itself says that this is no longer an exception. It's deeply irresponsible. It continues to pump out a signal in the world that it is to Sweden to come, because here there is always a tear in the patchwork of legislation. I wonder, of course, what happened to the Social Democrats' election promise of a very tight policy? What does Morgan Johansson have to say to all those voters who thought they were voting for a reduction in immigration, but instead increased immigration?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-665	Madam President, I would like Yeah, what really happened? Yeah, but this is what we're doing now. The legislation that is now being enforced is about the same level as the temporary law, and that is in itself the strictest legislation in 40 years. In my opinion, it will bear the brunt of the fact that we do not end up in the same situation that we ended up in when the Moderates ruled Sweden – if we are to look back. Maria Malmer Stenergard began by looking back. I'd love to. I took care of the situation in 2014 and 2015. It was I who tightened up the legislation and introduced the ID checks, the border controls and the temporary law, which are now expiring. The strange thing was that it was the Moderates who had pushed this legislation forward. Then the Moderates lost the election, and then they turned 180 degrees. They got in a position and started barking at me for not tearing up the legislation fast enough, which I then came to do. That's history. Now we are in a situation where we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. My assessment is that it will remain at about the levels that we have right now. I can only say that Maria Stenergard has said this before. Every time we have done something – when we removed the ID checks, when we reintroduced family reunification for the alternative beneficiaries and when the High School Act came – Maria Malmer Stenergard has stood and said: Now the number of asylum seekers will increase sharply. Just wait! Every time she gets it wrong, and so will she in this situation. We have the legislation that we are now drafting. It is on a par with the rest of the EU. This means that we are much less likely to end up in the same situation as we ended up in 2015. And we are keeping what we have said to the voters.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-671	Madam President, I would like I don't know how many times I've been listening to this scratchy record of falsification of history. When we changed our policy in spring 2015 and said that we did not think it should be granted permanent residence permits without temporary residence permits as a general rule, Morgan Johansson said that we were no longer people. I find it strange that every time I say this, when I quote it directly, the Minister seems to be asking questions. But that's what it sounded like. And the first thing Stefan Löfven did in his government declaration was to adopt the migration policy previously conducted. Yes, we have a huge responsibility on the part of the Moderates because we have come here. But so do the Social Democrats, and they refuse to admit it. They also refuse to admit that the policy they have now taken to Parliament is incredibly far from the temporary law on which Morgan Johansson and his party went to elections. There's an increase in family immigration. It's a whole new base of protection. There are greater exceptions to all kinds of requirements. No, there was no government crisis last summer, as Morgan Johansson rightly pointed out in his introduction. It was because the Social Democrats chose power over Sweden. They completely changed their policy and bought the Green Party's direct off. Nothing is ever the fault of the Social Democrats. It's always someone else's fault, in this case the Moderates. But at least you can see a small trace of honesty. Throughout this process, the working name of this policy has been E n long-term sustainable migration policy. But when the bill finally came to Parliament it was called Changed Rules in the Aliens Act. I think that's a better description. And if we have a new government – sooner rather than later, I hope – we will ensure that we develop the long-term sustainability of reducing immigration.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-676	Madam President, I would like The truth is that the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply during my time since I took office. We received more than 80 000 in 2014. In 2015 there were 163,000. Today, the number of asylum seekers has fallen by over 90%, and that is a consequence of the measures we did: the identification checks, border controls and the temporary law. If Maria Malmer Stenergard wants to immerse herself more in history, perhaps she should go to some of her representatives or other moderate politicians. For example, she can call and talk to Fredrik Reinfeldt – if they are in contact, but they may not. If so, he can explain how the Moderates ran politics throughout the alliance. Otherwise, she can always talk to Tobias Billström, who is my predecessor and who is now the group leader of the Moderates in the Riksdag. He was the one who pushed the most generous legislation across the EU during his time—it was just that. I was the one who had to tighten it up when the effects became as they were. Now we simply have a situation where we have tightened up the legislation. We came up with this new law. It is not at all true that it is incredibly far from the temporary law. On the contrary, it is very close to the temporary law. Nor is it at all true that, as Maria Stenergard said, we bought the Green Party's policy straight off. We come from a situation in which we have had different views on, for example, the fundamental issue of temporary residence permits and the length of temporary residence permits in that case. It is enough to look at what the product itself looks like with the temporary residence permits and with the requirements for permanent residence permits. It is understandable that it has clearly been a negotiation, but it is not the case that we have in any way changed the fundamentals of what the Committee came up with. This means that we get a long-term perspective and that we prevent so that we do not end up in the same position as 2015.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-682	Madam President, I would like When the Minister of Migration received the final report of the Migration Committee, he was asked whether new negotiations on the proposals would take place after the referral was received. According to the Swedish Radio website, the Minister for Migration replied that the parties had already negotiated. We are now standing here today, and we can see that what appeared at Parliament's table is a bill that has been negotiated further on the basis of the final report that existed and thus deviates from the proposal that would be negotiated. In addition, there are proposals that allow us to legitimately assume that they will lead to an increase in immigration. I'm thinking about the humanitarian valve. Here is a proposal which the Social Democrats have supported. It is probably not the Social Democracy's own idea, but a 'no' should no longer be a 'no', but it can be a 'yes', even if the person has no reason for asylum and has an expulsion decision. The Minister for Migration has spoken warmly for integration. Then there is the issue that has been raised in today's debate. If the Minister for Migration has time, I would like him to comment on why the language and social orientation requirement is not included. You're still pushing it to the future. Will the humanitarian valve, Morgan Johansson, which you have now formulated with the Green Party, lead to a higher search pressure to Sweden, unchanged or lower?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-687	Madam President, I would like No, it won't. There we also have support in the Finnish Immigration Service's formulations in its referral. Will this mean some kind of pull effect to Sweden? There's the Migration Board's assessment that that's not the case. This is because the humanitarian valve cannot be used unless there is a yes at the bottom. It can be used when you have received a residence permit to extend your residence permit, but it cannot be used if you do not have a residence permit or if you have received a no. Then the valve cannot be used. I'm saying it's really a humanitarian valve. Why has it not existed before in Sweden? Because temporary residence permits have not existed in the past in the way that is now being introduced. This is to switch to the new system, but to avoid unreasonable effects. I have given some examples, and other debaters have done so earlier in the debate, about what this would be about. For example, you have come to Sweden and have received a residence permit here, been here eight ten years, gone around on temporary residence permits, and suddenly there is peace in your home country. You can be well established here with work and family but still only have temporary residence permits. So suddenly the temporary residence permit expires. Is it reasonable that you should be thrown out of Sweden, even though in practice you are established here? No. Then we say that if there are particularly distressing circumstances, and there is a special connection, then you should not be granted a permanent residence permit without an extension of the temporary residence permit. In order to receive a permanent residence permit, you should also be able to meet the requirements that we are now setting up. I have just explained how we work with language and social literacy requirements. You do not do it in a hurry, but you have to ensure that there is an authority that can manage them, that money is set aside, that there is a system of social studies and language tests developed. But I can assure Hans Eklind that it's not something we're slipping on, but we will.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-691	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Migration. However, I would like to say to those who listen to the debate that I, too, am reading what the Migration Agency is writing. Their forecast is that migration through the bill will mean that more people will go to Sweden. It's the Finnish Immigration Service's own prognosis. I won't interfere, but I need to take this opportunity. I have listened so much to the Minister for Migration, who is trying to present a story that is that it was we who were responsible for the generous migration policy, that it was our policy that led to the migration crisis and that he is remedying it. The truth is that in 2014, the then Christian Democratic party leader Göran Hägglund proposed that time-limited residence permits should be the main rule. In the spring of 2015, the Moderates proposed the same thing. I sat just now and quickly googled and noted that Morgan Johansson, who was then responsible Minister, used the term inhumane to describe this. Today, the Minister for Migration is saying that this is one of the more important proposals in the Committee's final report, that is to say, that a fixed-term residence permit should be the main rule. History revisionism bothers me, and I don't really understand why. One person who is very interested in migration is economist Joakim Ruist. He makes it crystal clear that Stefan Lövven's signal that Sweden does not build walls and that we will take care of all the refugees who come here, contrary to what most other EU countries did, led to so many choosing Sweden. Joakim Ruist works knowledgeably and seriously to try to explain phenomena in our present time.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-696	Madam President, I would like We can immerse ourselves in history. Göran Hägglund said this after he had resigned, after the KD had lost the election. That's it. While he was in the government as Minister of Social Affairs, he didn't say a nut job. It's the same with the Moderates. It was not that the Moderates turned about politics in any way while Fredrik Reinfeldt was Prime Minister. On the contrary! New legislation was drawn up, and press conferences were cheering about the fact that the generous rules had now been implemented. In fact, we on our part were also critical. There was a choice for the Reinfeldt government to settle with us instead. It might have looked a little different if I were to speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. But Göran Hägglund only reacted after he had resigned, not during the reign. It is clear that I can be accused, or the Red-Green Government, that we should have acted earlier and demolished the moderate laws. Of course we could have done that, you might say afterwards. But we were still in a situation when 2015 was ahead of us. It was hard to know how many were coming in 2015. But when there were so many – it finally became 163,000 – I realized that this was completely impossible to handle. Then we had to turn politics. Even then, there was not a consensus among the bourgeois parties for austerity. I came forward with suggestions for ID checks. But then there were bourgeois parties who were unable to vote in favour, but even abstained. This was a long time ago, and we are a long time ago out of that situation. What we are talking about now is the legislation that will apply from now on and that is at such a level that we do not run the risk of ending up in exactly the same situation as in 2015. I do not want to be involved in settling such a situation again. I've done that once, and that's enough.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-700	Madam President, I would like I agree with Morgan Johansson that Sweden will become a stronger society of cohesion and solidarity. We promise and assure you that never, under any circumstances, work on worse terms or at lower wages than what we have now promised each other. We promise each other this in the deep understanding that if we all keep this promise, the employer must meet our requirements. That is the trade union promise. It is a promise that will ensure that colleagues are not put against each other in the workplace. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats' migration policy effectively breaks the conditions for newly arrived employees, either with work permits or temporary permits, to keep that promise. Madam President, I would like How can you demand the salary you have been promised or the working time on paper, if you know that the employer also has the power over your future or your opportunity to meet your children? How can you demand a safe working environment, protective equipment and safe procedures if you know that the future is at stake? My simple question to the Government is: Why are the Social Democrats now creating the same imbalance of power in asylum legislation that they have been opposed to in labour migration?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-706	Madam President, I would like I'm well aware of that trade union promise. After all, it was we in the labour movement who formulated it once, even if it is a long way back. It is perhaps even more topical now than it has been in a long time. There is also something else in the tradition of ideas that I stand for, namely that there must be a balance between rights and obligations. We uphold the right of asylum and have the opportunity to be protected when you need it. But if you are going to live for longer in Sweden and get a permanent residence permit, you have to live up to certain requirements. One should have basic knowledge of Swedish and how Swedish society works, one should not have committed any serious crimes and one should be able to support oneself. This does not remove the balance of the labour market, but we must maintain it with the usual laws and trade union measures at our disposal in order to avoid and combat exploitation. We've done a lot there. We have tightened up the legislation on human exploitation, we have increased the efforts on workplace inspections so that the police and other law enforcement authorities can do them to a much greater extent than before, and we have tightened the penalties for those employers who are trying to exploit people in this way. However, if you just go straight to saying that there is a risk of exploitation and that there should therefore be no requirement at all to obtain a permanent residence permit, I think there is a risk that integration will deteriorate, because there is always a need for a balance between rights and obligations. People can't have just one, but they must have the other. This must be clear on the part of society.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-710	Madam President, I would like We receive extensive reports both from trade unions and from people working with labour exploitation that this is an increasing problem and that the union has no means to maintain the balance of power, precisely because it is of course more important for people to meet their children than to get help from trade unions. This is a very serious imbalance in power. What I hear the Minister say when he starts talking about duty and rights is that you do not see new arrivals as an equal part of the employee collective and that that group should accept to do its duty in the labour market but not have access to the right and the opportunity to have equal conditions with everyone else. We know, Madam President, that this has consequences, only for those who are exposed as wage earners, but for the colleague next door and for the labour market as a whole. Therefore, I thought it appropriate to quote the trade union promise.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-712	Madam President, I would like I realize there may be a conflict of interests. Then we must ensure that we work with other types of instruments in the labour market in order to make the kind of exploitation that employers are engaged in much more difficult. We're going to tighten the rules on labour immigration. We are working on a proposal on this and are awaiting another report this autumn which tightens these rules. It's important. If we were to take the Left Party's path here and open up the legislation and liberalise it as we wish, and we would thus risk having many more asylum seekers coming to Sweden, which, moreover, we cannot reject because we no longer have those opportunities, we would have a very large group of people who live outside society and who will indeed be exploited completely by the employers involved in this. I think that would lead to much bigger problems. I think it is reasonable that if you are going to live in Sweden for a longer period of time and be here permanently, you should also show that you have attended the courses needed to enter the labour market, that you have established yourself here and that, as I said, you know how Swedish society works and have basic knowledge of Swedish. This strikes me as a good balance between rights and obligations.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-716	Madam President, I would like If a person is in need of protection, he or she receives asylum. If a person has a job, he or she receives a work permit. Then there are a number of other opportunities to stay in Sweden as a tourist, student, family and so on, but the foundation of the system is such that if you have protection needs you get asylum and if you have a job you get a work permit. The question is: if you do not have any of this, if you do not have sufficient protection requirements under our legislation and if you do not work either, is it reasonable that Sweden should fund your livelihood in any case, perhaps for a long time to come? The question to Morgan Johansson and the government is: Is it reasonable to make a commitment for 10 million people in Sweden to finance the livelihood of large groups of people – adults and healthy people – who do not have sufficient protection needs and who do not work? This issue is now being raised with the new basis of protection proposed by the government, the so-called humanitarian base of protection, which means precisely that. It covers persons who do not have asylum. If these people were in need of protection, they would have been granted asylum. And it includes people who often do not work, because then they would have had a work permit, unless this has expired. We in the Liberals want a humanitarian valve, but it should be rather tight. It should be a matter of particularly distressing circumstances, but the government now wants a very wide valve. This is partly a moral question as to what commitment Sweden's inhabitants can be made to fund the livelihood of large groups of people, although they have neither protection nor work.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-721	Madam President, I would like I wondered for a while where the line would end up, but it was the humanitarian valve anyway. Here the critics really make a chicken out of a feather. It is an exception to try to ensure that we do not end up in unreasonable situations. It is therefore not intended that the legislation should apply to people who have not had any asylum grounds. One must be here on a legal basis and, for example, have had asylum and then be able to show a special connection with Sweden and also particularly distressing circumstances. It is therefore two stages that must be reached. To say that it is a major exception that will involve major commitments is not correct, in my view. But the exception must be made, because otherwise we risk an unreasonable situation for people who have perhaps been here for eight ten years and who have had asylum because there has been war in their home country. If there is suddenly peace there and they have not yet received their permanent residence permit because they may not meet any of the requirements, there should exceptionally be an opportunity to have a temporary residence permit extended, not a new permanent residence permit. This will not be at all the extent that some believe, but, as I said, is an exception in order to avoid unreasonable situations.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-725	Madam President, I would like The government makes it a little too easy. If he had kept to the proposal put forward by the Migration Committee to return to what was called particularly distressing circumstances and which applied in Sweden from 2005 to 2014, it would have been an exception. What the government is doing here is taking the children's perspective that was introduced in 2014 and that was justified by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and that is how it should apply to large groups of adults. In practice, this has created a new basis for staying in Sweden for people who should otherwise have had to stop through the usual path – that they apply for asylum and get consent – or for people who could have worked their way into Sweden through a work permit. The new legislation will provide a broad path. If you agree to your asylum application, you will receive a temporary residence permit. Once you have established yourself, got a job and learned basic Swedish, you must get a permanent residence permit. Who, then, should be included in the new protection basis? Well, it is the people who are unable to establish themselves in Sweden the usual way, i.e. people that there is really no basis for granting a residence permit. Then the question comes back, and I think, Madam President, that this is also a moral question: how much commitment can we impose on 10 million people in Sweden, perhaps for a long time to finance the livelihood of large groups of healthy adults who cannot be granted a residence permit on a protective basis or who cannot be granted a work permit? In the end, it will be the taxpayers who will have to bear this bill when we should instead focus on those who need protection.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-730	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm tries to inflate this small valve rule, which is designed to avoid unreasonable situations, to totally unreasonable proportions. That's not what we're talking about. Firstly, it must be done on a legal basis, for example by obtaining asylum. Secondly, one must be able to show that one has a special connection with Sweden. Thirdly, it must also be possible to show particularly distressing circumstances. All this says that this is an exception and nothing else. Then why are we in front of it? The Migration Committee worked well during the time it had at its disposal. However, the Migration Committee did not solve the question of so-called 'foreign parentheses', i.e. how long you can go on temporary residence permits before they are to end. Therefore, there is a risk that individuals may end up in this situation. It may be that you have not received a permanent residence permit. The courses in Swedish may not have been completed. But you can be established here anyway. You can work, pay taxes and have children here and be established here for eight ten years, maybe even longer. So suddenly the need for protection ceases. Then the moral question is, if Fredrik Malm wants to talk to me about it, if we are going to throw out a person who actually has this connection to Sweden back to his home country? No, we say. If there are also particularly distressing circumstances, an extended temporary residence permit should be granted, not permanently. So this is not at all, in my view, in the order of magnitude that Fredrik Malm wants to make it sound like.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-735	Madam President, I would like Now we do not know whether this is perhaps Morgan Johansson's last appearance as Minister of Migration. With all due respect, I hope so. It is the Minister of Migration who is the Swedish champion of mass immigration to Sweden through the ages, the Minister who cannot distinguish between basic concepts such as immigrants and immigration policy. Today we are seeing the result of record unemployment among foreign-born people, record low income among immigrants, increased insecurity, increased exclusion, fragmentation, etcetera. The government said earlier that he was proud of this. Is he really proud of what his party has achieved in government for this many years and of what the Social Democrats have actually become? In our work on our policy, we have gone through a lot of social democratic history in migration policy – proposals, preparatory work etc. from the 40s, 50s, 60s and 70s. There is actually a lot that makes sense and good. You should be able to learn from history and take advantage of good ideas that have actually worked. Then, unfortunately, the Social Democracy derailed in the 1970s, when some form of international solidarity replaced national solidarity and peoples' homes. We have all seen the pictures of Palme and Fidel Castro when they smoked cigars and Ingvar Carlsson and Robert Mugabe hand in hand. Somewhere it obviously went wrong, and then migration policy followed. If the Social Democrats as their Danish sister party could return to a migration policy that is humane but not harmful to Sweden, we could certainly find some consensus. My question is therefore: what does the Minister think of the Danish Social Democrats' proposal for increased repatriation and asylum centres abroad? Is it a reasonable way to go, or does he want to continue to rely on outer border parties such as the Center Party and the Green Party?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-742	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think that's a reasonable way to go. This is also an unrealistic way forward, in my view. For Denmark, the situation is different. They are not bound in the same way as we are by EU law. For the Swedish part, where we are bound by EU law, this is a path that we simply cannot go, at least not if we are going to continue to be in the European Union and do not have these exceptions. But I would also like to say that the very idea is to come from Syria and seek asylum in a country here. Then you should be sent to a camp in Africa. Then the very idea is that any country in Africa should receive the one who has arrived there. Asylum must then be granted in this country. It's an idea, but I'd say it's unrealistic. However, this discussion may continue in Denmark in that case. What I am more interested in hearing about the Swedish Democrats is what their policy now looks like. Jonas Andersson had a rather elegant post earlier. He told me that the party is now over for the refugees. Is that how the Swedish Democrats look at refugees, that refugeehood is some kind of party when people come here to seek protection and security and be able to get a new start? Then you understand the values behind the Swedish Democrats' policy. Then Jonas Andersson also said that the Swedish democrats want minus immigration. He has previously been on the ball about being able to send out people who may have been here for a very long time. My question to Jonas Andersson is: If Jonas Andersson has any influence in a possible future government – what it will now look like – will he work for mass deportations of people who have been here for a very long time? Is this what we see before us, a policy of discarding and a mass deportation of people?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-748	Madam President, I would like It's always fun to listen to Minister Johansson. After all, the rhetoric he uses is one that is usually heard of totalitarian states, and some banana republics, using the opposition. I don't think it's worth responding to that. As regards the unrealistic nature of Danish politics, I wonder whether the Government has talked to its colleague in Denmark, Mattias Tesfaye, about how unrealistic this is. I know that you are not bound by the same conventions, but at the same time you can have a will orientation – that you can want to change policies even within the EU. It is not that the conventions and EU laws that exist are written in stone, given by God or by natural laws, but everything can be changed. After all, Denmark has significantly better conditions than Sweden in terms of exclusion and unemployment among foreign born and everything else that is highly problematic in Sweden. But it is clear – Denmark has not had to live with the policy of the Swedish Social Democrats for many years either. In an interview with Mattias Tesfaye in Aktuellt it appeared quite natural that the Danes start from the situation in Denmark, from the Danish conditions and from the Danish people's best when they shape their migration policy. Therefore, I wonder: Is it too much to ask that a Swedish government should start from the situation in Sweden and from the Swedish conditions – and is the Swedish people's welfare at the centre?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-752	Madam President, I would like After all, we have just stated that this is not in line with EU law. Since Sweden is bound by EU law, there is not even the opportunity for us to go that way. It's number one. Then the question is whether this is in line with the Geneva Convention at all. That is also a question you can ask. Let me just remind you of when this acquis once came into being, namely just after the Second World War. At the time, there was no proper regulation for people who fled from war and conflict. After the terrible disaster of World War II, world leaders decided to say: If it is the case that people need protection and help from wars and conflicts, countries should be obliged to provide that protection and help. I stand by it, and I will always stand by it. The problem with the Swedish Democrats is that you have never stood for this, Jonas Andersson – quite the contrary. It doesn't matter how many asylum seekers have come to Sweden; once someone has come from another country, the Swedish Democrats have always been against it. It is based on the human outlook you have where you constantly portray immigrants and people from other countries as a worse kind of people. You blame them for all the problems that exist in society, whether it be criminality, health care or anything else. That is the kind of rhetoric that identifies a scapegoat, which has led so many countries into so much misery. I can therefore say that I fear what it would actually mean not only for the tone but also for the politics of our country if the Swedish Democrats were to have influence over a future government. I asked Jonas Andersson if the Swedish Democrats will work for a mass deportation of people who have been here for many years. The people who now work as health workers and nurses, or as industrial workers and doctors – do they have reason to fear that their residence permit would suddenly be revoked if the Swedish democrats gained power? We did not get that answer from Jonas Andersson today, Madam President.
i-2CGT2SDw5AMmzsMARJ1icK	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on 29 Testing in the enforcement of expulsion decisions. I shall begin by calling for the approval of the Social Democrats with a number of reserves. The basic provisions on the right of foreigners to reside in Sweden and on expulsion if they are not allowed to reside in Sweden for various reasons are contained in the Aliens Act, which has just been debated here in the Chamber almost all day. The Aliens Act contains provisions on certain control and coercion measures that may be taken against foreigners, such as the handling of passports and travel documents, photography, fingerprinting and the care of the foreigner in order to enforce a expulsion decision. In order to execute a expulsion order, the Police Authority and the Security Service may also take care of a foreigner if it is necessary for the preparation or execution of the execution. Madam President, I would like The Act on Disease Control states that society's disease protection must meet the population's needs for protection against the spread of infectious diseases. The administrative court may decide, on application by the infectious pathologist, to carry out a compulsory investigation if a person who may reasonably be suspected of carrying a common-law disease objects to the examination necessary to establish whether there is an infectious event. Decisions on such an investigation may be made only if there is a real risk of other people being infected. The examination shall not involve any intervention which may cause other than minor harm. The physician who carried out the examination must immediately inform the disease control doctor of its outcome. From 1 July 2020 covid-19 is also listed as a general hazard in Annex 1 to the Disease Control Act. In the area of return, the government is actively working on it, including through an intensified dialogue with the beneficiary countries. Earlier today, we were also able to hear Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson mention this. He also identified several countries with which he had recently been in contact, including Afghanistan. Dialogue is also conducted on alternatives to covid-19 testing before departure. Return is thus continuing, but as with other EU countries, with the constraints inherent in an ongoing pandemic. Despite these, there is therefore both a self-imposed return and also expulsion and expulsion. Normal years amount to about 12 000 per year, but even by 2020 it was actually over 7 000 who returned. We therefore believe that no announcement is needed, depending on the ongoing government dialogue with the beneficiary countries, which I mentioned. Furthermore, it cannot be considered justified to legislate in the case of forced testing in these situations during the limited time that a need may actually exist. We hope, of course, that it will be as short as possible, that the pandemic will actually recede so that we have a better situation in the near future. The proposal is designed as a coercive action against a particular group and gives the police far-reaching powers. It is questionable whether the proposal can be considered compatible with constitutionally protected rights and freedoms and the principle of proportionality. We would have liked this to have been prepared by the Constitutional and Social Committee. We did not think that we had that knowledge ourselves and would have liked to have obtained an opinion from them before this became a report, in order also to highlight the issues that other committees own. The police are already in a position to act when a foreigner hinders or complicates the police's enforcement work. Foreigners to be expelled or expelled can be detained for a relatively long time, and convicted foreigners to be expelled can be detained for an unlimited period of time. It has sounded in several debates that it would not be possible, but it is. The rule of law looks like that: If it's about convicted, it's unlimited time in custody.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-776	Madam President, I would like Compliance with decisions is a prerequisite for regulated immigration. If you have received a yes to your asylum application, you should also be given a real chance to enter society and build a new life here. You're supposed to get a real yes. But if you've been turned down, you should go back. A no should be a no for real. When this is not the case, when it does not work, regulated immigration is undermined. Immigration is increasing and, in the long run, we actually have reduced opportunities to help those with the greatest need. Only half of those who are to return do so voluntarily, even though it is their duty. Instead of following a final decision, a large number of people each year choose to depart and go underground. The number of people living without a permit in Sweden has been estimated by an investigation a few years ago to be up to 50 000. Border police believe in double. No one knows. The government repeatedly says that it prioritises return but consistently refuses to give the authorities the tools they need: more detention places, longer limitation periods and increased search opportunities, to name a few. And so now, in the midst of the pandemic, as many as nine out of ten who should have already left the country in the system of refusing to allow themselves to be tested for covid-19, while airlines and receiving countries are demanding a negative test. In practice, they can decide for themselves whether to expel them or not. It is about those who have been denied asylum, but it is also about those who are to be expelled because of crime. It really pisses me off that it has gone so far that people who have been convicted of serious sexual crimes have been released because they could not be expelled because of this. Madam President, I would like As early as December, I drew Morgan Johansson's attention to this problem through a written question. At the beginning of February, I had a debate with him on the possibility of amending the law so that forced testing can be carried out. Then he said he would solve the issue by diplomacy. But the problems just got worse, and nothing happened. In fact, it was only when Expressen wrote about a case involving two men from Afghanistan who were convicted of rape of a 14-year-old, but who could not be expelled, that Morgan Johansson contacted the Afghan ambassador at the end of May. I am well aware that forced testing brings about a balance in terms of personal integrity, and such issues need to be handled very carefully. At the same time, it is not possible to ignore the suffering of victims or the risk of new crimes being committed by victims of crime if they are released. Nor can it be ignored that more people without permission to be in Sweden contribute to a growing shadow society where people suffer. It also tempts the wounded belief in the Swedish migration system when by refusing to take a test that millions of other people voluntarily take can prevent their own expulsion. It is about a flagrant way to abuse the situation and to override decisions announced by Swedish authorities. Those who rape should get a one-way ticket home, and it should not be rebookable. Other countries are usually more fast-footed than Sweden. Forced testing is already being carried out in Germany and Denmark by those who are to be expelled. Denmark did not have the legal option in the past either, but, unlike this government, it acted immediately when the problem came to light. Now they have this spring's opportunity in place. Obsessive testing is also no stranger to Sweden. Today, the Act on Disease Control already provides for the possibility to investigate a person under certain conditions, but this requires concrete suspicion of infection. Thus, the legislator has already struck the balance that there are situations where personal integrity actually has to stand back in order to investigate whether a person is carrying a dangerous disease. Now we need to extend the application so that forced testing can be brought up to date even in situations where they are required for expulsion. I am very pleased that a clear majority in the Social Security Committee has supported the Moderates' proposal for a legislative amendment. Now the government must urgently come back with proposals on how forced testing can be made possible when it is necessary to ensure a deportation or deportation. In addition, the committee calls on the government to review whether there is a need for other changes to ensure that the police are in a position to act when those who are to be expelled hinder and make it more difficult for the police. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party are opposed to the proposal for forced testing of those who are to be expelled. I honestly find that very hard to understand. I think a lot of people have. How can you look the rape victims in the eyes and say that you would rather let the perpetrators out than force them to take a simple test? The answer is that you may not really be able to. When, last week, the P1 wanted a debate on this issue, no one from the Social Democrats, the Green Party or the Left Party, were the ones who said no to this proposal, who wanted to stand up for debate. I think it's pretty low. You may feel differently, but I think you should take the debate. Finally, I would just like to comment on what Carina Ohlsson said here earlier that the Social Democrats wanted us to refer this proposal to the KU and the Social Affairs Committee before it went to the government. It was obviously just an attempt to delay this legislation, because it was then known that it would not have time to get this request to the government before the summer. It goes without saying that the kind of balance that applies to things that run counter to the Constitution must be made in the preparation that the government is now given the task of doing. I support the proposal in the report.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-790	Madam President, I would like This is an example of a debate that I am absolutely convinced that the public find very strange and difficult to understand. It is therefore a question of forcing people with expulsion decisions to test themselves for covid. Some countries refuse to accept their own citizens if such a test has not been carried out. So we have had an absurd situation in which people with expulsion decisions have been able to refuse to comply with government decisions by saying no to a simple covidtest. The fact that we have not already implemented this simple decision is alleged to be due to the gross privacy restriction that it means being topped in the nose. Here are some other examples of similar situations that everyone usually accepts because the profit for the general is greater than the possible violation. It doesn't matter if a motorist wants to blow the alcometer or not if he's stopped by the police. If he gets stopped, he's gonna blow. The alternative will be to follow for blood tests. It doesn't matter if a teenager wants to sit around playing computer games all night instead of signing up. If the Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal has made a decision and has called the youth to the Board of Appeal and military service, he shall report. Otherwise, he'll be picked up by the police. It doesn't matter if someone who returns from vacation just wants to slide through border control. If there is reason to search him or search his luggage in detail, it will be done by force. Swedish legislation contains, and has always contained, numerous cases where the government has been able to intervene against an individual under coercion. Of course, this should never happen unnecessarily. But if it's necessary, it's necessary. Anything else would be completely and completely unreasonable, so also when it comes to a foreigner who is to be removed from our country but refuses to take the totally harmless covidtest required to be admitted to the home country. Of course, this way of deliberately delaying and sabotaging an expulsion should not be possible. Let's not make this any more complicated than it is. If a covid test is required to execute an expulsion, then one covid test should be taken as a matter of urgency. There is nothing disproportionate about that procedure. The fact that we even have this discussion seems absurd. This is about common, healthy farming sense. I support the committee's proposal, Madam President. I would also like to make a contribution to any government that is now in place in the coming weeks: act – preferably yesterday!
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-799	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Today we have had a very long debate on Swedish migration policy, and it cannot have escaped anyone who has listened to it that the Center Party is a party that thinks that Sweden should have a migration policy that stands up for humanity and humanism. But we also think that order is important, and we think that the person who has been rejected should leave the country. What we are debating now is not really a decision that I think Parliament should have to take. I think that this is something that the government should have been able to go forward on its own and long ago. Of course, it is very important that the Constitution is respected and that this is looked at properly. We also expect the government to do so. I therefore do not think that there is anything strange about the decision that we are proposing to Parliament today. It is not reasonable that those who are illegally staying in the country can say that there is no N, I do not want to take a covidtest and therefore stay. Furthermore, we know that we are short on detention places and that we have a return with major shortcomings. That is why this is a proposal which I think it is reasonable for Parliament to take a step forward and for the government to take a look at it further. As I said, I therefore support the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-804	Madam President, I would like When the police's National Operations Department, Noah, states that as many as 90 percent of all serious criminals who are to be expelled after serving prison sentences do not submit to a covid test to prevent deportation, the government does nothing. Criminals, those who are here illegally, those who have been refused an application to be here and those who are considered a threat to national security shall be expelled. It shall not be possible to circumvent expulsion by refusing to submit to a covid test. So we can sum up why we Christian Democrats believe that the committee's proposal to appoint the government to urgently investigate how forced testing can be made possible is both correct and important. I therefore support the committee's proposal. My only question at night is why not all parties are behind this. Why do social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties say no to this proposal? I note that there is not a single environmental or left-wing party here to take the debate. To reject the proposal on the grounds that the pandemic is soon over is certainly not good enough. Are there Members of Parliament who seriously believe that it is absolutely impossible for us to have a fourth wave in the autumn or that this is the very last pandemic that Sweden will experience? Does anyone in here think that activists will not continue in the future to encourage and encourage people who will be expelled to stay here in Sweden by exploiting the loophole in the law that we now want to close? It is not possible to reject the proposal on the basis of the Constitution or personal integrity. In fact, according to the committee's proposal, these issues must be handled very carefully. It is therefore nothing new and absolutely nothing that any party that supports the committee's proposal takes lightly. It must be perfectly possible, as in other countries, to find a solution that will restore the effectiveness of enforcement work. It is not only certain countries of origin that require a negative test response to what is called the PCR test, but also Frontex, which is the EU Border and Coast Guard Agency that handles much of the transport, as well as transit airports, airlines, etc., require precisely such test responses in order to carry out the transport operations. During the pandemic, the number of detention centres is reduced by about 40%. Those who refuse to test themselves take up the very limited places. There is even evidence that a foreigner who would have been deported for crimes is no longer detained but is out in our society. It is beyond reason that we should not be able to carry out covid tests on people who have forfeited the right to remain in our country and who exploit a gap in the law by refusing to take covidtest. At the same time, not one of us can refuse to let the police take an alcohol test or any other kind of test while driving. However, the fact that there are politicians who do not think it reasonable to try to remedy this quickly is perhaps even worse.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-814	Madam President, I would like A great deal of wisdom has been said by a number of colleagues here. I will not extend this much in this late hour. We've been dealing with the pandemic for a year and a half. Therefore, it is no wonder that Swedish legislation does not include writings about the pandemic. Several speakers have said that there is a loophole. Yes, it does because the pandemic is something new. The legislator must somehow deal with the situation that has arisen. We cannot have a system in which up to 90 percent of those who are detained, who are to leave Sweden, who have been given a final judgment to leave our country and who have no right to reside on Swedish territory, can invoke some kind of personal integrity. The intention is not to spit a little on a piece of paper and use a tops in one nostril, in order to stay in the country. It doesn't make sense. I have a liberal basic view. I subscribe to liberal ideology in a broad sense. This means that, as a liberal in my political work, I have time and again and in different ways to weigh personal integrity to the common good in a number of different situations. Jonas Andersson in Skellefteå is not still in the hall, but he mentioned a number of examples, such as doing alco-tests. Nor do we find it very strange that the police can handcuff when arresting a suspect, even though the person is not convicted. There are plenty of examples where personal integrity must be curtailed in different ways. It is almost a kind of extreme legal principle that a person who is in the situation of leaving Sweden should be able to invoke some kind of total catalogue of rights and thus, in practice, paralyze our entire return system and detention system. It doesn't make sense. I believe that the Social Democrats also understand that this is not reasonable. The problem is that the government has not had enough action to tackle it. This is something that the Riksdag should be able to handle in a few weeks' time in a reasonable and good way. It's a flagrant abuse. It's a complete obstruction that people engage in. In order to remain in the country alone, the integrity aspect of the covid test is invoked. The Liberals also call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-821	Madam President, I would like So far, it's a little empty in the Justice Committee's benches. It was quick in the Social Security Committee's field. It was effective and very exemplary. Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support our reservation 1 in paragraph 2. I would just like to outline briefly the background to all our reservations in this report. The Government has just appointed the investigation on 29 April This year A comprehensive legislation on the powers of the Customs Agency. The main objective of this investigation is to take a holistic approach, explain what it looks like and give relevant legislative proposals on what additional powers Customs needs to be an effective authority. We are simply going to do what has been called for for for an extremely long time: ensure that we have coherent constitutional regulation, so that we do not have the patchwork of sometimes rather contradictory tasks and powers of the Customs Agency as well as the Coast Guard and other authorities for a long time. The mission shall be reported by 16 May of the election year. We do not want to anticipate the preparation that is going on. This means that we do not support the announcements that a majority in committee is in favour of. I might add that the Government has provided further guidance and guidance to the Finnish Customs in its letter of regulation in the future work. This is particularly true in this year's regulatory letter, which specifically states that the level of ambition in preventing the smuggling of drugs, arms and explosives in particular should be increased. There's a bill. It is relatively technical in nature. I am not going to go through in detail the proposals that are there. You have been able to read that in the documents. Generally speaking, from a political point of view, there is a clear need to take further measures to make it more difficult for organised crime to operate in our country. In connection with the refugee crisis in 2015, or the system success as I usually say, when the borders were closed one could notice that burglary was affected all the way up to central Sweden. It was obvious that it was internationally organized gangs that ravaged and made house invasions and arrests of and in vehicles. It was self-marking. Even in the context of this pandemic, we have seen a change in the mode of crime that can hardly be explained in any other way than that it is linked to international crime. As you know, this crime has many forms and faces. Shooting and drug trafficking are perhaps the most popular and talked about. But trafficking, working life crime, welfare crime or theft crime in the form of theft leagues and other things are other faces. This must be overcome through international cooperation, and customs is and has been involved in several major operations that have worked excellently and successfully. This has been done, among other things, with the Baltic States as co-responsible. With this, I would like to say that the report will sharpen the tools of customs. As I said, we will also review the powers of the entire customs operation in the investigation whose results will come. Regardless of which government is in place then you will have good use of the investigation's overview of what the legislation looks like, because this is tricky matter. However, we do not want to close Sweden's borders. We do not want to end up in a situation where we build walls around our country. We are perhaps the most world-dependent democratic welfare country in the world, and we have been since the days of freedom. We need free trade, transparency and transparency. Building walls and making mobility more difficult is not something that benefits our nation in the longer term. Having said that, I would like to endorse our reservation. Otherwise, we are behind what is in the bill.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-833	Madam President, I would like International theft leagues account for a very large proportion of residential burglaries and other major thefts in Sweden. Today, it is estimated that these leagues are responsible for more than half of all residential break-ins in the country. They also account for up to 90 per cent of other major thefts, such as car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery, and not least thefts from construction sites. It is a crime with a high degree of organisation where the gangs have developed a well-structured logistics and ability to handle stolen goods, accommodation and transport. Large profits, low detection risk and low penalties are a major contributory factor in the fact that the gangs of theft are ravaging Sweden. The problems are an illustration of how organised crime has become increasingly international over the years. Ligor commits crimes in one country, transports the stolen goods to another country and then disposes of it perhaps in a third. Crime takes place in both directions. At the same time as stolen goods are taken out of Sweden, drugs and weapons are smuggled into the country. These crimes of theft are gross violations of privacy that affect a large number of people in Sweden. It is also a crime that costs individuals, companies and insurance companies billions each year. This type of crime must therefore be combated much more firmly and effectively than is the case today. We are debating the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Customs Agency is given an increased opportunity to intervene against crimes. Customs has a crucial role to play in the fight against cross-border crime. The fact that Customs officials have been prevented from detaining persons and goods on suspicion of a crime has therefore been a serious deficiency. The Moderates, as well as a large number of other parties, have for a long time demanded that the Customs Agency be given increased powers to combat crime, including through increased possibilities to stop stolen goods at the border. We therefore welcome the fact that the Customs Agency is given some increased opportunities to intervene against crimes. It is, of course, a good thing that the totally unreasonable regulations that apply today – that customs does not have the right to keep stolen goods and thieves at the border while waiting for the police to come – are corrected. But, Madam President, it is obvious that it is inadequate. The committee therefore proposes three announcements which we Moderates support. I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 6 on measures against the export of stolen goods. Today, only a few per cent of Customs' total controls are carried out by the Swedish Customs Agency. In addition, Customs has no right whatsoever to carry out checks in order to search for stolen goods. The proposals in the bill only give the Swedish Customs the right to intervene in connection with their regular checks. The proposal will therefore only be effective in situations where the Customs Agency encounters suspected stolen goods in its regular inspections. The Swedish Customs Service consistently states in its referral to the memorandum on which the proposal is based that the proposals do not alter the authority's mandate and do not in themselves lead the Swedish Customs to extend its exit controls. It is also an assessment shared by the Government, which notes that the effects of the proposal on the Customs Agency are considered to be limited. What can we conclude from this? Well, we can see that despite the fact that the problems with international theft leagues have been extensive and serious for many years, the government is putting forward a bill which certainly resolves the most outrageous shortcomings in the legislation but which basically does not get to the problem of theft goods being taken out of the country. This is another example, Madam President, of Sweden's real need for a new government. The Swedish Parliament has proposed several announcements to strengthen the Swedish Customs' law enforcement activities and to undertake a comprehensive review of the agency's ability to combat crime. The Government notes in the bill that several of these announcements are satisfied by the appointment of the investigation presented by Petter Löberg. But an investigation is an investigation and not a bill. The committee is therefore calling for the government to return promptly with proposals for a new comprehensive legislation that gives the Customs Agency greater powers to combat crime. An important part of such new legislation is that the Customs Agency is given increased opportunities to carry out export controls and to actively search for stolen goods in connection with it. In this context, consideration should also be given to making the export of stolen goods a crime under the Smuggling Act and to including stolen and stolen goods in the list of goods to be checked by the Finnish Customs. However, the fact that the Customs Agency is given an extended mandate to carry out export controls must not mean that controls to search for weapons and drugs or to prevent, for example, smuggling of human beings are prioritised, because that is incredibly important. Increased powers and a broader mandate need to be combined with the strengthening of customs resources. In their spring exercise, the Moderates have proposed that the Swedish Customs Agency should receive a reinforcement of SEK 400 million in three years' time. Of course, the preparation of new legislation needs to take further account of additional resource needs. Madam President, I would like Through low detection risk and mild penalties, Sweden is too attractive a place for crime networks that travel to Sweden to commit crimes. It is a crime that affects a great many people and companies in Sweden and that needs to be combated more effectively. Customs plays a major role in the possibility of stopping stolen goods from being taken out of the country and in accessing the crime networks responsible for thefts. In order to resolve this, customs must be given the right powers as well as sufficient resources. There we are not yet.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-847	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the report by the Committee on Justice on enhanced possibilities for the Customs Agency to intervene against crimes. Of course, I support all of our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 3. The fact that the Customs Agency is finally given an increased opportunity to intervene against crimes is both good and long-awaited. It is also positive that the government has set up an investigation to investigate customs' powers in the future. Cross-border organised crime is significant both in its scope and in the damage to Swedish society. Every year many farmers, craftsmen, boat owners and others are affected by the progress of foreign theft leagues. Sweden is almost a paradise for the foreign theft leagues. The proposed legislative changes are an important piece of the puzzle to put an end to the foreign theft leagues. But the puzzle is far from complete. It takes a lot more pieces for the puzzle to be complete. Madam President, I would like For many years now, we Swedish democrats have been exercising more powers and resources for customs officials in this regard, as it has been a real and recognised problem for a long time. The proposed amendments give the Swedish Customs the right to intervene, but only in situations where they already carry out control activities under the Customs Act or the Internal Borders Act. In response to this, the Government argues that the proposed amendment provides for the possibility to intervene when customs officials encounter suspected crime not covered by the authority's powers and that the aim is not to change the current regime, where the police and prosecutors have the general and overall responsibility for law enforcement. The government's basic position that it is primarily the police's responsibility to fight crime is certainly reasonable. However, in this case, we believe that the proposed changes do not go far enough. Even if the police bear the overall responsibility, there are, in our opinion, cases where, for example, Customs is better suited to perform certain tasks. The fact that the police then take over cases should not prevent authorities such as the Swedish Tax Agency or the Finnish Customs from carrying out law enforcement work. The law enforcement work of different authorities is of a different nature. The Customs Agency is in place at the borders of the country and has in cases where the Police Authority cannot be present an opportunity to intervene against crimes. This possibility should, in our view, be fully exploited, not only in the direct context of controls. The government should therefore, in accordance with the committee's announcement in this report, set up an investigation into how the customs authorities' law enforcement activities can be developed and what requirements this places on the organisation and training of the agency's staff. Madam President, I would like If the Customs Agency is given an enhanced law enforcement mission, the powers of customs officials in the context of intervention will also be reviewed. The government briefly touches on this in the bill, but further action is needed in connection with the expansion of the mission. We also believe that the issue of the arming of customs officials should be covered in such an investigation, as the current possibility is considered too narrow given the situations in which customs officials can be assumed to operate and be exposed. Madam President, I would like The most important thing, however, is for customs to be given an extended mandate to control the export of stolen goods. Last year, more than 36 000 vehicles were checked on their way into the country. Only about 350 vehicles were checked on their way out of the country. The Government's proposal does not provide for increased possibilities to carry out customs controls, and the agency's activities will continue to focus mainly on import controls rather than export controls. Of course, we Swedish democrats also believe that it is a very important task to prevent, for example, the introduction of drugs and weapons and the trafficking of human beings. However, this should not prevent the export of, among other things, stolen goods from being controlled to a much greater extent than is currently the case. It is also the responsibility of the Government to provide the Authority with the resources necessary for the full implementation of both responsibilities. The Customs Agency must therefore be given an extended mandate where checks are carried out on both imports and exports. The current proposal we are considering today is a good one, but it will unfortunately be toothless and pale if customs do not get the task and the resources to control outgoing goods much more in the future.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-859	Madam President, I would like Today, we are dealing with the government proposal which gives customs officials an increased opportunity to intervene in the event of a suspicion of a crime. These are crimes that the Finnish Customs today do not have the authority to investigate. The committee also proposes an announcement that the government should return to Parliament with proposals for a new comprehensive legislation that gives the Customs Agency greater powers to fight crime. The committee also proposes that an extended mandate be given to the Customs Agency to control the export of goods as well as the importation of goods. Finally, the committee proposes that the Riksdag decide that the export of stolen goods should constitute an independent crime under the smuggling law. I'm just saying, finally! How many times this issue has been debated here in Parliament! A number of calls have been made to the government. As long as it has been going on, so much stolen goods that have left the country so far and so much money that people lost when goods were stolen! So many theft leagues, often with an international base, that have ravaged Sweden for so many years! Finally! What is being proposed is a step towards better law enforcement at the Swedish border. But we need to follow up on the announcements in this House, so that the government, whatever it may be in the future, will follow the decision we have taken here. Madam President, I would like Customs is a bit different as an authority. The main tasks of the Customs Agency are to ensure proper collection, to monitor and control traffic to and from Sweden and to declare customs duties. The Agency shall also prevent and combat crime related to the entry and exit of goods. As we have heard, the Customs Agency's regulations state that it will increase the level of ambition when it comes to preventing the smuggling of narcotics, weapons and explosives. The illegal introduction of alcohol and tobacco should also be the focus. The Customs Agency is under the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Committee, but has a law enforcement activity that is dealt with by the Justice Committee. It is good, not least for the Customs Agency itself, that the Riksdag now announces the need for new and comprehensive legislation on customs powers. It is also good that this work has already begun. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes in the bill that a customs official in connection with a customs control should be able to intervene in case of suspicion of a crime. That's good, but it's not enough. The Center Party believes that the Customs Agency should be given an obligation, not just an opportunity, to intervene when the authority fears that stolen goods are about to leave the country. The Government argues in the bill that there may be situations where an official is forced to choose between acting against crime outside the agency's ordinary activities and carrying out a task within the agency's ordinary activities. However, such situations may arise for more authorities and administrative activities. That in itself cannot be an argument for not working more law enforcement. In my opinion, the public has quite legitimate expectations that uniformed officials of a law enforcement authority should be able to intervene in the service if a crime is discovered. The suspicion of crime can be detected if checks are carried out both on entry and on exit across Sweden's border. That is what we think needs to be clarified in an announcement. At present, the activities of the Customs Agency focus mainly on import controls rather than export controls. It is, of course, a very important job, as many of us have said here, to prevent the introduction of drugs and weapons and to prevent trafficking in human beings. However, checks on entry should not prevent the exit of stolen goods from being checked. The Customs Agency should therefore be given an extended mandate to carry out checks also on outgoing shipments. Madam President, I would like Last Sunday, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, who is responsible for the Swedish Customs Agency, spoke on radio. She thought that the new law is just a piece of the puzzle in the government's larger initiative, where the police should primarily work against theft leagues. That's good. I'll do that. But she also said something to which I reacted quite strongly. She said that although customs officials themselves believe that more controls would be a good method, she did not want to give customs any new directives to increase the number of controls. If I thought it was an effective method, then of course we would have done it a long time ago. But the assessment is that working in an intelligence-based and modern way is very much more effective than standing and looking for a needle in a haystack. ..................................................... You're looking for a needle in a haystack. Is that how the Minister of Finance thinks customs and its officials work? Having said that, I have a few greetings to the Minister for Finance. The first greeting is: There is a four-wheeler stolen every other day in Sweden. For two years there have been 576 registered and missing quadricycles, which you can read on Alarmtjänst's website. Shall we say that a four - wheeler costs 50 000 – 150 000 kroner? Multiply it with 576 then it might even be worth looking for a needle in a haystack. The second greeting is: If intelligence-based and modern working methods mean that police and customs should work more together, we have a fact today that the police rarely or never prioritise to come out and start investigating, questioning or securing evidence when a report of theft of quadricycles or other stolen goods is reported. At least it didn't do it in my house when mine was stolen. Nor did it with my fellow Member's neighbor when that quad was stolen. It's a little hard to work intelligence-based then. That's my reflection. We are dealing with this through a number of measures which do not fall within the scope of customs, such as more police officers, punitive measures, because the police give priority to the value of the sentence, and the abolition of the quantity rebate in the event of more thefts. However, all of this is based somewhere on the fact that the police actually go out and start questioning and secure evidence. I can't help but reflect that sometimes there are resources. Some time ago a wolf was killed during the domestic attack according to the so-called emergency protection clause. This was in Värmland, and I think it was in Sunne. Consider the surprise when the police came out to sheep's pasture, even in the middle of the night, to secure evidence that it was not an illegally killed wolf. This was done despite the fact that the maximum sentence for grand theft is six years and a serious hunting offence is a maximum of four years. Madam President, I would like Instead, as victims of crime, we are called upon to start neighbourly cooperation against crime, lock the quadricycle properly, use DNA marking and GPS pucks. We're gonna level our vehicle so you can't track it through commercials. All of these are, of course, very good things. But if we've done our part, without police support, then the authorities will do their part. If it is necessary to stand and look for a needle in a haystack, so be it. The legitimacy of our authorities is one of the most important things to maintain. If customs, as so far, are sometimes forced to release stolen goods from the country, legitimacy disappears. That is why we must go beyond what the government proposes in this bill. Customs must have the authority and the obligation to intervene at any time, both on entry and exit. Making the export of stolen goods out of the country a crime according to the smuggling law, which we address to the government, is probably the easiest. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-878	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have long pushed the government before them on the issue of the powers of the Customs Agency. The main reason for this is to access the large export of stolen goods from Sweden every year. As my colleagues have mentioned here from the speaker's chair, it is up to 90 per cent of all stolen goods that are taken out of Sweden, and it is foreign theft leagues that account for at least 50 per cent of the burglaries. The Customs Department is not an authority under the police. However, it has an important law enforcement function and is in need of a number of important reforms to function better as such an authority. The Customs Department is today strongly focused on being a tax collector under the Ministry of Finance and is also looking for drugs and illegal weapons. However, at the present time, customs has too little authority. This means that Tullverket is part of a chain that has made Sweden known as a sandwich table for international theft leagues. Customs is often forced to watch suspicious stolen goods leave the country, and it lacks a mission to check their exit. Customs needs to become, to a greater extent, a border protection authority that can prosecute all types of offences at the border. The Christian Democrats believe that the Customs Agency should be given a clearer mission to control, stop and detain, detainees, people at the border. Customs' sharper powers will allow it to better control the inflows and outflows of goods and people in the country. It is a fact that both individuals and entrepreneurs are severely affected both economically and operationally when theft leagues act in our country. As I have said before, thefts from these crimes are in practice being carried out unchecked across the border. I would like to take an example from reality. Some time ago I met a trader who has his business not too far from the border with Norway. He had been affected several times by burglaries and thefts with both high costs and great impact on his business. His direct message to me was: Make sure customs tightens control at the border. Madam President, I would like Recently, the government has submitted a bill with the educational name Tullverket is given an extended opportunity to intervene against crimes. The Christian Democrats have long asked for a change on this point. Will the government's proposal have the desired effect? Let us ask the responsible authority, the Finnish Customs Agency, which writes in its reply as follows: The proposal also does not alter the authority's mandate and therefore does not in itself lead the Customs Agency to extend its exit controls. The situations in which the Customs Agency may intervene on the basis of the proposal are thus those in which, according to regular operations, the authority carries out checks. ..................................................... To be clear, there will be no money and no new assignments. Therefore, nothing will change. The new law, according to Customs itself, is a blow to the air. The question is: Is the government satisfied with the law? Everyone who has two ears and eyes has known exactly what needed you to be done for years. The Swedish Customs has alerted, the insurance industry has alerted, the Swedish Commerce Federation has alerted and the boat industry has alerted. Everyone has understood the problems, except the government. There are major gaps in how the control will take place when, according to the Government's proposal, the Customs Agency will only intervene in cases of suspicion of a crime in connection with customs control. However, since most of the goods transported by theft leave Sweden, the law, despite the promises of the great orders last year, will only marginally affect the activities of the gangs of theft. It was reported last spring that of the approximately 25 000 controls carried out by customs at the border, only 350, i.e. about 1.5%, were intended for transport out of our country. Thus, the government's proposals that we are discussing today will not change the substance of the theft leagues. Customs will continue to be able to stand and see how stolen goods are brought out of our country. Madam President, I would like The government's election-handed handling of the issue has meant, and will continue to mean, that Sweden is still a gold mine for international theft leagues. This must change. The government's proposal contains more gaps that need to be closed. The Government proposes that a customs official should be able to intervene in cases of suspicion of crimes that the Customs Authority does not have the independent authority to intervene against. This is far too weak a writing. The Customs Department must have an obligation to intervene in case of suspicion of a crime, just like the police. It is also under all criticism that the Swedish Customs Agency is not given the opportunity to look independently for stolen goods, which are probably the most common illegal goods that are taken out of the country, but which today do not fall under the authority of the Finnish Customs. In accordance with what the Swedish Commerce Federation says, the export of stolen goods should become a smuggling offence. Changes also need to be made to the Customs Office's mission, where the agency's activities are directed towards focusing more on controlling the export of goods to detect stolen goods. We Christian Democrats show with our proposals that we are prepared to give the Customs Agency a clear direction and the conditions for an expanded mission. It is time we made the flow of stolen goods across borders more difficult. On the basis of what I have presented, I therefore propose to accept reservation 4. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that the potential benefits for society that would arise if Sweden got better border protection would be extensive. Fewer people would be staying illegally in Sweden, and there would be fewer illegal weapons and less drugs that criminals could sell in alienation areas. It is also time to take seriously the problems created by the gangs of theft for citizens and entrepreneurs in Sweden and act. One might wonder how the government is reasoning. Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg was during last year several times out and said that you should change things so that the Swedish Customs will become something that meets the gangs' activities. And so we stand here today with a bill which, according to the Customs Service itself, will not change a thing in their work. Yesterday's decision shows that Parliament does not have confidence in the S-MP government. Today's case is another example of how careless and uninterested the government is dealing with ordinary people's problems with the activities of theft leagues. Once again, you promise around but you keep thin. It looks like the story of the man who went to the master tailor and ordered a suit. In the story as well as in the authority of the Customs, the result is the same. What was the answer to the question? Even here it sounds: There was nothing to it. This parliamentary year, the Legal Affairs Committee has addressed many announcements to the Government. This file completes the list which brings together 101 announcements by a majority in Parliament. Do it again, do it right! In this case too, three notices to the Government have been sent to Parliament's Legal Affairs Committee 101 times during this parliamentary year. Madam President, I would like I support the announcements made on this matter, as well as the requests and reservations of the Christian Democrats, but in this debate I only call for reservation 4. This is my last speech on behalf of the Committee on Justice this parliamentary year, so I will end by wishing everyone a pleasant summer!
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-901	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are behind all their motions in this report, but in order to gain time, we are only calling for reservation 2 on exemptions for environmentally-tested activities. We support a large part of the Government's proposal, including amendments to the Electricity Act in order to make it easier to expand the electricity grid in Sweden, that it should take less time and that the licensing processes should be more efficient. More modern condition processes for electricity grids are something we have been looking for. Sweden needs more fossil-free energy. We are facing a huge increase in the need for electricity. This is a good thing. In recent years it is not a real increase in energy demand that has been added, but a gigantic shift from fossil fuels to electrification and the supply of other climate-smart forms of energy. Madam President, I would like However, there are major challenges that we must not ignore. Firstly, we do not have sufficient electricity production. Our electricity needs will increase. Some calculations refer to a doubling, others even a triple of today's consumption. In addition, the electricity generation that is being expanded in Sweden is not planned. Solar and wind energy is good but must be balanced with water and nuclear power in order to withstand power and balance in the electricity grids. That is why we are not in favour of subsidising offshore wind infrastructure. We should preferably not subsidise any type of energy, but it is mainly electrical energy that can be planned that we need. Even if we export more cheap electricity than ever in the days it blows and there is a surplus of fossil-free electricity, it is therefore nothing that the Swedish taxpayers should subsidise. Madam President, I would like Secondly, we have one of the oldest electricity infrastructures in the world. Sweden was early out with electrification, and now we have to renew the infrastructure. This will, of course, be expensive, but it is necessary. This is, among other things, what we need to invest in, not the massive expansion of electricity infrastructure into offshore wind power. It may use its own wings, we believe. Thirdly, we do not have the same need and location for energy consumption and production as before. The decommissioning of nuclear power plants affects electricity generation in areas 3 and 4. Nuclear power cannot be completely replaced by solar and wind with today's technology, as storage technology is extremely limited. The smartest thing is if energy production is close to consumption, as nuclear power has worked. That way we will avoid several massive electric highways from production, often in the north, to consumers, often in the south. Madam President, I would like Fourthly, it is not a total solution to the problem either. Electricity generation in the north will be needed for new battery plants, computer halls and fossil-free steel. We have only a few more years of electricity surpluses in areas 1 and 2. Large industrial investments are made in Norrland through electrification of both mines and steel mills, but also through the establishment of large battery factories and data storage halls in northern Sweden, thanks to the safe access to electricity and relatively low prices there. Fifthly, Sweden is currently exporting a lot of electrical energy, but it is wind energy and not planned production. This means that for countries with coal-fired power plants it is very climate-smart imports, but for us imports are the opposite: it is electricity from coal-fired power plants that is globally worse for the climate than if we were to produce that electricity ourselves in our nuclear power plants. Madam President, I would like What sets us apart from what is proposed in the government proposal is that as a basic grant we want fossil-free electricity production as a goal, not primarily a renewable one. We want to be able to run several licensing processes for electricity infrastructure at the same time during the permit process. We also believe that times must be shortened in order for the production of both electricity and infrastructure to be in place in a reasonable time. Of course, it can mean increased costs for electricity grid companies if any authority says no. But it speeds up the processes from today about ten years to hopefully eight years, which is crucial for all of us if we are to have the electricity supply we expect as citizens and entrepreneurs. We also want the electricity interconnection target to be increased to 25% to other EU countries, both to create greater flexibility in the electricity market and to facilitate the export of electricity, all to increase the share of fossil-free electricity in electricity energy, but also to make the system more robust for both Sweden and other EU countries. Madam President, I would like We want to protect and want to develop all existing fossil-free energy sources. Small hydroelectric power is one of them. We want to create policies that enable new smart grids and new business models in the electricity market. Therefore, the government's planned electricity market hub has survived itself. We lose efficiency if we go back to a centralist model. The electricity market today is more diversified than that. We also do not want an electricity customer to be assigned to an electricity supplier that there is an obligation to hire, but the customer should be allowed to choose for himself. Madam President, I would like Since so much is happening in the energy and electricity sector right now, we want a future long-term planning of electricity grid regulation to be developed. The electricity market is quite different today than when the country was electrified. Today we are both consumers and producers. We use electricity for almost all functions in society, and we have never been more dependent on electricity. We also want energy policy to be based on facts. There cannot be subsidies to certain forms of energy and not to others. We must ensure that electrical energy is in the quantity and strength we need when we need it.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-916	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, we are content to ask for the approval of reservation 3. Throughout red-green government ownership, developments in several areas in Sweden have gone in the wrong direction, not least in the area of energy policy. During these years we have seen an impact balance that has continuously deteriorated and reached levels that are the worst in decades. We have become more dependent each year on imports from our neighbours, and during the most difficult hours during the winter months we are not able to support ourselves on electricity in Sweden. This has been strongly driven by the fact that we have prematurely shut down functioning nuclear reactors in Sweden, along with ill-considered tax increases and subsidies. This, in turn, has driven the development of transmission capacity gaps and further reduced the margins of the electricity system. Now we can see the consequences in terms of large price differences within the country. Last summer we saw record price differences. Already at the beginning of the summer we have seen double, triple or even quadruple prices in southern Sweden compared to the rest of the country. The fact that we now have problems during the summer with operational safety and that Swedish power networks are forced to make a forecast of operational safety for the summer months is a complete failure and something that has never had to be done before. Since the Riksdag has declared that the Prime Minister and his government do not have the confidence of the Riksdag, this may lead us to see the end of the development with the hope that a new political direction can be taken in this area as well. The report deals with the proposal Modern permit processes for electricity grids. It is a legislative proposal that aims to make it easier to apply for a permit and that the authorisation procedure should be reduced in time for the expansion of electricity networks in Sweden. It is a good proposal, but unfortunately it has taken far too long before it has landed on Parliament's table. It is also gratifying that the proposal can now be adopted almost unanimously. The expectation of the proposal is to reduce the average time of the authorisation process for the roll-out of electricity networks by about two years. This is of course a good thing, but it is far from enough and must be related to the time of 10 to 12 years that it is currently taking on average to expand the electricity grids. It is a completely unreasonable lead time and has a clearly negative impact on the competitiveness of Swedish companies and community planning for municipalities. Will companies even be willing to wait for the conditions to build a new factory, establish a larger business or build new neighborhoods? The most likely thing is that, at best, you go to other places within the country, and in the worst case, you move abroad instead. A reasonable objective would have been to halve lead times. The proposal should only be seen as a first step in such a goal of a halving. The report already highlights several proposals by the opposition for further shortening lead times. For example, both rights of way and exceptions for already environmentally tested activities are involved. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that landowners' landmines and respect for property rights are important. The limitations shall not be unduly large. Like an old colonial power, it is not possible to draw straight lines on a map of where to build it and create uncertainty in many people. They can see that their land is affected or that their house is on the stretch for the power grid expansion, and they are worried about what is going to happen and how it will affect them. Here lies a large part of the potential in questions about the purely educational from the respective network companies and the Swedish power network. They must be able to explain why it is important to extend electricity lines, what they are aiming for and why such restrictions must be made. It is about saving time in appeal proceedings with smooth consultations. They then require action at an earlier stage. There is still a need for honesty in the case of overhead lines. They are dependent on what management development should be aimed at, which is important to have with them. The part that affects many indirectly is the compensation that everyone receives for the land. Even if the compensation to landowners in the event of land infringement was increased more than ten years ago, it is clear that landowners affected by multiple infringements and accumulated infringements are not sufficiently compensated by the current compensation system. Here it would be important to continue to work on remuneration issues in the exploitation of high-voltage lines. Madam President, I would like The second part of the report concerns electricity market issues. What is lacking at an overall level is the severe imbalance that is emerging between planned and weather-dependent power generation. The planned power production contributes with system benefits that are needed for the power system to function, but the policy pursued has instead been fully focused on being guided primarily by its ideological visions and dreams rather than starting from the needs in reality of a functioning power system. Here we can see that there is nothing in the current agreement on energy policy, which has also cracked, which is working in such a way that progress can be reversed and the balance of power strengthened in the long term. Rather, it is exactly the opposite. Therefore, there is a need to review a market model within the existing market that can respond to the needs to be able to cope with the long-term supply of electricity and to achieve a more cost-effective power system. At the same time, there are proposals that the government is threshing with years in and out with a highly unclear benefit. For almost ten years, work has been under way on an electricity trader-centric market model and electricity market hub. Several million have already been spent on something that may not be carried out at all and where analyses of the envisaged model show a clear negative outcome to the socio-economic benefits of the proposal. Above all, time has run away from the need for such a model. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, recently presented an alternative to this outdated reform. We believe that it can be scrapped in favour of proposals that really increase competition in the electricity market and strengthen the position of customers. It is proposed to strengthen the regulatory framework for switching suppliers where the customer's position and the right to switch electricity companies need to be strengthened as well as to reward fair commercial practices. We can see a need to abolish the instruction agreements because a relatively large proportion of electricity customers today do not make an active choice of electricity companies, but in most cases are assigned an agreement that is unnecessarily expensive for them. Such a change would clearly reduce costs for electricity customers immediately. There is a need for simplified invoices. Many customers experience electricity bills as messy and difficult to understand. It also makes it difficult for electricity customers to be active and choose electricity companies. Instead of costly forced joint invoice management, we believe that such a voluntary industry-wide dialogue could be initiated to resolve the issue, and that would be much more cost-effective. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to succeed in electrification, keep a functioning electricity market together and ensure an equal price picture within the country and long-term strong electricity supply, reforms will be needed to develop the electricity market. But above all, Sweden needs a new government in order to implement this.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-932	Madam President, I would like Permit processes sound incredibly unsexy in so many ways, but it is a fundamental part of a democracy and of our society. It can be about a lot of different things. Now we will be talking electricity grids, but today we have also seen permit processes that mean that we cancel the world's largest e-sports event here in Sweden when contestants are not allowed to enter the country. This is completely absurd, and the fact that the government has not been able to resolve it is really nothing but embarrassing. We have an incredible number of licensing processes. Here we are talking about the electricity grids, but we also have processes for renewable energy and for energy supply at all, as we have heard previous speakers talk about. We have great opportunities here in Sweden. We can do a lot of things. We have companies that are standing and stomping to be able to change but which today do not get the chance because the state bureaucracy and the state authorities are laying hooks. This is absurd to me. We must use the conditions we have. It is a competitive advantage for AB Sweden. That is what lays the foundations for our companies to remain competitive on the international market. It is about ensuring that electricity prices are stable and low over the year in order to achieve competitiveness as a whole. Electricity prices can be high at times and very low at times, but the important thing is that the total price is competitive. Then we also need to manage the transmission capacity. It is a key to bringing in more renewable energy throughout Sweden. We often talk about that we need more electricity lines from northern Sweden to southern Sweden. But if we look a little further forward, we see that it is perhaps rather southern Sweden that needs to expand and share the power with northern Sweden, because that is where the industrial efforts come. This is where the great use of electricity will come from. Then it is fantastic that we have very good conditions for offshore wind power, for example, not least in southern Sweden, so that we can relieve the northern hydropower when needed and export electricity north to ensure that the friends there also get more jobs and entrepreneurship. Instead of just exporting the raw material to the south, you can refine it on site and create an added value that we can sell not only in the rest of Sweden but also internationally. It is something that will be worth taking on. However, it is necessary to ensure that the transmission capacity is in place. The reports are rife with lack of capacity. There is talk of the electricity crisis, but basically it is not that we have too little electricity, but that we have too little transmission – most recently in my constituency of Gothenburg and on the west coast, where you will soon see that you are going to hit the ceiling. New pipelines need to be built, and then we cannot have a situation in which it is the state that is laying hookbones for development. Here we need a government that acts more clearly. We need new directives for Swedish power grids. We need more simplification. We need to expand by margin in the same way as the railways did. When you built it in the 1850s you didn't count on traffic that goes over 200 kilometres an hour and can take thousands of people in total. They were built almost for horse-and-wagon traffic, although possibly a little automated. It is the same railway now because it was built with capacity. You touched it when you did it. That's also why we can get Northvolt into Skellefteå. There was capacity. You didn't build just as much as you needed. It had been used a little extra. We have to do that now. It creates social benefits, and it creates business opportunities that we do not otherwise get. We must also ensure that the forms of compensation for those affected are developed. Landowners must receive continuous compensation instead of expropriation. You don't want to lose your land. You might want to lend it for compensation, but you do not want it seized by the state. Here it is a pity that the government has not taken into account the full investigation potential that actually existed in what the Online Concession investigation presented. Only parts are now chosen to join the Riksdag. One example is micro-networks, which are not properly developed, and which could also be further expanded so that electricity can be shared between buildings. If me and the neighbor have a good roof, it's not a problem. But if my roof is shaded and the neighbor's conditions are better for solar electricity, then it is more reasonable that we put up twice as many solar cells on the neighbor's roof and divide the electricity than that I will have to harvest trees to get less shade. What is also missing and which we refer to in reservation 2 of the report, which I would therefore like to support, are the networks which are not subject to concession but which are already tested for the environment. This sounds advanced, but it's not. This could be a network located within a wind farm. If the park is a little too big, the network monopoly suddenly goes in and demands that you have a concession for it, and there is a risk that you can't have it as your own network within the park. This is completely unreasonable, because it is not anyone else who will connect on that network. Then it is better that you get the opportunity to do it yourself and build the web on your own. It will save money, time and government resources. But the government has chosen not to go on with that, and I think that is a pity. Of course, we also need to reform electricity grid legislation. We need profitability in flexibility. Where there is currently no return on using flexibility, it needs to come in. We need more research and development so that we can actually take advantage of the new technologies. We also need research on the actual network regulation and on the model and the monopoly, because we can clearly see internationally that those who research on their network development also have a more efficient system. These are very many things that are, of course, easy to say but more difficult to implement. There are conflicts of interests. For example, more nets will mean more collisions with birds. But then we have to ask ourselves what happens if we don't. How many birds will die as a result of increased emissions? What exactly is the alternative? Here I think the government is not delivering. You don't have the guts to deal with the target conflicts. Of course, we also have goal conflicts with local acceptance. Swedish power networks are perceived to go on very buffery and untransparent. They need to be more transparent, for example with the replacement models. But they also need to have a more open perspective, consult with people, get them with them and also show from the government and of course the Riksdag that this is not just a climate issue. It is about jobs and entrepreneurship and the transition to greater international competitiveness. It may simply be that if we do not build these lines, then people will lose their jobs. It is not the argument that is being put forward today, but it is very clear when you talk to steel companies, chemical companies and other industrial companies that need this power. The fact that you have not been able to communicate this actually gives a lower grade to the government, because this is crucial for Swedish competitiveness and Swedish transformation, but actually also for Swedish health. More electrification instead of fossil fuels creates less air pollution, which in turn leads to better health. More electrification also leads to a reduced need for imports of oil from Russia, for example, which improves our security policy situation. There's really everything to win here, and we in the Center Party will take advantage of those chances. We have put forward clear proposals to improve and simplify and make it faster to change Sweden. It should be taken care of by more people.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-957	Madam President, I would like It feels a little strange to start by saying that you agree with the Center Party in a debate one day like this, but I can start that way. It is a very urgent matter that we are debating now, namely modern licensing processes for electricity grids. The question that may arise is why this matter should be urgent or particularly important. Well, I'll try to give you my picture and my idea of why it becomes and is important. The purpose of these amendments to the Electricity Act is to make it easier to expand the electricity grid in Sweden and to make the authorisation procedure less resource-intensive for both the electricity grid companies and the relevant authorities. And that is a good thing – the aim is to stimulate the expansion of renewable electricity production in particular, but also, of course, to solve the problems we have in the electricity grid system. Madam President, I would like Together with colleagues in my party, I have met actors who will do something of wonders in Swedish industry, namely make a transition to being sustainable. The end products should be completely emission-free within two decades, and some have even announced that it can go much faster than that. What came out at all meetings was that the permit processes take too long, regardless of which permits are intended. Electricity networks will, of course, be crucial to the success of these heavy operators in their transition. Another point that came out in our discussions was that electricity at competitive prices is important, as is reliability, but also that renewables will be a sales point for the final product, when it should be called green and emission-free. The report we are debating contains a lot, from small to large. Let me touch on a few things that I think are important to mention. Wind power is a type of production that will increasingly be crucial if we are to cope with the change in industry and transport. Much more electricity generation will be needed in Sweden. But to bring the locals and the municipalities with them is not super simple, I can tell you. If we are to be able to expand production teams, including wind power, the expansion must take place throughout Sweden. And that's where offshore wind comes in. Although there is great potential for offshore wind power in Sweden, construction is only now taking off. The offshore wind power is currently mainly located in southern Sweden. In addition to the obvious climate gains, offshore wind power also provides more jobs as much work needs to be done on the ground. Developed offshore wind power in southern Sweden would also reduce the load on the transmission capacity from the northern to the southern parts of the country. Although the construction and operating costs of offshore wind power are high, annual production is significantly higher. A large part of the costs can be attributed to the network connection. In the Energy Commission, in which we are not involved, as well as in the Energy Policy Agreement, it is argued that the connection charges for the core network should be abolished for offshore wind power. I am in favour of this, although, of course, further measures are needed to promote the activities of offshore wind power. The connection fee is the cost of drawing the electricity from the wind turbines to the power stations and connecting them to the common electricity grid. Today, electricity producers bear that cost, but another option would of course be for Swedish grids to bear the cost. This would increase investment opportunities and be a clear focus on more offshore wind energy. Now the government must move from words to action on the abolition of the accession fee. I believe that the government should return to Parliament with an account of how to abolish the offshore wind connection charge. Madam President, I would like In this respect, it is excellent that I am in favour of our reservation 21, which deals precisely with the abolition of the offshore wind connection charge. Of course, we support our other reservations, but, as I said, I am only in favour of reservation 21. The expansion of wind power has been the subject of a major discussion in some parts of the country, where it is felt that everything will be built in northern Sweden. Large areas are used for wind farms, and the southern part of the country does not have expansions. It is therefore particularly important that we get offshore wind farms in southern Sweden started and can point to wind power being built throughout the country. How can I convince rural people to say yes to wind farms in the forest landscape if offshore parks are not built a mile at sea, where they can only be seen as a few centimetres high winds from land, while at the same time seeking permission for large parks around villages just one kilometer from settlement? That is why, Madam President, it is important to get the major construction plans going at sea. As I said, both large and small are involved in this bill. The contribution of solar electricity and solar panels is also something that we have learned when progress has been made on renewables. Personally, I can see that solar power production even works at my home, and I am still the northernmost Member of Parliament today. Today, Swedish power generation is based on highly centralised production with a focus on distribution to end customers via transmission networks, regional networks and local networks. However, this model is partly being redesigned, driven by rapid technological development, not least in the case of locally produced energy from solar cells, for example. However, a high concentration of solar cells can create local challenges in the network. These challenges could, we believe, be remedied by sharing, as Rickard Nordin also mentioned, the excess electricity with the neighbour via so-called micro-networks. Such micro-networks would also create great opportunities as solar cells can be more installed in optimal locations. In this way fewer solar cells are needed in total, which is positive from a resource perspective. Local micro-networks also allow microproducers to increase the profitability of installed solar cells, which can encourage more people to invest in solar electricity production. The network concession inquiry(SOU 2019:30) proposes that an internal low-voltage energy sharing network may be built or used without permission within its own premises and between buildings and installations which each have a connection to a pipeline or a wiring network used by means of a network concession. The aim is to be able to use the own produced electricity better. The Left Party supports the proposal, but at the same time feels it would be a pity not to take the opportunity to broaden the proposal to include the transfer of electricity between buildings, obviously within a clear, smaller geographical area, in order, as Mr Rickard said, to enable neighbours with different solar locations to share electricity with each other.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-979	Madam President, I would like Of course I support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation number 10 in the report. We live in an exciting time. You don't have to browse many leaves back in the calendar until you arrive at a time when many thought that we could gradually reduce our electricity needs. The electricity grid was then a non-question, and if it was discussed at all, it was primarily on the subject.' Can't you just remove those wires so we don't have to see them? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It was a while ago, but that's what it sounded like back then. It looks quite different today. I do not need to go further in time than at the beginning of this term of office, when I was a new Member and put forward proposals that Sweden should set a production target of 200 terawatt hours. Several people looked very sceptically at me; we have to bear in mind that this was the autumn of 2018. They were wondering if they hadn't heard wrong. Is she crazy? If I were to repeat the figure of 200 terawatt hours today, I would still get a little bit of questioning look, but for quite different reasons. As quickly as possible, electrification is taking place, and so quickly the need for electricity is increasing so that we can make the climate changes that are so much needed in both industry and the vehicle fleet. But I choose to see this transfer of positions as something positive, because we are at the threshold of a new electrification of our country that could truly realise the vision of becoming fossil-free and sustainable growth. I know that there is a great deal of consensus on that particular objective, but we have a lot of different views on the best way there. Madam President, I would like As everyone knows, it is not just about having stable, weather-independent and reliable production of electricity. It should also be able to be transported effectively from the source of production to the end user, and today's report deals with a number of proposals intended to sharpen that capability. A common weakness in today's regulations is that lead times are so desperately long. We are therefore fundamentally in favour of the proposal, and there is one proposal that we broadly support. M a we think there's a little more to do. Together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, we have a reservation in which we believe that the government should return to Parliament with even more powerful proposals to facilitate and shorten the permit periods for electricity grids. Experts believe that the proposals now on the table shorten these processes from ten years to eight years. Here we believe there is more to be done. We want to review everything from government resources to court proceedings. Madam President, I would like This report is, in fact, only about modern state-of-the-art procedures for electricity networks. However, licensing processes in general need a substantial take-up. I do not think there is anyone who really thinks otherwise, especially if you think it is important that growth and prosperity are created in our country. What we need to ask ourselves is why it takes so long right here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to quote the CEO of Vattenfall Anna Borg: a dramatically shortened permit processes and a well-functioning energy market are required. This is what she says when she talks about the conditions for Sweden to be able to develop technology to produce steel without coal. In recent decades, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has also said that the environmental code and its applications create major problems when companies want to start or develop businesses. Several voices around the country are raised when it comes to Sweden's electricity supply, most recently in West Sweden. As colleagues in this House have mentioned today, electricity shortages are threatening to affect this region too. It is about securing the supply of reliable electricity, and the electricity grids need to be upgraded and that is something that needs to be done quite quickly. These are issues that every politician should take seriously to find solutions to the problems we face. Madam President, I would like Another measure we propose in this report is to try a simpler regime for examining amendments, which would lead to a reduction in the administration of network operators and the review authority. In many cases, this would lead to shorter trial periods. In addition to facilitating the implementation of the projects concerned, resources would also be released for more complex projects. We Christian Democrats agree with this movement of ambition. On this point, however, it is questionable whether it would not be possible to simplify something further. It should be clarified that it is only the suitability of the change to be tested, not the whole plant. In addition, it is an unnecessarily high administrative bar to require an application when a notification should sometimes be sufficient. Madam President, I would like It's usually said that no human being is an island. The same applies to nations. Sweden does not live disconnected from the outside world, but in different ways we are closely connected with our neighbours. This is exactly as it should be and something we should support and work to develop. The border does not, of course, go to what is traditionally known as the Nordic region, but we have long been part of the European Community. We shall see this as an asset in the energy sector as well. Sweden should therefore strive for increased interconnection of a fossil-free energy system at European level. The more fossil-free electricity we can produce and export, the greater the chance to displace fossil-based and dirty electricity and the better for the climate and Sweden's economy. Sweden should work within the EU to change the target of renewable energy towards the target of fossil-free electricity, including nuclear energy. We also see a need for Sweden to increase its efforts to increase Swedish exports of Swedish fossil-free electricity as well as environmentally friendly energy technology. For this to be possible, the interconnection of EU Member States must be speeded up. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to raise one more question. The Government intends to target specific subsidies to offshore wind power in order to increase the rate of establishment. The Swedish Energy Agency has had a government task to analyse how connection charges for offshore wind power can be abolished, a task that was presented in a report 2018. We see that offshore wind has a role to play in the future energy supply and can see that the technology has matured. However, subsidies to offshore wind would have undesirable effects that do not meet system requirements. The Swedish Energy Agency's calculation model for eight wind farms gives a cost of SEK 10.5 billion, which will burden either the customer collective or the tax collective. At the same time, we know that the core network is lagging behind and requires significant efforts at a high pace to tackle capacity problems and to improve the functioning of the system, which is currently suffering from lock-in problems and imbalances. Resources need to be allocated where they can have the most effective effect. Added to this is that the market between different types of power is distorted, with the result that we have a forced expansion of offshore wind turbines that are at risk of putting aside the bones for existing and other new renewable power and for planned fossil-free power. It is a poor use of resources that will delay climate change rather than speed it up. The imbalances that are pushing the system more and more urgently demonstrate the need for planning and stabilising characteristics. In an additional assignment, the Energy Authority has stated that there is no market failure to target specific aid to offshore wind power. We are therefore opposed to these targeted subsidies.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1000	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 22 Modern licensing processes for electricity networks. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Madam President, I would like Modern condition processes for electricity grids are a long-awaited proposition. It is an area that we really need to change, so that it is faster to expand the electricity grids. We fully agree on this in this House. It is good that this bill has been tabled. We can also see it in the number of exercise from general exercise time. There are 41 motions with about 120 motions, and there are also four follow-up motions for the bill. The proposals in the bill are what the government considers most important to prioritise in order to shorten lead times for building electricity grids. In the concession investigation there are further proposals prepared by the Government. The government has not rejected any proposals contained in the investigation. This is the biggest time saving for electricity line building since Sweden received electricity. We're taking altitudes for double the use of electricity. To do this, we will triple the investments in the electricity grids and halve the permit period to build wires. The amendments aim to make it easier to expand the electricity network in Sweden and that the authorisation process will be less resource-intensive for both the electricity grid companies and the relevant authorities. It is also proposed to make it easier for network operators to take action without having to apply for a network concession. More pipelines should be able to be built and used with the support of a concession of an area. It shall also be possible to pool network concessions and divide a network concession for a line. The Energy Market Inspectorate shall be allowed to decide on access to land for survey work. It will also be easier to start a management operation and facilitate the early examination of permits for water activities by network operators. The proposals relate mainly to the large pipelines which currently have the longest lead times for construction, i.e. regional and transmission networks. Madam President, I would like The increasing electrification means that we need to do many things at the same time to meet the future electricity demand. We see that the development of society and technology is fast, and that is an ever-increasing demand for electricity, which places new demands on both production and electricity grids. Capacity-enhancing investments are therefore necessary to meet future needs. This proposal is part of that work, but we need to do more, as I started with. The electrification strategy, which the government is working on, is an important piece of the puzzle. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification, which takes a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector to enable increased electrification. A plan to deal with potential obstacles will also be included. It must be in place by October this year at the latest. The government has also set up an electrification commission to speed up the electrification of heavy road transport and the transport sector as a whole. The strategy and the Commission are complementary, particularly in the field of transport. Madam President, I would like Reducing lead times for expanding electricity networks also has consequences, which can be read about in the bill. The proposals help to shorten processing times and create a more flexible and modern regulatory framework that provides administrative facilitation and simplification for network companies and authorities. It will be faster to connect installations to the electricity grid. It is also assessed that the proposals will have no significant impact on landowners. The Land Survey will have to assess whether the purpose of the management will be met by other means or whether the inconvenience of the assignment from a general or individual point of view outweighs the advantages that the right of way may bring. This could also lead to an increase in the remuneration of landowners and to increased incentives for regional network operators to take land cable into account in planning or an alternative route of management in order to avoid conflicts with landowners who can extend the right of way procedure. As we know, there are discussions on the issue of compensation. I'm sure we've all heard about them. You think the compensation is too low. But of course there is also a big discussion about whether it should be ground or air line. As we have heard here from the pulpit, we will need both. We're gonna need an air line. Otherwise, we won't be able to do this. Madam President, I would like The proposals in the bill Modern permit processes for electricity grids will significantly shorten lead times, and in the investigation there are further proposals that are prepared. The proposals here are the most important ones to prioritise in order to shorten times, but there is more to do. This means that it is the largest time savings in electricity line building since Sweden received electricity. As this is the last debate for us in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a pleasant summer.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1015	Madam President, I would like We are in an exciting energy transition that is taking place both globally and here in Sweden. What happens is that renewables sweep the carpet with fossil and nuclear energy. In fact, 90 percent of all new electricity generation globally last year was renewable. Right now in Sweden we are building wind power faster than almost anywhere else in the world. It's expanding at an enormous rate. Even solar power is being expanded at record speed but from significantly lower levels, of course. Within a few years, wind power will pass through nuclear power in size in Sweden. This, of course, is fundamentally very positive. This means that we get lower CO2 emissions and better air quality so that fewer people die or get asthma. This means less risk of nuclear failure. Then, of course, challenges are created along the way. It sometimes sounds like we who advocate 100% renewable electricity generation believe that it should be a dance of roses. Of course, this is not the case, but challenges are created when you are going to make adjustments. First of all, wind power and solar power are weather dependent. It creates challenges for the system. Wind power in Sweden has so far been built mainly in northern Sweden, while nuclear power is mainly closed down in southern Sweden. This means that we need to become much smarter and more flexible in how we consume electricity. But it also, of course, calls for the extension of the electricity grid, which is why we are here today debating. Of course, this is a challenge. I think we all agree on that. It simply takes too long to expand the network in Sweden. But with this bill, we're taking a big step in the right direction. It is actually the greatest time savings that have been made in Sweden since our country was electrified. The ambition is to halve the permit period. And we combine it with a triple investment in the construction of networks. To shorten these times is quite complicated. It is a question of regulatory simplification, of authorities speeding up their processes, of course, and of network companies being able to take action without having to seek a new concession. These are some of the things that are included here. So it's a big step forward we're taking with this bill. And it is really about time that we got this in place. Having said that, I don't think we should completely settle for this, but we should get back to work. As the Left Party, among other things, has been involved in this debate, we need pipelines at sea to a much greater extent. We know, as I said, that wind power has so far been expanded most in northern Sweden and that it is nuclear power in southern Sweden that is being shut down. This will create an imbalance of power, and we simply need to bring in new electricity production. Then it is at sea that we have the greatest potential. The Green Party has set a target of 90 terawatt hours of sea wind by 2040, which is roughly in line with what the EU says Sweden will be able to cope with when breaking down the common EU target. But for it to be realised by 2040, we will need to expand the network at sea. That is why it is very good that the government has announced that it has that ambition. Then we'll see what happens to it. But it's going to have to, obviously. We also need to make it easier for small local networks, not least in the same building. Historically, Sweden has looked like this: We have large power sources, we have a network and we have continuous and consistent production and use of electricity, simply. It no longer looks like that, but we will have a more differentiated system in the future. Then it is good for the system as a whole that we can have more local communities for electricity generation and that they can be more independent and so on. And then it's great if you can facilitate that kind of development of the system. The steps we take and what we need to work with in the future will make it easier for what is and should be the ultimate goal: 100% renewable electricity generation. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1026	Madam President, I would like Sweden has historically large electricity surpluses. The record year 2019 was followed up by another year of large exports. It is exports that suppress fossil power in Europe but that also help our Nordic and Baltic neighbours to reduce their dependence on Russia. Sweden has a daily export of 44 gigawatt hours to Finland or about 18 terawatt hours annually. During a ten-year period, Sweden has gone from being a net importer of electricity to being a net exporter of electricity. At the same time, the fossil components of Sweden's electricity mix have decreased from seven terawatt hours to about one terawatt hour. It is a development that we should be proud of. But there are also challenges. Some cities are growing faster than the capacity that is often available. We have an effect deficit in southern Sweden. Nevertheless, Sweden is well placed in a European comparison of the impact situation. However, the licensing processes for the construction of new power lines are too long and too complicated. One of the most important measures to address these challenges is to shorten lead times for building new electricity lines. That is why we are setting the goal of halving the construction time for new lines. The bill that the government has now put on the table of Parliament and that we are now debating is an important part of that work. The proposals in the bill will lead to the greatest time savings for grid building since Sweden was electrified. The last big grip was that short lead times were taken in the 50's, that is, over 70 years ago. No previous government has done more to shorten the time for the construction of new pipelines than we do with the proposal that is now on the table of the Riksdag. We are also making historically large investments in the electricity grids. Over the next ten years, Svenska Kraftnät invests SEK 50 billion in the transmission network. At the same time, we are strengthening the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's budget to hire more administrators and short processing times, which have increased significantly. The entire concession procedure has been digitised to eliminate the need for time-consuming complements. But I would also like to be clear in this House: we are now taking the biggest step towards reducing lead times in over a hundred years, but we will have to take further steps. Sweden is facing a new wave of electrification, and the huge industrial and climate investments that are at hand should not be hindered by unnecessarily time-consuming licensing processes. We will implement more measures, but with this bill we are laying a good foundation for greatly shortened lead times. Let me conclude with a few words on what we have before us. Sweden, as I mentioned, is facing a significant electrification of industry and transport. Access to electricity will be crucial to cope with electrification and achieve climate goals, but also to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness as an industrial nation. The time when Sweden's Prime Minister stood at fine economic meetings and said that Swedish industry is basically Gone is long past. I welcome the fact that energy policy is now being debated and that there seems to be a great interest among parliamentary parties in discussing energy policy. I think it would be a strength for Sweden if we could once again agree across the block and create long-term rules for Swedish industry. But it requires all parties to be able to put the interests of the country above those of their own.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1036	Madam President, I would like Half-time permits would be fantastic, I think. It has been the Center Party's view for a long time, so it is nice that the government is now joining. More measures will also be implemented. I am then curious as to what measures the Government intends to take. The investigation contains several proposals that the government has chosen not to take further. What happened to them anyway? The internal networks in wind farms are an example; we can also talk micro-networks for local entrepreneurs. There are a number of other things that are not included in the bill. When are they coming?
i-4oQT4L5fYFDZRAsU7zdpMy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the questions! At this particular time, perhaps one should be a little careful to make promises about when products from the government come, but I will still say it so that it is clear: we went ahead with the parts of the investigation's proposals that cut lead times most. We felt that these proposals were the most urgent. We have not written off any of the other proposals. We are continuing to work with them at the Ministry, and the aim is to take the relevant proposals forward in the autumn. Of course, I welcome the fact that as many parties as possible join the goal of halving lead times.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1040	Madam President, I would like Now it was not the case that the measures contained in the investigation will halve the time of the permit process. The Government said: We will implement more measures. What has the government been thinking? I understand that these are uncertainties and other things, but what further proposals does the government have to bring down times? We are talking today about it taking ten to twelve years, and what's on the table now might cut it by one to two years. Well, then there's a lot of time left. What alexander chops do the government see in front of it? We should also remember that there are other things that point in the other direction. We just got a species protection investigation that looks like putting a dead hand over basically everything. We're not going to talk about wind farms. In principle, it will be illegal to do things unintentionally that affect bird life. It makes no sense. So we have in the second wave things that risk prolonging the state processes and making it even more difficult. I'm still curious. After all, the Government did not answer the question: What further measures do the Government see in addition to the proposal of the investigation in order for us to be able to halve the permit processes in general?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1043	Madam President, I would like I am happy to answer that question too, but I would just like to emphasise for the record that the previous question Rickard Nordin asked was what to do with the proposals in the investigation that were not included in the proposal. I answered that question. Then I would just like to emphasise that these proposals halve the lead times for certain pipelines. For regional networks, this will halve lead times. It is important that we reduce time for local networks, for regional networks and for core networks. It is also true that we are not getting all the way to the backbone of these proposals. Two years investigator Elisabet Falemo reckoned that we could hijack them. Then it's the average time, not the maximum time. These are very different proposals. In my speech, I mentioned some suggestions that we have announced or moved on with. Some of them we have agreed on, for example, to hire a great many more administrators at the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to shorten processing times. I also believe that we agree on the digitisation of the permit processes, which will cut a great deal of time. Swedish power networks have announced that they are re-consulting their consultation process to reduce times. However, I believe that further efforts will be needed. I have noted in the debate here today that some of the parties have made constructive proposals. I welcome that. I am prepared to work with all constructive parties in Parliament to achieve this goal. I can also assure Rickard Nordin that if this government remains in place with the support of the Center Party, we will be able to put forward many good proposals to cut the lead times for electricity networks.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1049	Madam President, I would like I will start by asking Anders Ygeman a question, which is Minister of Energy. I repeat a little of what I began my speech with. I don't know if you had time to listen to it because you came in then, but it's very possible. I quoted Vattenfall's CEO Anna Borg, who has said that dramatically shortened permit processes and a well-functioning energy market are required. She then talked about the conditions for Sweden to be able to develop technology to manufacture steel without coal. That is an issue that is very urgent. I believe that all parties want to be involved in helping us to do this in the best possible way. But then the licensing processes and the electricity market are a fairly important question for how we are going to get there. We welcome this proposal, but we do not think that we should have been able to do a little more. It is just like the question Rickard Nordin raised: Experts say you can shorten from ten to eight years. These are two years' shorter lead times that we can expect. At the same time, I hear the Minister say that with this bill, the strong proposal will make it easier to shorten the licensing processes. The proposal now before us is not as strong as I had hoped. There are some suggestions here that can be looked at further, but I wonder whether there is a timetable and whether this is currently being prepared by you at the Government Office. I was wondering if you could say anything about that. ( FIRST VICE PALMANN: I would like to remind the honourable Member that we are talking through the President and we are not using you )
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1053	Madam President, I would like I will take this opportunity to thank all the parties in Parliament for having had the opportunity to work so quickly in Parliament on this product. That is one of the reasons why we are able to put forward all these proposals before the summer break. We have worked very hard in the Government Office, but the Riksdag and the Committee on Economic Affairs have also made a real effort. I'll give you all the credit for that. Yes, we work with a long list of different suggestions of different dignity. I think that Camilla Brodin also knows that we have received some suggestions from the authorities. As I expressed in the debate with Rickard Nordin, we also have further proposals from the investigation to take forward. As far as they are concerned, however, we do not believe that we can cut lead times much more than marginally, but there are other proposals that have the potential to make a much greater impact on lead times. Having said that, I think we need to make further legislative changes, I would also like to say that we need to make sure that we work in the whole chain – in municipalities, in county boards and with those who apply for a concession and for management – because there are a lot of flaws there that mean that times are drawn out. It also does so at the Government Office when we deal with appeals. It must go faster than it has done so far. We have suggestions from the county administrative boards on how to proceed. We have come forward with proposals on how to work together between the county administrative board and the municipality with electrification plans. There will be a number of further such proposals that will end up on the table of Parliament but also in regulatory letters – and of course in the soft dialogue so that it is understood that this is important and prioritised. Where it has been important, for example with Hybrit, as Camilla Brodin himself mentioned, there has been phenomenal acceleration even with the old legislation.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1058	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by apologizing for not following the rules of the House in my previous line. Madam President, I would like The Minister here answers some of the issues I raised. I am also curious about how the Minister views offshore wind power and the subsidies that are now intended to be directed at precisely offshore wind power. I know that the Minister has sometimes said that it is not about subsidies but about something quite different, but I do not agree. Here we have different types of energy that are facing each other, and the Swedish Energy Inspectorate has returned to the fact that it is not a market failure so that we have to save offshore wind power. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister in this regard whether the Minister considers it to be a subsidy and whether there are any problems with what it intends to do in the future when we are going in with quite a large amount of money to ensure that offshore wind power is developed at a fairly rapid rate. I wonder how it can be incorporated into the Swedish electricity system as a whole with system services and so on that energy type may not contribute.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1062	Madam President, I would like I want to start with the simple department. The energy sources that provide support services will be paid for their benefits. The types of energy that do not provide support services will not be able to be paid, because then you will not perform any benefits that contribute to the system. That is a good basic principle. Then perhaps the wind industry has a different view of the system benefits it could offer than Camilla Brodin has, but we can discuss that another time. System services are designed so as to contribute to system benefits you get paid for them, otherwise not. Basically this is the case with the connection charges for offshore wind power as well. If you contribute with system benefits where we have problems with effect and already have strong connection nodes you can also get a reduction in the connection fee. That's how the system is supposed to work. This is something on which the Social Democrats, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Green Party and the Center Party have agreed. Then you left the energy agreement, and now you are criticising it, but you were prepared to make even greater hope than this means. But even here, it is actually technically neutral in terms of technology. Other types of energy could have the same reduction if they do the same. It is aimed at offshore wind, and it makes it difficult to see that there will be other types of energy, but in the formal sense it is not limited to that. The idea is that it will be useful in the system. We have a strong establishment of land-based wind power in the north, and we need a larger number of users in the south. We want to try to remedy this imbalance, and this is part of it.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1067	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased with Anders Ygeman's awakening to the need for balance in the energy system, that wind alone is not enough and that we need so much more electrical energy. I'm glad. We have debated many times whether or not there is a shortage. Some times there is a clear surplus – where Anders Ygeman is right – but in periods it is the opposite. I would say that no form of energy is without conflict. You can watch old films, and there is a Swedish series of Lars Molin about when you expanded the hydroelectric power in the north that shows what enormous problems it was when you subdue large villages so that the whole of Sweden would have a safe energy production. Of course, changing the system and making wind farms or changing it in other ways will also lead to conflicts of interest. Then I would like to ask Anders Ygeman how he will ensure that ownership can be taken into account as much as possible. I get information from people who say that when the state owns land that is a nature reserve, you go past that land and cross other land. I don't know if this is true or not. But I wonder if this is by trying as far as possible to avoid conflicts. Then I wonder how Anders Ygeman views the municipal veto. Does the Minister also want the right to veto the municipalities? Some parties wish to do so, and I therefore put a straight question to Minister Ygeman about how he views that question.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1072	Madam President, I would like For the record, I would first of all like to say that the period that we have surpluses of electricity in Sweden is referred to as a year or so. We've got surplus. There was a time ten years ago when the Moderates ruled Sweden when we had a shortage of electricity during the year and imported a lot of electricity. Fortunately, we have left that period behind and now have large surpluses of electricity. If you call this government's bill a wake-up call, it would be fun to hear what you call the eight-year period of a moderate-led government when the permit periods for executives grew longer and longer and longer. Then you asked a question about the municipal veto. It doesn't fall under me, shall be said. But on an overall level, I think these are interesting ideas in the investigation proposal presented by Lise Nordin, which retains the municipal veto but specifies it in time, specifies that one should have motives and opens up the possibility of allowing some of the money generated by the investment to remain in the local community. On a horizontal level, I think these are interesting ideas, but the question of whether the municipal veto falls under another minister. I would like to say this so that I do not go too far in this area. Then there was the question of infringement compensation at the right of way, as I understood it. There we have done – it's probably twelve years ago now – that whoever gets the right of way on his land is compensated at 125 percent of the market price. It is therefore better to sell to those who draw up a pipeline than to sell at the market price. It was a change that I was involved in pushing through together with the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, I want to remember, when I sat on the housing committee which then had the question. Maybe even the Moderates were there. I think the Liberals finally pulled out. Or maybe it was the Center that pulled out-- I won't swear on it, Madam President. But it was at least a large part of the then Alliance that pushed it through. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would also like to remind the Government that we do not use you or you, but speak through the President. )
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1079	Madam President, I would like I am interested in how the Social Democrats view the municipal veto, although I know that Lise Nordin has written a long study on this. There is a fineness in that municipalities can get compensation and that there can be money for the local community. But it may be that individual farmers in the mountains or northern Sweden own land where their municipal councillor will think it's great to set up a wind farm and that, just like in Lars Molin's filmatization of when hydropower came to Sweden, they run over the village's population. At the same time, you get local money for a municipality that many have moved away from and that has a poor municipal finances. There are winners and losers in all systems. But I would like the Minister to respond a little to how to look at it. There will now be huge investment in infrastructure. This is almost a general question, to which Anders Ygeman may not be able to answer himself. But, how do we ensure that this infrastructure is put in place in the best possible way and where it is needed? Society is changing a lot. It is enough for a large computer hall or battery factory to come, and then we have a huge problem with how to master and build on electricity infrastructure. How do we ensure that the infrastructure, for which energy users will still have to pay, comes where it is most needed?
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1084	Madam President, I would like Let me start by crawling to the cross and apologizing for not speaking through the President. One might think that after 20 years in Parliament I should have learned that principle – but not! I explained in an earlier line my view of the municipal veto. I think there were sensible elements to Lise Nordin's reasoning. And I think the municipal veto should be kept. However, it may also be wise to clarify it in terms of time and motivation. The second issue raised by Lotta Olsson concerns how we should ensure that the electricity infrastructure to be added is built in the right place and that the new large users we have can connect where we want them in the network. There are two perspectives that I would like to highlight. The first is that network owners must make it clearer where there is spare capacity, so that those who are about to make an investment can quickly and easily see where there is spare capacity, both in terms of power lines and in terms of power. Then you know that it can be very fast if you invest there. We also need to have more forward-looking planning when building electricity grids. We must simply dare to look a little forward and see where the needs can increase. Maybe that doesn't mean we should just be based on speculation. But we must build electricity grids sooner than we have done so far and be more agile towards the market. I think we need to clarify the mission to the Swedish power grid what it is suffering. It is also something that is being looked at within the framework of the electrification strategy developed by the government. One of the questions is how to do it in a good way. There are also planning goals and other such reasonings.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1090	Madam President, I would like Government of Ygeman! It's easy to come last. I was going to ask three questions, but I have already had answers to them. But it is still interesting, and I thank the Government for giving us this opportunity. I can first say that it feels like the government parties, the Center Party and the Left Party agree on almost everything in terms of energy. At least that is a good start, given the situation we are in today. I do not know whether the Government listened to what I said about the problem of the expansion of very important electricity generation, as wind power is today. It is by far the cheapest and is in the cry. It will be crucial for many establishments in Sweden, especially those in northern Sweden, which have been affected here. Madam President, I would like I want to give the government a picture through the Government. The left has one of the highest tails in wind power. When you say no to offshore wind power in southern Sweden, where wind turbines are visible as a few centimetres a mile out to sea, and when there are permit applications in northern Sweden for land-based wind power that surrounds a village with a kilometer's distance to farms where people live, it becomes difficult to argue when we do not build in the whole country. I have heard the answers from the Government that they are trying to get to this with offshore wind power, connection and things that stimulate. But we still have the defenses and things that prevent us from reaching the speed that we would like. How can we get that picture together, especially with regard to the people of these villages? There has been talk of community resources, that it may need to be regulated and such things as were in Lise Nordin's investigation.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1096	Madam President, I would like I believe that one of the tools could be to make maps and plans at an early stage, so that they say: in these areas we have very good wind resources, and here the environmental, defence or cultural interests are not the same. Here there are good opportunities to move forward. But in some areas we have very strong defence interests or very strong environmental interests. It is less wise to move forward there. If you talk to the defense, they point to how many wind turbines environmental interests have stopped. And if you talk to the environmental movement, they talk about how many wind turbines defence interests have stopped. But if we are to have a substantial expansion of wind power, we sometimes have to let both defence interests and environmental interests stand back when they are not so strong. And sometimes even wind interests have to stand back, when we have very strong environmental or defence interests. It is important to get that balance in place. Nevertheless, we are a fairly large country with quite large resources. It should therefore be possible to find quite large areas where environmental and defence interests do not have to weigh as strongly as energy interests. But I think it is a balance that will always be alive. Hopefully, the connection charges will also help us to get offshore wind more quickly in southern Sweden.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I couldn't agree more. Now that I have the chance, I would like to wish the cabinet, Madam President and the Council a nice summer and ask one last question. There is much talk about the networks, that they are liberalised and that the pricing system has not worked. You know what a discussion this has been. As far as network distribution is concerned, I and the Left Party think it reasonable that our own company, Vattenfall, should be given the task of ensuring that they are most active in expanding where it needs to be expanded, especially regional networks. In the long run, it should serve the country well.
i-a535be405c7e3f3c-1105	Madam President, I would like Let me put it this way: it is not a completely unreasonable thought, but Vattenfall AB and Vattenfall Electricity Distribution are being classified under Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Please have a debate with him on occasion! With these words, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, Birger Lahti and the Committee on Economic Affairs a happy midsummer and a really good summer. There is a risk that we may meet here again before the summer, but I still take the opportunity to wish you a really good summer and thank you for a constructive work so far.
