i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-3	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me how Sweden should be at the forefront of increased climate ambitions at COP 26. He has also asked about the possible use of new and additional funds and about intellectual property rights linked to the negotiations, and he has rightly asked a question about the division of competences between Sweden and the EU for the nationally determined contributions, the NDC, which parties have undertaken to present and implement under the Paris Agreement. All countries need to do more to ensure that climate action is considered to be in line with science. Sweden is no exception. In addition to sharp national emissions targets, we operate through the EU and are driving the EU to adopt even more ambitious climate action for all Member States. In addition, the G20 countries have a special responsibility, given that they account for 80% of the world's emissions. Sweden and the EU both support and push. The climate action plan describes the three elements of Swedish climate diplomacy: policy dialogue, financing and innovative technology. Sweden focuses on the possibilities of climate change and on what we from the Swedish side can offer to facilitate the transition in other countries. I share Jens Holm's view that climate finance is an important issue at COP 26. Therefore, the government is now increasing Swedish climate aid by 1 billion 2022, and we also have a high level of climate finance going towards adaptation measures, which is something the recipient countries are asking for. The Government has also announced its intention to double climate aid by 2025. In reporting Sweden's climate finance to both the EU and the UN, the government has emphasised that our aid is greater than the UN's target of 0.7 per cent, with which our climate finance can be considered as new and additional funds. At the same time, it is the Government's ambition that the climate perspective should permeate all aid. We do not currently have access to this data for the European Union as a whole. In the global context, Sweden is often highlighted by recipient countries as a positive example of how donor countries should act. The government considers technology issues to be central to achieving the objectives set by the Paris Agreement and actively pursues work in this area. In connection with the UN Secretary-General's summit in September 2019, Sweden launched a leadership group for industrial transformation, Lead it, together with India. To achieve the desired industrial transition, the leadership group is an important international arena. The climate negotiations at COP 24 in Katowice adopted a technology framework to guide the technology mechanism under the Paris Agreement. In particular, the Technological Framework will strengthen innovation, implementation, improved instruments, capacity development, cooperation with other actors and support. In addition, the mobilisation of private finance is a prerequisite for strengthening work on technology development and technology transfer. Intellectual property, IPR, is an important incentive for research and development. IPR also means that inventions, precisely because they can be protected, can be more easily published and shared rather than kept secret. IPR is therefore not an obstacle to technology transfer but, on the contrary, is one of several necessary prerequisites for technology development, technology transfer and dissemination. The IPR issue should also not be negotiated under UNFCCC C but dealt with within the existing international IPR framework. Jens Holm has finally asked me whether I intend to work for Sweden to present its own NDC to COP 26. The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international agreement and covers issues relating to the competences of both the European Union and the Member States. It is a so-called mixed agreement and is therefore to be ratified by both the EU and its Member States. The Paris Agreement contains provisions allowing joint responsibility for the commitment of the NDC. Therefore, in the conclusions of the Environment Council of 18 September 2015, the EU Member States chose to express their intention to act jointly within the framework of the Paris Agreement, as confirmed by the Council Decision approving the Paris Agreement on 5 October 2016. It strengthens the EU's position as a common Union, as we can demonstrate a relatively high climate ambition. Under the EU Treaties, Member States also have an obligation to act in coherence and loyalty with the Union in foreign policy. The EU's updated Joint NDC, presented in December 2020, was a tightening up and an updated and increased target for a reduction of at least 55% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. Although Sweden wanted to see even higher targets, I am proud that the EU is seen in the negotiations as one of the most ambitious parties. In the light of all this, I will not work for Sweden to present its own NDC. There is also a risk that a Swedish NDC would be followed by its own NDCs from less ambitious EU countries, which could damage the Union's confidence in climate negotiations.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-13	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. The COP 26 climate summit starts on Sunday and will last two weeks in Glasgow. One can safely say that the whole world will follow what is happening there. Some believe that this is the last summit we have in order to take the necessary decisions to ensure that we meet the Paris Agreement's objective that the temperature increase should not exceed 1.5 degrees. All parties have been invited to bring in new, updated climate contributions to the summit, and all of these can be compared. Yesterday, I think it was, China came in with its climate contribution. It was not enough at all, but I nevertheless welcome the fact that they did come up with one. As the Minister for Climate Change says, the EU submitted its joint contribution to climate change last December. When you go through all the climate subsidies that exist, you can see that if they are met, the world is moving towards a temperature rise of 2.7 degrees, that is, a directly dangerous and completely uncontrolled climate change. We can't let this happen. Unfortunately, Sweden and the EU also belong to the groups that have submitted a completely inadequate climate contribution to Glasgow. This is noted, for example, in the compilations made by the Climate Action Tracker. There it is only one country that really fulfils the Paris Agreement, and that is Gambia. The EU and Sweden are classified as insufficient. That is why we simply need to do more. I do not understand why Sweden could not have its own climate contribution, which complements and goes beyond the EU's climate contribution and a little takes on board what Per Bolund has said today and says in many other contexts, namely that Sweden should be a leader in the international climate negotiations. Now Sweden becomes more an echo of Brussels. We say the same thing as the other EU countries do, and unfortunately it is completely inadequate. We allow those with the lowest ambitions to dictate the agenda in Europe. I don't think that's okay, and we could have done so much more. As far as climate aid is concerned, I think it would be good if Per Bolund clarified exactly how much Sweden contributes to the negotiations. Mr Bolund says that the European Union has no figure; yesterday I saw that the European Union had agreed on the figure of EUR 23 billion. However, it seems that a large part of that money comes from regular aid. I would like to ask Per Bolund: Does Per Bolund think that the EU's climate finance is new and additional, that is, money that is not taken from regular aid? I also think that the issue of technology transfer is very important. It is also a bit of a matter of trust, just like the issue of financing, because developing countries feel that the latest technology is in the hands of the industrialised states and not in them. A reform of the patent and intellectual property acquis could facilitate the transfer of the latest technologies, just as we have done with life-saving medicines. That's where we loosened the patents. Why can't we do this? This is also about saving lives.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-21	Mr President, I would like to That is absolutely the case – I am the first to say – that Sweden also needs to do more. It is very clear that every country in the world needs to do more. Gambia may not be highlighted as a country that has achieved its climate commitments through major investments or major investments. Unfortunately, it is more about over-poverty. I don't think that's going to be used as a beacon for the world. Here I rather want Sweden to show that we can go another way, be the world's first fossil-free welfare country and show that it is possible to combine low climate impact – zero climate impact in 24 years is Sweden's goal – with also strong economic development. What I tell you about when I meet my colleagues around the world, and which I am also pleased that international delegations are now looking to Sweden to see, is precisely the development that Sweden is in where we make investments of hundreds of billions in clean renewable energy, in industries that break a thousand-year technology tradition of producing steel with coal and in factories that produce batteries for new electric cars. Electric car sales in Sweden are highest throughout the EU. But than every other car is now rechargeable. This – I am convinced – is the story that also makes other countries want to do more and follow in Sweden's footsteps. It is not that Sweden does not have a strong voice in international climate negotiations or, as Jens Holm seems to think, that it depends entirely on whether we present a national commitment to the NDC. Our strong conviction is that we have a stronger voice if we work together and can get Europe's 500 million people together to have a strong voice at the summits. That, too, is what we see. We see how, over the years and at all international climate summits, the EU has been a hugely important player in making more happen. When other parts of the world have wavered – for example, the USA was under Donald Trump not a major climate advocate – the EU's voice has always been there to push the world's countries. It has been absolutely crucial. That is why I am absolutely convinced that it is the right strategy to work instead of ensuring that Europe goes as far as possible and continues to be a driving force. Nor is it true, as Jens Holm seems to think, that we are doing nothing. On the contrary, Sweden is a strong player. We have presented a long-term strategy, as many other countries have also done, where we tell about our journey that we are going to make from now to zero emissions. We have our climate law and our climate action plan, which shows how to get all the way to zero. We have also presented our own commitment to finance, where Sweden acts as its own voice. There we have said that we will go from SEK 7.5 billion in climate finance, which is today's figure, to SEK 8.5 billion already next year and until 2025 double the Swedish climate aid to SEK 15 billion. It is a voice that is extremely important. That is what has led us, together with many other countries, to actually deliver on the fact that the world's donor countries will reach $100 billion and can show that we will do so in the run-up to COP 26. It will completely change the dynamics. That is also what is now pushing other countries to raise their ambitions. For example, China now came with e t ege t NDC. I share the view that it is not ambitious enough either, but it nevertheless shows how the dynamics work in the international context. Countries such as Sweden and regions such as the EU are pushing ahead, and then we will also have more to happen together.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-30	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by asking Per Bolund whether he believes that the commitment of the European Union and, therefore, of Sweden to COP 26 is sufficient for us to reach the Paris Agreement. If that is not enough, then we should do something more. Now, however, our commitment is exactly the same as the seven or eight A4 pages that are the EU's commitment. We could have a commitment of our own in which we say: we do not think this is enough. We agree with the UN's mission's Gap Report, which says that we are now moving towards 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, and that is why we are doing this too. We go beyond Europe. Actually, we're not doing that right now. It's going to be static somehow. The EU submitted its commitment a year ago, and nothing can shake it. Per Bolund believes that if we try to go beyond that, perhaps other countries will reduce their ambitions. That is not how I believe climate policy works. If Sweden takes the lead and pushes, it will inspire other countries to do more. The same is true of climate funding, which is an integral part of the climate negotiations, as these often develop into a gap between the rich North and the poor developing countries. When the developed countries cannot even live up to their climate finance commitments, and when, moreover, this is not to be done with money from regular aid, we need to do more. How much, Per Bolund, will the EU contribute to climate finance? Is it the EUR 23 billion mentioned in an EU document yesterday or the day before yesterday? And is that money new and additional? Is the Swedish climate finance new and additional? After all, we have an aid target of 1% of gross national income. If you take the money available in climate finance, we will not reach the BNI target. Therefore, climate funding should be provided with new and additional funds. How does Swedish climate aid not work today – or is Per Bolund of a different opinion? I also think that Sweden plays a direct negative role in the question of technology transfer, at least if we look at it from the perspective of developing countries. They want us to do everything we can to facilitate the transfer of new technologies. We can take renewable energy patents as an example. About 80 percent of these patents are held by rich countries in the industrialized world. This is also the case with patents for the treatment of emissions from passenger cars. Almost all of these patents exist in Japan, North America and Europe. It will then be very difficult for developing countries to use this technology, because you will then have to pay very high royalties and licenses. We had exactly the same discussion when it was about HIV medicines. The international community then decided: we are releasing patents for developing countries so that they can produce their own medicines for their own people. That is what many developing countries want us to do today with climate technology. Allow them to use these licenses freely so that they can freely spread the latest technology in their countries to change faster! Isn't that a good idea, Per Bolund?
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-38	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by really underlining how important and crucial climate funding is for us to achieve the goal of raising ambitions and reducing emissions faster than we have done so far. It's something I've met at every climate summit I've been to, at every negotiation and at every bilateral meeting I've had with my colleagues around the world. What I am pleased about is that everyone has also emphasised how important Sweden has been in this work, how important Sweden's voice has been and how important it is that we go ahead and show the way. Jens Holm asks me how we finance increased climate finance. We are doing this simply by increasing aid. We are already well over 1%, despite the fact that we have a target of 1% of GDP. It also means that as our economy grows, we get more resources that we can spend on climate aid and funding. That is the money we use to now be able to go from 7 1⁄2 billion a year to 15 billion a year. This means that we are going from being already one of the world's largest contributors per capita to being by far the largest. It is a voice that we also take with us in the European circle. Sweden is not silent when we sit and discuss climate finance at EU level. We are a voice saying that we want the countries of the European Union to raise their ambitions. We want the EU countries also to devote more to general aid, but also to climate aid. Sweden's voice is extremely clear, and that is something that I am proud of. Of course, we should always challenge ourselves and do more, but you also don't have to black out Sweden and Sweden's important role in this context. They do not listen, either to the developing countries or to the international institutions which, on the contrary, tell us how important Sweden has been in this context. Sometimes you have to allow yourself a small measure of pride to gain energy in order to be able to continue working. There I hope that Jens Holm and I can still agree. While we are talking about pride, I want to say that I think we seem to agree that we think that Sweden should do more. It is very good that we can then work together and hopefully convince the rest of the Riksdag that we will increase our ambitions. But there too, I believe, we must be able to allow ourselves to feel a certain amount of pride. When the overall environmental organisations in the world rank the world's countries in terms of climate change, it is precisely Sweden that is the highest. In the Climate Change Performance Index, the first three places are empty, because no country is doing enough. I am really willing to emphasise that Sweden is not doing enough either, but it is Sweden that comes the highest of all the countries in the world. When you balance together the carbon dioxide emissions that we have, our climate policy, our energy strategy and 400 environmental and climate experts in the world rank the world's countries, it is Sweden that comes out the best. Surely it is a source of pride that should encourage us to do even more in the future. I think that is the best way: to feel that we are on a good track but must speed up and do much more in the future. When it comes to technology transfer that Jens Holm highlights, Sweden is also a strong player in making technology available to the whole world. It is not a contradiction to have an international patent system and, at the same time, to act decisively to ensure that the best technology can also be used worldwide. On the contrary, that is exactly what Sweden is doing through international cooperation with developing countries and through energy efforts where we make the best possible energy technology available so that it can be used on a large scale in poorer parts of the world. That is exactly what Sweden is doing. There too, Sweden is often cited as an example, and I am proud of that.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-49	Mr President, I would like to As far as technology transfer is concerned, it can take place in many ways. We are having a discussion right now about how best to spread vaccines against covid-19, and we see that around the world there is a movement growing – I see it also from red-green parties as my own, from green parties and a broad popular movement – in order to make patent law more flexible so that developing countries can get free licences in order to be able to roll out the covid vaccine themselves quickly. A country like Vietnam has a large pharmaceutical production and could produce these drugs quickly if only they were given the right to do so without having to pay sky-high prices for licences to patent holders. In the same way, it works with renewable technologies. It could be spread so much more quickly if the rights to use the absolute latest and best technologies to reduce emissions could be freely distributed to developing countries without having to pay sky-high licences and royalties. I do not understand why the Swedish Government is so strongly opposed to discussing patent issues at COP 26. As far as climate finance is concerned, I can give Per Bolund that Sweden is certainly not the worst country in the world, but we are actually a pretty good country in the world. But we in the Left Party believe that we can do even more. We should spend more money on climate finance. We in the Left Party do this in our budget so that it really becomes new and completely additional. I cannot, Per Bolund, feel pride fully until Sweden really is on the green side in a ranking with, for example, Climate Action Tracker and they say that we live up to the Paris agreement with our climate commitment. We don't now. Much more must therefore be done.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-53	Mr President, I would like to At the end of the day, we can absolutely agree. I am the one to say that we are not there yet, but we are far from finished. Actually, I'd like to say that we're just getting started. But we have laid a fantastic base for building the fossil-free welfare country of Sweden. We have the best conditions in the world, and it should also encourage us to speed up and do much more. That is why the Green Party acts in the government and the government in every budget and in every decision that is put on Parliament's table constantly raises climate ambitions step by step until we arrive and are where we need to be, that is, we are a fossil-free welfare country that also fulfills all our commitments under the Paris Agreement. I would like to return to the issue of technology transfer and patent law. It is not that nothing is happening, but that there are negotiations on patent law, and there are ongoing discussions on how we can make technology available to the whole world. That is something I welcome. I think it is a good thing that this discussion is going on and that there is also a discussion about the advantages and disadvantages of today's patent law. But I also believe that we must be able to recognise that there are both advantages and disadvantages and that we need to find the right balance. But it is quite obvious to Sweden, and Sweden is one of the strongest voices internationally, I would say, that we must make the best technology available so that it is not reserved for the rich countries but is available to everyone. Sweden continues to work stubbornly to be an example and a country that shows the world that it is possible, that we can actually become a sustainable country and that we can reconcile it with a good welfare and a strong economy. That's what I hear from my colleagues that the world is now seeing. We're not there yet, but we're working incredibly intensively. So do we internationally. Together with the EU, Sweden is the strongest voice in raising the world's climate ambitions. That is what we are at every climate summit, and I will be a very strong voice with my European friends in Glasgow as well.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-59	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I believe that the state is lacking in its responsibility for formally protected areas and whether I am prepared to take stock of and estimate the total management needs of formally protected areas. Johan Hultberg has also asked me whether I am prepared to take the initiative in setting up a plan to correct the debt of care in relation to protected areas, if I believe that it is reasonable to provide new areas with formal protection without ensuring future management and what initiatives I would otherwise be prepared to take. I would like to emphasise that the protection of valuable natural areas is an important part of fulfilling several of Sweden's environmental objectives. It is reasonable and necessary to protect new areas of valuable nature in parallel with allocating resources to the management of existing nature reserves. Preserving existing values and protecting them from exploitation is more cost-effective than restoring or restoring lost values. The need for care in formally protected areas varies depending on the nature types involved, the size of the area, the degree of impact, visitor pressure and more. Available calculations from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, which together are responsible for the majority of the country's formally protected areas, give a good idea of the need for care. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the current level of funding for measures for valuable nature provides a good basis for the work and that it needs to increase as the number of protected areas increases. In 2019, the grant was almost halved, which had a major impact on the operation by reducing the management of formally protected areas and making important contributions to outdoor life and biodiversity. The Government has prioritised efforts to strengthen biodiversity through efforts to protect valuable nature and manage protected areas, especially nature reserves. The appropriations increased by approximately SEK 1.5 billion for 2021. In the budget proposal for 2022, the Government proposes a three-year investment in the management of nature reserves of SEK 100 million per year during 2022 – 2024. I therefore believe that the government has taken the initiative to strengthen the work on the management of formally protected areas.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-65	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, Mr Per Bolund, for his answer to an urgent interpellation, which I think is important. We have high ambitions in Sweden when it comes to nature conservation, and the state has taken on a great responsibility for nature conservation policy. But with this interpellation, I would like to highlight the fact that the state does not shoulder that responsibility in a very good way. I believe that we have fundamental problems in nature conservation policy for which this government bears a heavy responsibility. There is a double error in nature conservation policy, Mr President. The first is that many forest owners feel that they are almost penalised if they conduct forestry in such a way that high natural values are created. The forest owner who conducts forestry so that high natural values are created often sees his forest taken care of by the state. It'll be a coercive act. They form a nature reserve or other formal protection, often contrary to the interests of the individual landowner. However, the forest owner who has carried out his forestry activities in such a way that high natural values have not been created may continue to carry out his or her forestry activities according to his or her own head. In my view, the reverse incentive structure is problematic in the long term. If the state and Sweden are to be able to meet our environmental objectives, specifically the environmental objective Living forests, we must bring Sweden's forest owners with us. There must then be positive incentives, and landowners who take great responsibility and do more than the law requires should be rewarded and not punished by having their use and ownership restricted. The second error is that once the state takes over responsibility for areas with high natural values, it is unable to manage designated areas in the way the state itself has decided. We see a huge need for care out in the formally protected areas. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considers that the management of protected areas is underdeveloped. As recently as 2018, the Swedish Forest Board made an almost 100% inventory of its protected areas, the forests for which the Swedish Forest Board is responsible and which have formal protection, and stated in it that the management of more than half of the protected forests was neglected. They also stated that in every three areas the needs are acute and therefore pose a threat to the natural values. ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office also drew as one of its overall conclusions in a report from 2018 that the state and Swedish policy have been very focused on area, on targets on how large areas should be protected. In order for the goals to be achieved, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that greater focus needs to be on the quality and function of the areas, that there is a need for increased knowledge of voluntary provisions and not least that increased care measures are needed. That's the last thing my interpellation is about. If confidence in and confidence in state conservation policy is to be maintained, the state must show that it is taking responsibility for the areas for which it has, in fact, often under coercion, assumed responsibility. But the state does not today. I am the first to admit that because there is a shared responsibility between different governments over time. For example, the former alliance government did not allocate sufficient funds for the management of a protected nature. But I am proud that we Moderates in our budget motion are spending a great deal of money on protected nature. A basis for work forward should be what I am calling for in my interpellation: that the state should make a proper inventory of and a proper cost estimate of the need for care and not just pursue new hectares. Is the Minister not prepared to get the facts on the table?
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-72	Mr President, I would like to It's exciting to hear Johan Hultberg. The intensity of the speech and the ambition, as it sounds in the speaker's chair, must be commended. For example, Johan Hultberg said at the beginning: It sounds like a collective, where Johan Hultberg counts both himself and the Moderates and me and the government. I have to put a very big question mark to which we are concerned. When I look at Moderate politics, that's not what I see. Johan Hultberg speaks of a double error. Then it can be questioned why he writes an interpellation that the management of protected areas is too small, while the budget movement that the Moderates received in the Riksdag in 2018 – the budget that they forced through during an ongoing government crisis with a transitional government and that has actually governed Sweden's policy in terms of protection and management of valuable areas – led to an almost halved budget for protection but also management of a valuable nature. If you have a high tone in an interpellation, it is reasonable that you also respond to it in your own policy. But the de facto policy pursued here in the Swedish Parliament points in a completely different direction. I would say that qualifies to be termed double error. It is also somewhat parody that they first halve the budget and then pretend to be indignant that the management of protected areas is not enough. You might think it would have been tasteful to follow up the words with action, to actually deliver on what they pretend to say. Unfortunately, it is not what we see from either Johan Hultberg or the Moderates. I would really like to oppose the description that Johan Hultberg is trying to give of the fact that there is some kind of high-intensity conflict in which the state would confiscate land. If you look at the reality, which could be interesting when you are having an interpellation debate, you can see that in almost every case where the state enters and makes a nature reserve or ensures that there is a management agreement, simply ensuring that valuable nature is preserved, it is done in a common spirit, together with the landowners. The landowners are also in many different forms of surveys and in the comments they give very satisfied with the deal and think it has worked well. Moreover, in the vast majority of cases they have received not only market prices but even overcompensation. They get paid more when the land is protected. I think it is a double error of Johan Hultberg to try to paint a picture of some sort of conflict going on where the landowners get hurt. That's not what I'm seeing. That is also not what the official statistics show. Johan Hultberg says that he wants data and statistics to be based on. Then Johan Hultberg will perhaps start by going back to those statistics and looking at how the landowners perceive the business done when the state enters and protects valuable nature. It's just a suggestion from me. The bottom line is, the Green Party and the government are doing both things. We are able to protect valuable nature and thereby fulfil the commitments that Sweden has made internationally and that we have in our environmental objectives. We are also able to spend far more money to care for valuable nature than any previous government has. We realise that we must be able to do both. You have to be able to hold two balls in the air. Otherwise, you make a double error. I hope that Johan Hultberg will not continue to commit double errors in the future.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-78	Mr President, I would like to Now it was a rather high tone from the Minister for Environment and Climate Change. I assume that this is an expression of the fact that the Minister is under pressure from the fact that we have serious concerns about the nature conservation policy that he and his government represent. Mr President, I would like to Per Bolund says he thinks you should go out in real life. The reality here in Stockholm's inner city is perhaps different from the reality at home in my constituency of Fyrbodal. I have a lot of contact with landowners there. They do not really express the great consensus and good relationship that Per Bolund expresses here. My point is that it will be a very strange signal to forest owners if they conduct forestry in such a way that high natural values are created, so high that the state goes in and says that the protection of the land is of such a general interest that the state must take over responsibility, but the state then fails in its management of the protected nature once they take over responsibility. For example, it is often the case, Mr President, that it is necessary to go in and make grubbing-up efforts to remove spruce. In southern Sweden there is a serious deterioration of the landscape. In many places it becomes less deciduous forest. But this kind of nature is often worthy of protection and needs to be promoted. Then care is required. I think the current government is taking a run bill here. They hunt new hectares all the time and raise their ambitions for how much nature is to be protected. But it refuses to take responsibility for the nature that is already protected. This, I mean, sends out a very serious signal to Sweden's 330 000 forest owners, which you must bring with you if you are really to reach the goal of Living Forests. Nevertheless, I believe that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, as well as the undersigned, understands that the state cannot reach that goal. We must do this together, with contributions from society but also with all the voluntary contributions from Sweden's forest owners and the great responsibility that they are prepared to take. Then there is an incorrect description made by the Minister for the Environment of Moderate politics. In the future, we propose a substantial increase in funding for care. In the Moderate Budget Movement, which is on Parliament's table at this time, we are allocating more money to the Swedish Forest Board. We have higher funding for protection – no, for management of a valuable nature both next year and the years after. If it is so happy, Mr President, that the Moderates' budget motion goes through, there will be 350 million more spent on management of a valuable nature in 2022, and the grant will be increased by 450 million SEK in 2023 and 2024. We therefore give priority to the management of a valuable nature, because we think it is important for the state to stop taking a spring note and start taking responsibility for the areas where the state has undertaken this. Mr President, I would like to What I am calling for in my interpellation is not only better care, but also better understanding of what it looks like. The Minister claims that there are good calculations, but the truth is that it's pretty loose boliner. As I said, the Swedish Forest Board has made a solid inventory, but it looks very different at the Swedish County Administrative Boards when it comes to how they have followed up nature reserves and other protected areas. I believe that a national inventory is needed, so that Per Bolund and I can have a solid basis for future debates here in Parliament.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-85	Mr President, I would like to It was a very interesting speech Johan Hultberg gave here. I hope all the audience noticed how he stumbled a little on the words. He said the Moderates are increasing the funding for protection. Then he changed his mind to care. It was not a coincidence, I can reveal to all the audience here, but it is because the Moderates in their budget motion completely slaughter the funds to protect valuable nature. You cut them down brutally. This is also what they did in their 2018 budget, which went through in the Riksdag. This also applied to the appropriations for management, which were also slaughtered in the 2018 budget. You wake up a motion in the Swedish parliament and act in a way that allows you to get it through in the Riksdag, even if you do not get a majority. This will be the policy that is actually implemented in Sweden and which involves a substantial reduction in the appropriations for both protection and management of a valuable nature. Can one then stand in the speaker's chair and pretend to be surprised that there is too little money for care? Is it being honest with the audience and the voters? I'd say it's not. Both I and Johan Hultberg know that in the Moderate Budget Movement, which is put on the table of Parliament, there is no more money for the protection and management of a valuable nature, but much less money for the protection and management of a valuable nature. Obviously, Johan Hultberg – even though he pretends that he is and repeats it time and time again – is not interested in public information, for example about the satisfaction of landowners who have made various forms of arrangement with the state for protection of nature, either through the purchase of the land by the state or through voluntary management agreements or similar efforts. There's a lot of satisfaction. If Johan Hultberg says he wants public statistics – try using it, for example in the next interpellation! Perhaps that would raise the level of discussion. That is a proposal on my part. Johan Hultberg says that the state cannot reach the goal of protection of a valuable nature. One should probably assume that Johan Hultberg says so because of his own experiences and his own background. Of course, if Moderate policies were to be implemented, we would not achieve the goal. I'm the first to agree. This is truly true. And that's what's taking a run bill. So it's the Moderates who take the run bill. Here in Parliament it has been agreed that we should have not only 1 but 16 different environmental objectives. These include living animal and plant life and valuable forests that can be found not only for us but also for our children and grandchildren. There the Moderates do as usual. They are happy to subscribe to the ambitious goals and long-term ambitions. But when the job is to be done, one can coldly expect that the Moderates are not there. Then the Moderates back up and take – with Johan Hultberg's own words – a spring note that is then handed over to future generations. Since Johan Hultberg now claims to be interested in public data, we can look at how the budget has developed regarding protection and management of a valuable nature. The care was a bit the theme of Johan Hultberg's interpellation. Protection has increased from SEK 810 million in 2014, when the bourgeois moderate-led government ruled Sweden, to SEK 3.7 billion in 2022. That is about a four-fold doubling of appropriations for protection of a valuable nature. There was a hack in the 2018 curve when the Moderates' budget went through. Then it dived really bad, I can say. But then we have come back and even increased the appropriations compared to what it was like in the past. We can also look at the management – appropriations 1:3 in Category 20. The grant was SEK 638 million in 2014, when the Moderates designed politics. For 2022, it is over SEK 2 billion. It is between three and four times as much as when the Moderates ruled Sweden. In these years, 2015– 2022, the government has spent nearly SEK 10 billion on the management of valuable nature. It's a rise in ambition. The Moderates are proposing a reduction in ambitions. Let there be no doubt about it!
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-93	Mr President, I would like to I think it will be quite clear to everyone following this debate that there are clear ideological differences between me and Per Bolund. We have very different views on forest ownership, forestry and how to achieve high ambitions. Mr President, I would like to I would nevertheless like to say that I believe that I and Per Bolund agree on an ambition that we as a country should protect valuable nature, achieve our environmental objectives and protect biodiversity. But I do not have the initial value, Mr President, that the major problem for nature conservation and the great threat to biodiversity is Sweden's forest owner – quite the contrary. I believe that Sweden's 330 000 forest owners are doing a very important job and are committed to creating high natural values and taking responsibility for using their forests in a sustainable way, so that you can supply timber and other materials that drive the green transition that enables us to achieve our climate goals and reduce our dependence on fossil energy and energy-intensive materials. If we are to achieve the environmental objective Living forests, we cannot stare blindly at acre goals, but we need to create participation and bring Sweden's forest owners with us. The state must first and foremost take responsibility for areas already set aside. Yes, it is true that the Moderates spend less money to protect additional areas. Instead, we give priority to taking responsibility for areas already set aside. Already today, around 25 per cent of Sweden's forests are excluded from forestry. We think it is reasonable to prioritise the management of assigned areas before we create new nature reserves or other. I am amazed that the Minister for the Environment is not prepared to create the basis that I am calling for through a national inventory and a cost estimate of the size of the Swedish maintenance debt.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-96	Mr President, I would like to It is a pity that a person who in post after post claims to want to use public data ends with false mathematics. The 25% referred to by Johan Hultberg is not reserved and protected land, but it is a question of impedions and the like that forest owners cannot use because it is simply not strong enough growth. If you look at genuinely protected land, officially protected land, it is unfortunately still less than 10 percent in Sweden. It is even far from what the former moderate government promised when it went to international summits, such as in Nagoya, Japan. There we were talking about achieving 17%. It was already then of your time. I agree with Johan Hultberg about some of what he said now. I agree that there are great ideological differences between the Moderates and the government parties. One difference is that we do what we promise. You might not think that was an ideological difference, but obviously it is. When we agree on an international commitment or set an environmental goal in the Swedish parliament, we do our best to implement it, unlike the Moderates who do exactly the opposite. As Johan Hultberg himself says here in the speaker's chair, the ambitions for environmental protection and protection of valuable nature are being reduced. There also seems to be a misunderstanding at Johan Hultberg. The Forest Board has grants for area protection. However, they may also be used for measures in protected land. When the Moderates reduce those appropriations, there will be less care and no more care. It is also the case that we make many efforts. As I said in my previous speech, we are making a special effort to manage a valuable nature over the next three years. We are also making efforts for green jobs where people who are now far from the labour market can enter and make efforts to remove invasive species, for example, and renovate nature reserves. We make a special effort on hiking trails to make nature more accessible. Finally, I agree with Johan Hultberg. The major threat to biodiversity is not Sweden's forest owners. The major threat to Sweden's natural values is the Moderates and the blue-brown project.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-102	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that situations where the Migration Agency is said to send individuals to municipalities to apply for financial assistance do not arise, and if so, when. The background is that according to the questioner, the Migration Agency has sent individuals who have been denied asylum to Sigtuna municipality and dropped them at the entrance of the municipality building. According to the questioner, these should be people who are generally unable to manage themselves and who are well on site in the municipality seeking financial assistance. Initially, I would like to respond to the claim that the Migration Agency uses Sigtuna Municipality as a relief platform. As a minister, of course, I cannot go into how individual matters are handled, but to say that the authority routinely drops off people at the entrance of the municipal building is not correct. The starting point is that people who have received a final rejection of their asylum application should return to their country of origin. Return should primarily be voluntary, but otherwise it can be done by coercion. In recent years, the Government has taken many measures to improve the conditions for effective return, including legislative changes that facilitate enforcement work by the authorities and the addition of funds to significantly increase detention places. Furthermore, the Government has commissioned Statskontoret to analyse and propose measures to streamline the return work of the Migration Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Prison Service. The assignment will be presented no later than 14 January next year. As a general rule, persons who have been refused their asylum application and who have chosen not to return within the deadline for voluntary departure are no longer entitled to assistance under the law on the reception of asylum seekers and others, also known as LMA. Although a person is not entitled to assistance under LMA, municipalities are able to provide emergency assistance on a voluntary basis. This is not a right, however, but it is up to each municipality. The Government decided on 16 September this year to set up an investigation into the initial reception of asylum seekers. The investigation will, among other things, clarify how the benefits and actions offered in the framework of assistance under the LMA can be coordinated with actions under the Social Services Act and other regulations. The investigation shall also consider when persons cease to be covered by the LMA. The mandate to review LMA, which also includes evaluating the impact of the 2016 changes in the law, shall be reported by submitting a final report by 16 February 2023.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-110	Mr President, I would like to When Anders Borg was Minister of Finance in Sweden, Sweden was named the best country in Europe. Now that Morgan Johansson is Minister of Justice, Sweden has been appointed Europe's most dangerous country. There's a pretty big difference between those two things. Of course, there is not a single explanation why Sweden is now classified as Europe's most dangerous country under Morgan Johansson's leadership. Nor, of course, can Morgan Johansson be loaded individually for this development. Of course, it is not easy to be Minister of Justice in a government that has a Minister of Finance in terms of Magdalena Andersson who consistently refuses to provide resources to law enforcement authorities and the core tasks of the state, such as order and order in public records, sufficient resources for both the Tax Agency and Statistics Sweden and to keep track and order in Sweden. Then the role of Minister of Justice will be tough. Everyone understands that, and it is quite clear to everyone that Morgan Johansson cannot be blamed for this alone. Mr President, I would like to When, on the other hand, you as the responsible minister either do not see reality or describe it in a consistent way, it will also be difficult to target measures that face the problems that Sweden has. We saw yesterday an example of the Stop shooting project, which the Minister of Justice thought had had nearly 100 defectors but which in Expressen proved to have 6, according to the review they had made. There's a big difference between nearly 100 and 6, Morgan Johansson. In this discussion, Morgan Johansson firmly says that there is no dumping outside the municipality building in Sigtuna municipality. Many people who live in Sigtuna municipality and look at this debate wonder if Morgan Johansson really thinks it is they, the relatively small number of people who are inhabitants of Sigtuna municipality in relation to the total population of Sweden, who themselves and alone should pay when the state expulsions do not work. It sees people as unreasonable or unjust and very difficult. It is very difficult for the people who live in Sigtuna municipality to take responsibility for expulsions that do not succeed and to take responsibility for financing. Morgan Johansson says they don't have to take it. It is entirely voluntary for the municipality to take responsibility. Okay, but the Migration Agency is booking taxis. According to the information that has occurred in the media and which I understand is also verified by the municipality, there are five to ten cases per year when there are people who have received expulsion decisions, with a taxi from the Migration Agency and left outside the municipal building. Morgan Johansson then says: It is voluntary to take responsibility for those people or not. The council doesn't have to do that. The truth is that it is Morgan Johansson's great failure that is behind this. These are people who would have been expelled. Perhaps in a simple language, Morgan Johansson, we can sort out what the Minister thinks should apply in this case. There's one person. The person is to be expelled. The expulsion cannot be carried out. My own view is that it would be reasonable, of course, that – in so far as a expulsion cannot be carried out, there can of course be good reasons why an expulsion cannot be carried out – the state, which is responsible for refugee policy, also takes responsibility for the person being kept and cared for in such a way that is reasonable until the expulsion can be carried out. I nte that you put the person in a taxi to the nearest municipal building and then say: It is a voluntary responsibility for the municipality. Either the person stays out there, or you take responsibility. I do not think it is decent for Sweden to do so.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-118	Mr President, I would like to I wondered for a moment about Niklas Wykman's speech when he would get into the very issue of the interpellation we are talking about here. But after a few minutes of talking about other things, he finally got into it. I'm sure I'll be able to comment on that later. Let's start by looking at the issue here. It is in some way symptomatic of a moderate party that is completely going away in the right-wing populist mourning that you do not even shy away from building your interpellations on pure tales and legends of walking, for that is what we are talking about here. No, the Migration Agency has not paid any taxi fares from the holding in Märsta to the municipality, as has been claimed. It hasn't happened. No, the Finnish Immigration Service does not systematically send people to municipalities to apply for social assistance. It's a story. That's the rat in the pizza. It is a legend that you would like to try to pass on. There is, however, a moderate politician in Sigtuna called Mattias Askerson – Niklas Wykman probably knows him – who has claimed this and who has written letters to the Migration Board about it. The Migration Board then invited the County Administrative Board to a meeting with this Mattias Askerson to ask him what in the world he meant. Does Niklas Wykman know what happened then? Then Mattias Askerson ran and hid. He doesn't want to be in any meeting. He would not face to face defend what he had claimed. I think this is all about what this is – it is a boast that Wykman is now following up in the parliament itself in a particular interpellation. It is not true that the Migration Agency uses some municipalities as some kind of unloading sites. However, Sigtuna Municipality does, and that is something that I would like Niklas Wykman to comment on. Sigtuna municipality is one of the municipalities that systematically dump their new arrivals in other municipalities. In fact, I brought along a whole series of articles with examples of this very thing. Kramfors is one of those municipalities where Sigtuna dumps her new arrivals, and I read: The municipalities are suspected of deliberately arranging to move to other municipalities in order to shift costs and responsibilities. ..................................................... This is how Sigtuna municipality acts and also Solna municipality, which, as I understand it, is Niklas Wykman's municipality of residence. These aren't the only ones. There are many other examples. We have Staffanstorp, another moderate municipality that is happy to arrange housing in Malmö for the new arrivals. The municipality has also made itself known for placing new arrivals in caravans, and as soon as the two-year limit expires, everything is done to shift responsibility to other municipalities. Stockholm has a fondness for placing its new arrivals in Filipstad, Värmland, among other places. Filipstad's councillor says you get two or three new cases a week. My call to Niklas Wykman is to try to do something about how moderate politicians act in these municipalities, instead of standing here and bragging about the Migration Board. The purpose of the residence law that we introduced in 2016 was for municipalities to take long-term and joint responsibility for the new arrivals so that not all of them would end up basically in the same municipalities. You'd share the responsibility. This is now being undermined by these moderate municipalities. Grab your own mothering mates, Niklas Wykman, and make sure that they comply with the legislation instead of standing here and passing on hiking legends and attacking the Migration Board!
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-129	Mr President, I would like to Everyone who listens to this, I myself included, is, of course, struck by one thing: when the responsible person for something, in this case Morgan Johansson, does not want to talk about the issue itself but wants to shift the focus to a completely different issue, yes, then it is a recognition of fault and guilt. Everyone understands that. To a certain extent, although that may not be Morgan Johansson's point, I would still like to thank him for that. Had Morgan Johansson had pure flour in this bag, he would not have tried to shift the debate to something else. Mr President, I would like to There will be something surreal when Morgan Johansson claims that this has not happened. Sigtuna municipality says that there are five to ten such cases per year. Morgan Johansson says there is no such case. Someone must be wrong about that reality statement. Either Morgan Johansson is right that there are nearly a hundred drop-outs due to the Stop shooting program or Expressen's review is right that there are six drop-outs. As in this case, it is either as Sigtuna municipality says, i.e. five to ten cases a year, or as Morgan Johansson says, namely that there are no such cases. Mr President, I would like to If you do not have a clear picture of reality, you cannot solve the problems that exist either. I think it is this Twitter picture of reality that has contributed to the fact that Swedish problems have remained unresolved and also because Morgan Johansson as Minister of Justice has been appointed Sweden as Europe's most dangerous country. This, Mr President, is not a good development. It remains to be seen whether we have the opportunity to evaluate Morgan Johansson's responsibilities over two full terms of office. It's supposed to be a government transformation before then. But if so, the question is: Wouldn't it be better to see reality as it is? Is Morgan Johansson deeply convinced that Sigtuna Municipality is lying? Sigtuna municipality reports that there are five to ten cases of this kind every year. Morgan Johansson says that there are no such cases. What is true and what is false? Is there any small rhetorical detail in what Morgan Johansson says that makes what he says still true, although reality is another? That could be the case. If we are going to deal with reality, have there been cases where the Migration Agency has ordered taxis for people with expulsion decisions to the entrance of the municipality building in Sigtuna? Has there been such a case? Perhaps we should start with this very simple and trivial question. Based on this, you can then of course ask yourself other types of questions, for example if it is reasonable for an individual municipality to take financing responsibility for persons at risk of expulsion. Or would it have been better for Morgan Johansson during his seven years in a position of responsibility to have a system in place where the state takes this responsibility in a workable way? Now, Mr President, Morgan Johansson is talking about setting up an investigation, reviewing systems and so on. But as Morgan Johansson himself wrote when he was in opposition: When you have been in power for six seven years, you can't blame anyone else. Then it's your own responsibility how things are. Now it's Morgan Johansson's responsibility. After all, my question is: Has it been that the Migration Agency has ordered taxis and sent people to Sigtuna Municipality House? That's a yes or no question.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-137	Mr President, I would like to This is what's happening with Niklas Wykman's lines. When he has nothing to stick to in the speaker's chair, the threads go in different directions. There's a lot of questions here now. It is about violence, it is about defection, it is about Sigtuna municipality, it is about who can be expelled or not and it is about taxi travel. I can't take it all, but let me start with the defection. Niklas Wykman now claims for the second time that I have said that there are 100 defections in Malmö. No, I have said that there are 80 defections in Malmö. What is the source of this? Well, that is the report that four government agencies submitted to the government in February of this year. It says that in Malmö 80 defections were handled last year, which by the way is a very high figure. In Stockholm, 30 defections were handled. My source is therefore a report submitted by four government agencies that have just looked at the problem of defection. That is the source I intend to provide, because I assume that the municipalities themselves have submitted the figures. What I reacted to in that part was precisely that they had so many defections from gang crime in Malmö, in my opinion because they have put a very hard pressure on the criminals in Malmö through the Stop shooting program. In Stockholm, however, there was a relatively low drop-out rate, not least in view of the fact that the criminal environment is much larger in Stockholm than it is in Malmö. This can also be related to, which is the reasoning I have put forward, that the number of shootings in Malmö has decreased by two thirds in the last three years, while they are at a very high level in Stockholm. So there are 80 withdrawals in the report that has been submitted to the government. This is the number that exists: 80 defections in Malmö, 30 in Stockholm. Then hopefully we have sorted out that question. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, there is no point in that sentence. It is not that the Migration Agency in any way systematically uses any municipality as some kind of unloading site. Actually, it doesn't exist. When a Moderate politician attacks the Migration Board in this way by writing letters saying that this is how you and the Migration Board and the County Administrative Board invite the responsible politician to ask what exactly he means, then he does not want to meet. I think that is very telling about what this is about: it is essentially a political game from some Moderate politicians who are trying to put such a picture. We're not going to that one. I asked Niklas Wykman a question which he has not commented on at all, namely that it is perhaps the case that it is some municipalities, especially moderate municipalities, that make other municipalities unloading places by arranging housing for their new arrivals in other municipalities because they do not want them in their own municipality. How does Niklas Wykman view this? I lined up a number of municipalities. Sigtuna is such a municipality. Solna – Niklas Wykman's own municipality – is such a municipality. Stockholm is such a municipality. Staffanstorp has made itself known to place his new arrivals in caravans, so that you can get rid of them as soon as possible; please drive them to Malmö. It is the old classic moderate policy, namely not to have poor people in the municipality but instead to separate society by driving out the people you do not want to take responsibility for. It was never the purpose of the residence law, but the purpose was to take long-term responsibility. The Finnish Immigration Service does not do this in a systematic way. No, there's no such thing. But answer the question, Niklas Wykman, about how your municipalities act against other municipalities.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-146	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I thank Morgan Johansson for the answer: No, there are no such trips, and there is no provision for the Migration Agency to order taxis for people to be expelled and send them to the municipal building in Sigtuna. It is good that Morgan Johansson has given her clear picture of reality. In reality, Sigtuna Municipality believes that there are five to ten such cases each year, and now we have to investigate who is right. Is Morgan Johansson right that there are no such cases, or is Sigtuna municipality right that there are five to ten such cases every year? It is serious if the Minister is wrong, but it remains to be seen. The Moderates have had to take a great responsibility when it comes to Sigtuna municipality. Morgan Johansson knows that. He has probably seen Mission Review, where it emerges how Morgan Johansson's party was involved in huge business that led to the Social Democrats resigning and giving up power. It will probably be a while before they come back – to put it mildly – after how they have managed the municipality. Now that it is in order instead it becomes difficult for the government to use Sigtuna municipality as a unloading site for its own problems. Morgan Johansson has been responsible minister for a long time and passed a law that says that the municipality should take responsibility for two years. So do the municipalities, and then Morgan Johansson gets angry. Well! If Morgan Johansson had thought that the municipality would take responsibility for three, four, five or six years, Morgan Johansson would have been free to make that law, but Morgan Johansson has not. Then he is angry with the municipalities that, when it has been two years, do not prolong and give priority in housing queues. Instead, people are allowed to turn to where there are vacant dwellings. But Morgan Johansson is free to choose a different number of years from the ones Morgan Johansson has chosen. But Morgan Johansson is very angry with his own politics, and I understand that. Morgan Johansson is Minister of Justice, and Sweden is appointed Europe's most dangerous country. It's time to take responsibility.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-152	Mr President, I would like to I have said that the Migration Agency does not use the municipalities in a systematic way to make them dump places for people who are actually to be expelled. But it is true that all people in Sweden, including those who have an expulsion decision, have the right to apply for social assistance, that is, financial assistance. This also applies in these cases. However, if you have an expulsion decision, it is up to the municipality to assess whether or not emergency assistance should be provided. It is possible that Sigtuna Municipality has had a number of individuals who have applied for financial assistance – and then they will have to deal with these matters, but that is another matter. Niklas Wykman and his party friends claim that the Migration Board systematically sends these people to the municipality for financial assistance. No, there is no systematic way. Then you might find an individual example, but I can't answer that. But it will have to be sorted out. If this Mattias Askerson can show up at a meeting with the County Administrative Board and the Migration Agency so that he can answer what he means by the accusations, then they can be sorted out between the Migration Agency and the municipality. It is symptomatic that when you get a call to answer the question of what you really mean, then you don't want to attend the meeting, and then you go and hide. It will have to be clarified between the municipality and the authority. Such things are so typical in this matter; now the law only applies for two years, and after the two years have passed, the Moderate Communes no longer want to take responsibility. It's just so typical. The very purpose of the law was to take long-term responsibility for those who come to the municipalities. Once again, it is revealed how moderates act in these situations. Then they just want to get rid of these people as soon as possible, for which they would actually have taken responsibility. It's revealing.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-157	Mr President, I would like to Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether I have knowledge of how many companies have received lay-off aid and which today do not respect the right to re-employment and how I and the government intend to work to ensure that the companies that have received lay-off support respect the right to re-employment so that workers can return to their services. Furthermore, Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me how I intend to work to prevent companies from creating new business structures in order to bring in employees from other countries with lower wages and conditions of employment and to replace employees with staff consultants. Finally, she has asked me whether the state as the largest owner of SAS will provide clear directives on employees' rights. Ali Esbati has asked me what measures I intend to take to monitor the use of lay-off aid and guarantees enjoyed by SAS and whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that State-owned SAS does not pursue a personnel policy that undermines the Swedish collective agreement model. Mr President, I would like to Given that many companies have been severely affected financially as a result of the pandemic, the government has taken a number of measures. The support aims to mitigate the impact on jobs and businesses during the pandemic and to ensure that viable companies are in a position to change once the crisis is over. Monitoring and evaluating the measures is important to see how they have affected the business environment to cope with the pressures of the pandemic and to learn lessons for similar situations in the future. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analyses, Growth Analysis, to begin a structured follow-up and evaluation of these supported the overall impact on companies. The government has also set up a committee to review the support in short-term work to learn lessons about how the support has worked during the pandemic and to examine how the regulatory framework may be affected for the future (Dir. 2021:79). Mr President, I would like to SAS is a listed company, and Jag assumes that SAS complies with the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates. If a company fails to comply with the acquis, it is a matter for the supervisory authorities in the field or for the judiciary. As regards the specific aid received by SAS and the requirements associated with the aid, the requirements are followed up in the framework of the ongoing dialogue with SAS. SAS and other companies with State ownership are subject to the same laws as privately owned companies, such as the Companies Act(2005:551). The Swedish Companies Act provides for a division of responsibilities between owners, board members and management. The company's board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs, as well as the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations. The company's staffing and management of employees are operational questions for SAS's management and board of directors to handle and are not ownership concerns. When it comes to issues of pay and general working conditions, it is something that needs to be resolved in negotiations between the workers' trade unions and the employer. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, the state has an ownership policy that describes the state's expectations and requirements for the companies the state owns. The State's ownership policy states that state-owned companies must act in an exemplary manner and act in a manner that ensures that they enjoy public confidence. SAS, as you know, is not a state-owned company, but the state's ownership policy obviously reflects the expectations the government has also for SAS.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-166	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says that the support aims to mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship during the pandemic and to ensure that viable companies are in a position to change once the crisis is over. It is, in my opinion, a bit contradictory when we see the consequences for SAS employees today. SAS employees made significant sacrifices in view of the company's difficult situation. The union did everything in its power to support the company and keep the company afloat. Over the past two years, 90 percent of all employees have been laid off, and many SAS employees have had to leave the company due to the pandemic. When people were fired, they said from the company's side: Keep the uniform! As soon as we get this company back on its feet, you'll be back on duty. Today, many people know that they will not be reinstated if they do not meet completely different requirements or are willing to be hired via another company under completely different conditions. SAS has simply fired to hire through SAS Ireland – or SAS Connect, as it is now called – or through temporary agencies. This isn't even an economic issue, we've been told by the unions. So it is not even the case that the company can point out that it is economically sustainable to do so. Not that I think that would be a reason, but if we are now to speak in the terms that I perceive the Minister to be following, it is not even defensible in that way. Instead, it is about weakening workers' rights and simply circumventing the Swedish model. I am disappointed by the Minister's cold hand in his reply. Yesterday we took part in the SAS employee demonstration outside. They and their comrades are worth a better answer and a greater commitment to this. The Minister points out that there is a division between owner, board and management. But I suppose the state as the largest owner has continuous talks with the management. In addition, there is something called ownership power, that is, one can use one's ownership to press for management to respect or introduce certain measures. Or does the Minister really think that the government thinks it is perfectly okay to be the owner of companies that act anti-union, oppose collective agreements and contribute to social dumping?
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-172	Mr President, I would like to That was, unfortunately, a weak and inconclusive response that the Minister for Economic Affairs delivered here. I am frankly concerned and a little sad when the Minister for Economic Affairs chooses not to reflect on or even feel at the dramatic anti-union offensive that the SAS leadership is now conducting. And not only that there are no indications whatsoever that action on the part of the government could be considered; the answer does not even contain any reasoning on the problems of a company with significant state ownership taking the lead in undermining the Swedish or Nordic labour market model. I think it will be a little bit more depressing to see this intense refusal to analyse and act from a Social Democratic minister, who certainly in other contexts gives formal speeches to the Swedish model and talks about the importance of safeguarding collective wages and working conditions. As the Minister's reply did not show what the matter is really about, I have to say something succinctly about it. During the pandemic, SAS, like other airlines, has been hit very hard, and this has obviously had an impact on the workforce. A large proportion of the employed pilots and cabin crew have been dismissed. However, as the need for staff increases again, SAS acts aggressively to circumvent the re-employment law, which is absolutely central to labour law. This is done through a number of arrangements that were already underway before the pandemic but are now taking the opportunity to push ahead and beyond. By using different company structures, which are all controlled by SAS, management has, a little simplified, set up their own temporary agencies to hire staff for their own flights. For the many redundant SAS employees, this means that they will have to apply for their own jobs again but now with the risk of losing paid wages and benefits. So we are talking about a company in which the state has large stakes and which, during the pandemic, the state, the taxpayer, has raised large additional amounts precisely so that it can manage and act as a stable, modern airline. I do not think that I am alone in thinking that it is remarkable that these funds are now going towards restructuring based on conditional dumping and anti-union power shift. The chairman of the Swedish Pilot Association recently mentioned the SAS management's invention which is legally questionable and morally indefensible. In Norway, I note that trade unions believe that the treatment is unprecedented in Scandinavian working life. This is not reflected in the Minister for Economic Affairs' answer. Nothing. So I may have to formulate the question even more clearly. Are we to understand that the government sees it as a company that receives government support and other support and then uses atypical forms of employment, wholly owned staffing companies to go around laws and agreements and generally anti-trade union practices has nevertheless strived to be exemplary and to act in a way that gives them public confidence? If so, it is another remarkable position that this government occupies.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-179	Mr President, I would like to This debate tends to be a little good day ax-shaft. We have two left-wing parties here who have put interpellations to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who has the issue of ownership on his table. It is clear that there are relevant issues here, but when we come to debate the discussion does not really seem to be about ownership control and ownership. When we look at flights, we see that the low-cost airlines have entered the aviation market for quite a long time, not only in Sweden but all over Europe. Of course it is a problem, because it has led to price dumping. Consumers think it's a good thing. But price dumping means that other companies in the aviation industry, regardless of which companies we are talking about, are having problems coping with competition. As a social democrat, I am anxious that we protect the Swedish model and never accept that competition means conditionality and wage dumping. It must not go beyond the terms of the employees. The question of principle, since we have a limited liability company law here that we cannot really get to, should perhaps be whether the state should own companies. The second question is whether we want to do something about this. If we are to do something about it, we must act on the international stage, because this is not just happening in Sweden. It's happening all over Europe. It's happening all over the world. It is therefore an issue that we should raise both at European and international level in the cooperation that we have within the ICAO, which is the international body dealing with aviation issues. You get even more distressed when you get to the home political debate on aviation. There we Social Democrats are always clear that all modes of transport are needed. We need to invest in Arlanda in order to maintain a good Swedish flight. This is against the Left Party. The Left Party is pursuing a policy that means that it does not want to see any flight at all. It is clear that we need to have good and environmentally friendly modes of transport, but aviation is also needed. Then we must also give aviation the opportunity to conduct a good business in Sweden. That question is left out entirely. When we talk about the international regulatory framework and about how to strengthen workers' rights, not least this government has, throughout the last two terms of office, driven very actively and clearly at EU level, for example, issues relating to road transport, where we are now also getting results and implementing rules that will enable us to overcome the unhealthy competition that exists in transport and on the road. Similarly, we should be able to act together in order to achieve success in aviation as well. This is a problem with all transport – even in shipping, there is always fair competition as different national rules prevail. International rules are needed here, because it is totally unacceptable for us to see the threat to the Swedish model, where price and wage dumping are the consequence. But it cannot be corporate governance that is the fundamental problem here, but it is a question of completely different problems, which we really need to take seriously. I really mean this. I hope that we can reach out with one hand and dare to invest in aviation and also in employees' rights.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-187	Mr President, I would like to There have been a number of questions, but let me start at a different end, the one Teres Lindberg talked about. Mr President, I would like to The last time I was here discussing aviation in an interpellation debate, it was also with a left-wing party, which was then very critical that the state had gone in with support for the flight during the pandemic. The truth is, Mr President, that we did not exactly do it with any joy or enthusiasm, but we did it for a very simple reason: if we had not done it last year, there would have been no SAS left. Then no one at SAS would have had a job today. I believe, Mr President, that everyone is still seeing and noticing that the situation in aviation is very difficult. Yes, it's a little better than last year, but the truth is that when I looked at the latest passenger numbers, I saw that they were about half of what they were in the corresponding period of 2019, i.e. before the pandemic. That's what it looks like. In addition, if you recall what Teres Lindberg and the interpellants themselves were partly aware of – that the industry and SAS have been under pressure for a long time – it is clear that it is anything but an ideal situation. I have received a number of questions about how we view the Swedish model. I'm not just fully behind it-- I've been working on it myself. I even worked for the trade union that organizes those who work on airlines. I have seen this development for a number of years. As Teres Lindberg says, there is to some extent a bit of the wild West within the European Union, where the very conditions of employees have been used to compete. It is clear that consumers have noticed this in terms of lower prices and other things, but it also has a price. The Swedish state owns – involuntaryly, I will say – 20%. We were significantly lower, but we had to go in with resources so that SAS would not be completely knocked out, something against which the Left Party was not so long ago critical. This has meant that we, like the Danish State, own 20%. But it's still a listed company. We are, whether it's SAS or any other Swedish company where the state has an ownership, very clear that we expect you to follow the Swedish model. What does the Swedish model mean? Well, when you need to make changes — layoffs or changes in organization or other — you have to negotiate with the unions. We are making this demand on SAS, as well as on all other companies. In addition, during my time as Minister of Economic Affairs, I have helped to change the state ownership policy so that today, when state companies, for example, procure subcontractors, we also make demands of collective agreements and fair terms. It is, of course, precisely in order for us to contribute to this. The answer to the question from both Ali Esbati and Lorena Delgado Varas is that of course we fully support the Swedish model. It means that, when making such changes, you have to negotiate with the unions with which you have collective agreements. My picture is that they do and will do the same. Then, Mr President, many of the questions were also about pandemic aid. Of course we follow up on these. Should it turn out that any company, whatever it happens to be, does not comply with the rules governing such aid, there is, of course, the possibility of withdrawing the aid. This is something that the Swedish Agency for Growth is actively working on.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-198	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting with an interpellant who does not interpel the Minister but wants to run opposition against the Left Party. I think that Sweden will lead the way in many issues, regardless of the international context. The government has given the aviation sector almost SEK 16 billion. SAS has received 400 million in lay-off aid. That's a lot of capital. In one of the amending budgets submitted, the Government proposed the acquisition of shares or other shares in order to recapitalise SAS by several billions and, within this framework, to increase the State's voting and holding stake in SAS. At that time, the Left Party demanded that demands be made on SAS regarding the modernisation and further development of the climate area, in order to cope with the transition but also to secure jobs. There must also be a future thought; we must look at how we manage jobs and climates. Unfortunately, we did not hear about this. Another requirement made by the Left Party was that companies should be required to make a profit after receiving state aid. But the government chose not to make any demands. It was chosen to do this to keep the company afloat. But even with this we are not succeeding now, because in my view it should include keeping as many jobs as possible. Instead, the money has gone to buy eleven new Airbus and restructure the company so that you can get rid of Swedish staff. Is this the sustainable business that the government is talking about? Has the government been informed about this, given that the state is the largest shareholder? The second thing I would like to know is: if we have been so generous with the contributions to SAS, how generous have the other owners been? Or is it only the Swedish people who have to bear the costs and consequences?
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-204	Mr President, I would like to I note at the outset that the intensive shoulder twitching approach to the actual problems does not only apply to the government but also to the Socialist parliamentary group in general; it is good to know. This is an important economic policy issue for a number of reasons. It is very much about how an entire industry develops in Sweden. SAS puts a ton of its history and size into effect. Management has also gone out in this turn and said that it is absolutely necessary to do these things in order for the company to be competitive in an international market. But how often and to what extent should this recurring argument be accepted? The question is, of course, on what basis and at what price this competition should take place, and not least who should pay that price. SAS is not a salary leader internationally in the aviation industry, even though it operates with a base in countries that have a relatively high salary position internationally. If the idea is that it is purely low-wage competition that SAS management has in mind, the State as owner should have views on this, one might think. Or is the idea of creating flexibility for management by standing outside what is considered good practice in the Scandinavian labour market? These are things that will determine the type of aviation industry we can have in Sweden – whether it will safeguard knowledge, experience and competence that has been built up over time with great success, or whether it is quarterly reports for the financial markets and the management's own ambitions to circumvent trade unions that will apply. Speaking of another discussion that also emerged here: this also has a significant impact on the possibilities for climate change in aviation, like other activities that are technologically and innovation-intensive and at the same time emissions-intensive. An orderly conversion of the flight requires that the state is first more involved and not just washes its hands, and the transition becomes easier and more possible if the workforce through its trade union organisations is involved in the company's future strategies – not opposed or referred to insecure vigour. I have listened in vain for something like this on the part of the Minister for Economic Affairs. But there isn't. No one thinks anything but that sacrifices are required from different quarters when a company and an industry are in crisis. I believe that all employees in SAS also understand and agree. But the question is: In what way should the price be paid? Who is it that should time and again be flexible and compromise their reworked rights? For example, what has the SAS leadership itself contributed in terms of sacrifice? I think these are important issues for SAS and for the aviation market, but also more broadly. We know from the past that when employers find different ways to work around collective agreements and laws, something is spreading to other businesses as well. At least I think it feels rather strange that the Swedish state as owner of the company washes its hands and says it is in this way it must be.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-212	Mr President, I would like to I felt a little attacked by one of the interpellants. I would like to remind both the House and the interpellants that all 349 Members of Parliament are completely free to take part in interpellation debates, so also signed, regardless of whether they have written an interpellation or not. I asked for the floor after I heard the interpellants' speeches, which I did not really agree with the responsibilities of the Minister for Economic Affairs, because the issue itself is much broader. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that we Social Democrats stand up for the Swedish model. We stand up for the Scandinavian model, and we will never accept either conditionality dumping or wage dumping as a consequence of increased competition. We must act against this, but we must act in a way that also gives success and leads to real change. Air travel is a big and important issue. This is very much about the competitiveness of companies and the chances of survival, and if we are to improve competitiveness, we must first of all believe in aviation. We have to believe that aviation has a future. Then we must see the climate challenges. We must phase out the poorer fuels, be open to new technologies and ensure that new types of aircraft can be developed that enable us to have an environmentally friendly flight. At the same time, we must raise the issue of competition and the issue of employees' rights at international level, just as we have been doing with aviation safety for a very long time. We do this in the EU and in ICAO. Let's take the question where it belongs. I'd be very happy if the Left Party wanted to be in on it.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-217	Mr President, I would like to It becomes a bit contradictory if you say that you stand up for the Swedish model and at the same time demand that the Swedish parliament or myself as a minister in some form of ministerial government should settle the terms. For me, the Swedish model, both when I worked as a trade unionist and in my work as a politician, is about ensuring that employees can organise themselves, write collective agreements and agree on the terms. Good and decent conditions and a good working environment are still the core of the union. Mr President, I would like to In the case of state-owned companies, we have not least during my own time as Minister of Economic Affairs tightened up the requirements for how they should act. This, of course, does not mean that there are no changes. I think the Left Party also realises that if you sit in the Swedish parliament and say that nothing can be touched, it will only lead to these companies not remaining. So no one will have a job to go to. SAS is a good example here. It was not that long ago that we stood here debating and the Left Party was critical that we had gone in and supported SAS during the pandemic. Without that aid, there would have been no SAS. And I wouldn't say the danger's over yet. Although we see that large parts of the Swedish business community have come again after the pandemic and that the support we joined has saved Swedish jobs – it was a dozen different support we joined; short-term support was the largest – there are still sectors that are really bad. The flight is one of them. It is just as Teres Lindberg says: It is not about competition in Sweden. This is, of course, an international market in which companies, in this case within the European Union, are, unfortunately, competing with increasingly harsh price pressure with all that is involved. I myself have raised this issue well before this interpellation debate with the European Commission and the European Competition Commissioner. It's not sustainable. If companies that try to be fair get out of competition because other companies do their utmost to dump the conditions, then that is not possible. As an individual country, we cannot close the doors to companies of this kind. We can't do that, and we all know that. As Teres Lindberg says, we must, in parallel with making demands on our own companies in order for the Swedish model to apply in Sweden, also work to bring up the conditions within the European Union. This competitive situation is not sustainable for any company in the long run, I think. It is not even sustainable for those who have benefited so far – Ryanair or whatever their name is. Mr President, I would like to I understand, of course, that the Left Party is trying to score some political points in a difficult situation. But the truth is, there are no party political points to make here. The Left Party has been critical of these subsidies. I respect that. I disagree, but I respect that. The Left Party says that we should make climate demands, at the same time it criticises the fact that the company buys new aircraft. How does the Left Party believe that climate emissions will be reduced if it is not about biofuels and much fuel-efficient aircraft? Electric Elflyg are still 10, 15 or 20 years ahead. It's gonna be a little contradictory. But basically, I still think that I and the Left Party are quite in agreement. We will do our utmost to ensure that the Swedish model in which unions and employers negotiate the right conditions is what applies in our country. But that does not mean that there will be no change. That is a point with much of what the Swedish trade union movement has worked for. By claiming their conditions, jobs are sometimes lost, but then it is in a situation where you know that the jobs that are left can give a decent salary.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-226	Mr President, I would like to Now the Minister makes it sound like the Left Party was against state aid in general. But it was through, among other things, the Left Party and other parties that some of the state aid came into being. No, it's not about ministerial rule. It is about the unions being given the opportunity and tools to maintain the Swedish model. This is not about other companies, but about a company in which the state is a shareholder. Finally, I would like to say that we are on the workers' side when workers make sacrifices, as the layoffs are. Then I expect the agreements to be respected. The agreements clearly state that the right to re-employment applies. This should not be called into question in a company largely owned by the Swedish State. If SAS can do this, many other companies can go the same way. The fact that a Social Democratic government is not willing to do more in this matter than to shrug its shoulders is a betrayal of the historical work of the trade union movement. If we look back in time and look at how previous governments have dealt with the restructuring that has been going on for quite some time in SAS, we can see that the Minister's approach does not differ from that of the former right-wing government. It's practically copy-paste. The bill for the Swedish people will be that we have emptied the funds for a company that does not behave well towards workers and that also moves tax revenues abroad, tax revenues that were involved in saving them during the pandemic.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-231	Mr President, I would like to The Minister mentioned this with short-term support. Part of the problem here is that, instead of using short-term aid in many cases, it has simply chosen to resign in order to do what we describe as problematic. The Swedish model should be developed and not phased out – it has been a social democratic slogan. What you can hear here, when it comes to the development of the view of the Swedish model, seems to be that you should not have any views on reality but just observe, nod and say, yesa, fun that it was so or so boring that it was so. I do not believe that one can or should understand the Swedish model and the views of political parties and governments on it. No one has asked the Minister to sit down and sign a collective agreement with the SAS employees. They have their organizations that are great. They can do that on their own. No one has demanded that you go to any board meeting, but you should have views on the strategic choices made by the management of a company, especially when they are clearly contrary to good practice in the Swedish and Nordic labour markets. A newly elected colleague of the Minister, the Social Democratic Minister for Labour in Norway, said quite recently: We have seen people working, who are well qualified, who feel that the company is creating a new sub-company where they have to look for their jobs again. This is not a neat way to do it and a situation that we want to avoid. The SAS conflict raises this problem. That is what Hadia Tajik, the Social Democratic Minister for Labour in Norway, says. At least this might have been requested by the Swedish Government – but not.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-236	Mr President, I would like to The range of written lines in interpellation debates is that one does not listen to each other and that one tries to create conflicts where they basically do not exist. I do not believe that there is any conflict between us in terms of how the Swedish labour market should be regulated. This must be done through laws and regulations, but above all through collective agreements between the employees and the employer. When the employer, regardless of which company it is, including the state-owned companies, makes changes that affect the employees, it must of course negotiate with the union. That's it. That's a requirement. It is not just a basic requirement that we impose on state-owned companies. We also require them to ensure that their subcontractors have the right conditions and collective agreements. It is something that I have worked for as a minister of industry, with my very background in the trade union movement. Now we're talking about SAS. I must say that I am surprised, Mr President, that the Left Party seems to stick its head in the sand and believe that the crisis is over. It's not. The pandemic is in progress. Its impact on our economy is not as great today as it was last year, but some sectors, such as the travel sector, including aviation, are still in very bad shape. Although the Left Party is now trying to bring this emergency aid to last year through the Left Party, that is not what I have met from this pulpit. It's not really like that. Here, instead, there have been criticisms that we have gone in and supported. I'm glad we did. I would more than wish, Ali Esbati, that I could say that this is now a thriving business in which everyone will be guaranteed employment for a long time to come, but it would be as dishonest as saying that this is something that the government negotiates or does.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-241	Mr President, I would like to Linda Modig has asked me what initiatives and measures I am prepared to initiate and take to ensure continued operation at LKAB's mining operations in Norrbotten and to ensure active involvement by LKAB in the ongoing urban relocation in Kiruna. Mr President, I would like to Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. Sweden will continue to develop the mining industry and at the same time be a leading country in the mineral industry in terms of sustainable development. It is important for the government that Sweden has modern and effective permit processes. The permit processes in the mining and mineral fields are regulated in both the Environmental Code and the Mineral Act. The Government has appointed the Environmental Assessment Report (M 2020:06) with the mandate to propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental compliance test. The report is due to be submitted by the investigation on 31 May 2022. In addition, the Government has established an investigation into trial processes and regulations for the sustainable supply of innovation critical metals and minerals (N 2021:01). The study will, among other things, analyse and propose changes to review processes and regulations so that better account can be taken of both a project's local environmental impact and its societal benefits, such as reduced global climate impact. The report will be submitted by the end of October 2022. In addition, the Government has appointed a coordinator who can facilitate consultations and assist with coordination linked to the various trial and planning processes required for conversion projects within the industry in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. The Land and Environment Court announced on 12 October that LKAB's application for a permit for continued and expanded mining operations was rejected. As you know, the Government is unable to give an opinion on the legal considerations on which the Court's decision is based, nor is it obliged to give an opinion on cases in court proceedings. I can note that LKAB has communicated that the current operations in Kiruna can continue as before and that the company intends to appeal the court's decision, but that at the same time they start the process with a new application for the appeal not being heard. LKAB, like the other Swedish limited liability companies, is subject to the Swedish Companies Act, and it is therefore the company's Board and management that is responsible for the company's organisation and the day-to-day management of its operational operations. The government is aware that the ongoing urban transformation in Malmfälten is of a unique nature. According to the State's ownership policy, the Board of Directors of a company with State ownership is responsible for ensuring that the company is managed in an exemplary manner within the framework of the legislation, the company's articles of association and the State's ownership policy. The Government has confidence that LKAB is dealing with urban transformation in a responsible way.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-247	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. It is nice that the Minister for Economic Affairs notes that the ongoing urban transformation in Malmfälten is of a unique nature. In view of Luossavaara-Kiirunavaara AB's unique position and the unique ongoing urban transformation in Kiruna and Malmberget, where continued mining requires that parts of the cities gradually move as the mining spreads, is a natural and important starting point when we discuss LKAB's role in the state's corporate portfolio. LKAB, or LK as we say at home in Tornedalen and Malmfälten, is not a dozen companies. The company's fate is intertwined with the history, present and future of Kiruna and Malmberget. Since the company started in 1890, LKAB and the mining communities have grown and developed together, side by side. Today, more than 130 000 tonnes of iron ore are mined every day in LKAB's underground mines in Kiruna and Malmberget and in the open pit mine in Leveäniemi in Svappavaara. It's big numbers and numbers, almost unimaginable to grasp. If the daily production of mined iron ore was equivalent to steel, there would be about six Eiffel Towers every day. The company accounts for 85% of Europe's iron ore production and is a growing supplier of industrial minerals. The company is one of Sweden's largest export companies and a significant employer at the locations. Today, 4,500 employees have their livelihood from the company, and additional direct and indirect jobs are created in the region. Mining affects the lives of most people living in Kiruna, Svappavaara and Malmberget. Most of the inhabitants, the three Sami villages close to the company's local operations and many more are affected. The company has its registered office in Luleå. If you do not understand the company's special position in and dependence on Malmfälten, Norrbotten and Sweden, it will soon be problematic. LKAB is a cash cow in the state's ownership portfolio. For decades, the company has delivered significant contributions to the Swedish state and the household. In the 2010s alone, except for three, the company has created operating profit in the order of SEK 5– 15 billion. Last year was no exception. The delivery record was broken with 28.5 million tonnes and a production of 27.1 million tonnes. Madam President, I would like Today, crude ore is processed from LKAB's mines into climate-efficient iron ore products used in steel production. The products are delivered via Malmbanan and Ofotenbanen railway to the ports of Narvik and Luleå for shipping to customers around the world. At the same time, the company, the industry and Malmfälten face major challenges. The iron and steel industry accounts for a quarter of the industry's combined global CO2 emissions. Demand for steel is expected to increase by nearly 50% by 2050. As consumers, we want and need iron and steel in our daily lives, ranging from kitchen knives to mobile towers, wind turbines, cars, bridges, railways and buildings. LKAB has always been at the forefront in reducing CO2 emissions. From 1960 to today, emissions reductions of 84% have been achieved. Yet the company accounts for Sweden's fourth largest carbon dioxide emissions. Now the company faces its biggest transformation and challenge in its 130-year history. The goal is to create zero emissions of carbon dioxide from own processes and products by 2045. This requires a series of investment decisions. There are great technological leaps to be taken and much more. I would therefore like to ask how the state, through the department over which Ibrahim Baylan is head, ensures that ownership control is sufficiently active for LKAB to succeed in these fantastic challenges. How does the Minister of Economic Affairs ensure that the State's ownership policy supports this development?
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-256	Madam President, I would like I have to say – perhaps you can afford it when you are about to leave the government, as I have announced – that it is not often that during an interpellation debate you listen to the one who put the interpellation and think that everything that is said is sweet music in the ears. It has happened at some point that something is said that you do not agree with, but I have to say that what Linda Modig now brings up and describes very good is sweet music because it is just like that. To what Linda Modig says about this being important for Kiruna and Malmfälten you could possibly add something. Yes, it is certainly important for Norrbotten – absolutely – but I would say that it is important even from a European perspective. What LKAB is doing today, in addition to being Europe's largest producer of fine iron ore, is planning to get rid of carbon dioxide emissions in direct production but also to start looking over their slag heaps. They look at the innovation-critical minerals and metals that we know will be needed, whether we have electric cars, wind turbines or solar cells – all that is required for a large-scale electrification of our society. This, in turn, is absolutely necessary if we are to manage the climate crisis that we have created in a way that ensures the growth of jobs, that growth is increasing and thus that we can guarantee the welfare of our citizens. I am very proud of the work that LKAB is doing, and I can assure Linda Modig that we have a close dialogue through the Ministry but also through ministers and State Secretary, like any other state-owned company. In fact, I met LKAB's management as late as this week both to see how things are going and to hear about some of the conditions and challenges that exist. I don't need to tell Linda Modig, who has worked in the department and is an experienced politician with great knowledge, that as a minister I can't go into an individual case or a court process, but I have to say that I feel a great optimism about what is happening, both in terms of the direct business and in terms of the work that LKAB is involved in in changing other industries as well, which in turn is a prerequisite for, for example, the automotive industry, which is another industry that is important to Sweden, to get rid of its emissions. The answer to the question, Linda Modig, is yes, we are in favour of a continuous dialogue. LKAB is a fine company that already today contributes to very much of the modern society and the well-being that we have in terms of jobs and good results, but also the plans that exist when it comes to being able to take the difficult but necessary step of running a successful business in a way that does not add to the huge climate problems that we have already created. I find it very exciting to follow this work, and I look forward to continuing to do so. It may be from the sideline and in a different way, but it is still extremely exciting.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-262	Madam President, I would like The company faces great leaps, with new technology, automation and digitalisation, and with the new hydrogen technology that will produce carbon dioxide-free iron sponges on an industrial scale, while critical minerals will be extracted from mining waste, as the Minister for Economic Affairs pointed out. At the same time, LK will mine ore at greater depths than ever, up to 2,000 meters underground. One third of the electricity produced in Sweden will be required to cope with the scale up to a profitable industrial production of carbon dioxide-free iron sponge with hydrogen technology. The production and distribution of electricity is therefore a significant challenge. Today, Norrbotten takes the lead shirt in the global transformation of the iron and steel industry to fossil-free processes using hydrogen instead of carbon for fossil-free steel production, with the investments in H2 Green Steel and the Hybrid initiative, where LKAB, Vattenfall and SSAB collaborate. In order to master the technology development required, to ensure break down to existing main levels and to develop as a company, access to skilled labour is crucial. The company lives in symbiosis with its communities and activities in Kiruna, Svappavaara and Malmberget. If the company is to compete globally for the workforce in a situation where the whole of Norrbotten is growing and the supply of skills is already challenging d and strained, the company must also assume its social responsibility and continue to contribute to attractive and vibrant communities in interaction with the inhabitants, municipalities and local industries. It is challenging for both the company and the municipalities with their democratically elected representatives to best serve their respective interests while at the same time interacting and interacting. This requires a great deal of mutual respect, understanding and humility in the face of each other's roles, needs and prerequisites. However, the key success factor for the success of all innovation and technological leaps is effective and legally secure licensing processes. The company's CEO Jan Moström writes in the CEO's comment in last year's Annual and Sustainability Report that LKAB faces a number of difficult challenges where lengthy and unpredictable permit processes have a special place and that it calls for not milder environmental and climate regulations but predictability, through efficient and legally secure processes that put the environment at the centre. As the Minister for Economic Affairs is painfully aware, it is not only Jan Moström, LKAB, I, the Center Party, the mining and mineral industry and a large part of the Swedish parliament that are calling for and asking for permit processes that are effective, legally secure and previously owned only. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore how the government enables LKAB and Sweden, the entire mining and mineral industry, to take a leading role in a necessary global transition.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-269	Madam President, I would like I thank Linda Modig for the important question. She can also add my name to this. In answer to the question, it is against this background that we are now looking at mineral law, environmental law and other things to precisely create this predictability and robustness of the system. It is precisely my view that not only LKAB but also other Swedish companies that are calling for this type of change do not do so because they want to pollute the environment or believe that it would be a sustainable way to pollute water or air. On the contrary, they probably see this as an important part of their competitive advantage vis-à-vis international companies that they are just sustainable. I think it is equally important to follow up on the implementation of rules and laws in later stages, which I think Linda Modig agrees with. It is easy for us, as politicians in the government and parliament, to make a change in a law or regulation and to think that we have now done so. My picture is that with the same rules the handling seems to take place very different depending on which county you are in. I usually take the example of Northvolt's establishment in Skellefteå as with the same environmental code, mineral laws and other laws and regulations went very much faster than other establishments north of the county border. For me, it is important now to review the regulatory framework in the sense of creating the predictability and efficiency that we are talking about, but also to follow this up in the work of county boards, state authorities and municipalities. This work is also ongoing. In addition, we have also appointed a special coordinator because these are very complex contexts. When I listen to Linda Modig's description of the problems with the supply of skills, I remember the time when we were students at the university and what the situation was then in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. At the time it was exactly the opposite, and the number of jobs decreased. This often made it the solution for many people to either move to Umeå, which was one of the few towns in northern Sweden that grew, or to move south. Now we're in a completely different position. It is clear that it is a major challenge, but it is also sweet music that the number of jobs exceeds the number of people present there today. And it is clear that the solution is that we are helping each other to ensure that we find labour both within the country but also internationally through migration. We will need manpower that comes to all the fine industries that are now emerging and that all really have the same direction, namely to reset and be the first there – the first mover advantage – and ensure that in this way competitiveness is strengthened. This will be a major challenge. If it had been just one company, LKAB, Boliden or Northvolt, it might have been possible to handle it. Thankfully, however, there are now so many investments taking place at the same time, and no company will be able to cope with this on its own. That is why we work together through our agencies and our coordinator and sometimes through direct initiatives. And I look forward very much to following this work. If I compare with the 1990s and what it was like when I worked in Norrbotten and Västerbotten, it is a completely different spirit now, and I welcome that.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-276	Madam President, I would like Let me return to the fact that LKAB is not a dozen company among the state's 46 companies. That is not to say that I consider the other wholly-owned state-owned companies to be dozens of companies. However, LKAB occupies a special position when it comes to the future of Malmfälten, Tornedalen and the entire Norrbotten region, present and development. Although the Minister for Economic Affairs has announced his intention to hand over the baton to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industry shortly, I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the Minister for Economic Affairs, his successors and employees at the Department to a number of conditions which still give me cause for concern. The first has already been discussed, namely the licensing processes. The second is the company's governance and management. One might ask whether the company has the necessary focus on the core business, the production of iron ore and special products in Malmfälten. Does the company have the focus, the ability, the sense and the feeling required to be a constructive partner to Kiruna Municipality and Gällivare Municipality? The tone of the letter from the company to the municipal management in Gällivare gives cause for concern. What happens to gender equality in the company? It is increasing among all employees, but unfortunately in Group Management it goes in the opposite direction. Recently, the last woman in the eight strong group management has announced that she will stop at LKAB and move on. How does the government follow up LKAB's work as an example and a forerunner when it comes to the particular importance of state-owned companies in terms of environmental and social responsibility, such as ethics, working conditions, human rights, the fight against corruption and gender equality and diversity? Should the company be credible as an example when it comes to gender equality and diversity, it may be reasonable that it is also visible in the company's group management. Is the company focused on its role as an actor in Norrbotten, and is the company and Group Management starting from the head office at Varvsgatan in Luleå? If so, why is the surface area of Klarabergsviadukten growing in Stockholm? Does the Minister of Economic Affairs really believe that the government's current governance is sufficiently active and effective?
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-281	Madam President, I would like I would also not like to refer to any of the companies in which the state is a whole or a part-owner of a dozen companies. But it is clear that the forest, ore and water have a special position in both size and importance. Vattenfall, LKAB and Sveaskog are just such companies that have a special position both in size and by virtue of what they are engaged in. We have a continuous dialogue with all companies. We have ownership dialogues several times a year. In addition, I myself usually wish to participate in the dialogue with the largest companies at least once or twice a year. I do so because a number of questions are very important. And it is clear that the issue of gender equality has been high on the agenda and will continue to do so. It is also about issues of the environment and how they are followed up. Of course, questions about the conditions for these companies, not least in relation to the local environment in which they operate, are also central issues. Linda Modig, who has worked at the Ministry of Enterprise, knows very well that this is not a static activity. Ownership has developed a lot in recent decades and will continue to do so. Even if you think you now have a model that deals with potential problems today, we know that reality is changing, and our values and goals are changing. That is why corporate governance needs to be constantly developed. I think we have developed it very well, but it will have to continue to develop in a society that is constantly changing.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-284	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me, on the one hand, whether I want a larger proportion of the catches of professional fishing to be used for human consumption, and whether the answer is yes, whether I intend to take any measures to achieve it, and, on the other hand, whether I am prepared to give the mandate to extend today's sampling and monitoring of dioxins in fish. Madam President, I would like I think it would be a good thing if a larger proportion of the catches of fish by professional fishing that are subject to Sweden's derogation from the EU maximum levels for dioxins in fish could be used as food, but this is subject to the condition that the protection of public health is not jeopardised and that Sweden fulfils the obligations arising from our derogation from the EU's limit values. Madam President, I would like In 2018, Efsa carried out a risk assessment of dioxins and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls, i.e. PCBs. Efsa then recommended that the amount of dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs that a person can consume over a week without endangering health should be reduced sevenfold compared to the previous recommendation of 2001. Work is also under way within the World Health Organisation (WHO) to revise certain toxicological parameters for dioxins. This work is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. The European Commission then plans to carry out a review of the EU limit values for dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs in foodstuffs. One possible consequence of the risk assessment and the forthcoming review in the EU is that exposure of the population to dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs via food should be further reduced in order to protect public health. This could include lowering EU limits for dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs in food and the introduction of dietary advice throughout the EU, similar to those in Sweden for fish subject to the dioxin derogation.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. One might think that the issue of dioxin in fish is a rather narrow one, Madam President, but it is an important ambition to try to get more of the fish in the Baltic Sea in particular to go to human consumption. It is important not only from a resource perspective – that it is more effective to use the fish directly for human consumption than, for example, to use it as a raw material for fishmeal that becomes input in feed production – but it is also an important measure to try to strengthen the profitability of Swedish professional fishing. Of course, it pays better to sell fish for human consumption than as a raw material to the fishmeal industry or the fish oil industry. However, the problem of dioxin is a challenge for fish in the Baltic Sea. This is a serious and important issue, because, as the Minister mentioned, it is a matter of food safety. These requirements and limit values are, of course, for a reason. However, it is good that Sweden has an exception to the basic rules in the EU, which means that we have the opportunity to sell fish to human consumption and that we can take advantage of the resource we still have in the Baltic Sea. What is also pleasing, Madam President, is that we have seen for quite a number of years that levels of dioxin in fish from the Baltic Sea have fallen. We are therefore seeing a positive development. It should also be said that part of the explanation for this may be professional fishing. When fishermen land catches from the Baltic Sea that go to industry, they take up a small amount of dioxin that is present in the Baltic Sea, and in this way it can be cleansed in industry. However, what I am highlighting in this interpellation is the following: if we are to achieve the ambition that I and the Minister obviously share – the Minister made it clear in his reply that he felt it would have been positive if a larger proportion of catches of professional fishing could go to human consumption – I think it is important that we develop sampling in the Baltic Sea, Madam President. We need to test to a greater extent to obtain evidence on the areas in which fish have higher or lower levels of dioxin, if there are variations over the year, if there are variations between smaller and larger fish and much more. That is simply what is needed to enable the ambition of both the Minister and I. Unfortunately, I did not really get the answer to the question whether the Minister and the Government are prepared to take the initiative to increase sampling. It is therefore a concrete tool for achieving the ambition that the Minister obviously shares with me. I am therefore happy to repeat that question, Madam President. Because it's central.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-293	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is of course crucial that we continue to measure, and no, I do not rule out that we can increase the measurements. But perhaps it is just as important how the work on limit values develops. As Johan Hultberg says, we have had an exception, Madam President, for almost 20 years. The Social Democratic Government at the time managed to obtain an exception, and since then we have had it. But as Johan Hultberg probably knows – he follows this question and is well-read – there is now work going on, which I also explained. The measurements we do anyway show what Johan Hultberg says, namely that a deeper analysis of the level data we have from several years back can see that the level trend is downwards. Unfortunately, it is actually going too slowly; we would have liked it to go much faster. Unfortunately, in recent years it varies very little. This, of course, will depend on the results of the work that is going on, and there we will be very active not only in asserting this fisheries – not least for human consumption, because I share that view – but also in order for it to be as safe as possible. If there is new knowledge, we must of course be prepared to take it on board, and in answer to Johan Hultberg's question: If this requires an increase in the measurements, it is clear that I am in favour of it.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-296	Madam President, I would like I welcome the last thing the Minister says, namely that there is an opening in the government to extend sampling. I would really like to emphasise that it would be important. This would be a concrete measure which would not cost much money but could have strengthened the competitiveness of professional fishing. It would also have been a positive change to the many other measures that this government has unfortunately taken and which have rather weakened the competitiveness of professional fishing, Madam President. For example, long drawn-out proposals have been made on monitoring professional fishing and limiting shrimp fishing by, for example, stopping bottom trawling in the West Sea. This would therefore be a concrete measure in which the government could strengthen the competitiveness of professional fishing. Today, unfortunately, sampling is very limited. It's a concern. With increased sampling we would have a better environmental monitoring and better basis for our authorities in their advice. Today, advice from the Swedish Food Administration is fairly flat-rate given that there is no good evidence of how it looks more at a detailed level in the Baltic Sea – for example, as I said, how dioxin levels vary between different parts of the Baltic Sea, how they vary between different species and sizes of fish, and how they vary over the year. Today, some sampling takes place through the National Museum of Natural History, and the Finnish Food Authority has some monitoring of the Baltic Sea as part of its food safety work. It would therefore be a good thing if we could scale this up. I also believe that this is important in the very context highlighted by the Minister, namely in the discussion on changing the limit values. It would be good if we had a better basis for dealing with the different limit values. So I look forward to the words expressed in this House being translated into action so that we can see increased funding for this sampling – and perhaps new missions to the responsible authorities to see how to develop and strengthen sampling in order to thus strengthen the competitiveness of professional fishing and contribute to the increase in consumption of fish in a food-safe and environmentally sound manner.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-301	Madam President, I would like I realise, of course, that it is in the nature of the matter to try to criticise the opponent and take political points, in this case, by suspecting the government that professional fishing has had a tough period. But the truth is – and Johan Hultberg knows this – that the big challenge, not least in the Baltic Sea, is that stocks are under considerable pressure. It is one of the main reasons for the quotas proposed recently by the Commission and which were also discussed in negotiations. There Sweden has worked for exceptions precisely to ensure that our professional fishing, not least coastal fishing, survives. Let us turn to the question of levels and sampling. Just as Johan Hultberg says, it is the Finnish Food Authority that is responsible for this, and you follow it continuously. Even though we see, as I said, that the levels are downwards over a longer period, it is, unfortunately, far too slow, and in recent years there have not been such great variations. Nevertheless, if we get new limit values, there may be a point in increasing this activity. First of all, however, I think that we should be very active in this discussion, because it is clear that this kind of recommendation will play a very important role – especially as Sweden, as I said, has an exception from 2002, I think it is. It was anything but obvious when it came about.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-304	Madam President, I would like It is true that we have a particularly great challenge in the Baltic Sea with regard to stocks. After all, we have serious environmental problems in the Baltic Sea that are linked to historical overfishing and to the impact of industry with, for example, the supply of dioxins, which we have in our seas. Today we also have a very serious problem with eutrophication. The Baltic Sea is an inland sea that we share with a great many countries. That is why the Moderates are pushing for increased international cooperation to address the many and very big challenges that we have with regard to the Baltic Sea. The Moderates have also been the driving force for reshaping the EU's fisheries policy. It is much more ecosystem-based and sustainable today. We in the Moderates want to further strengthen this work with not least more of long-term management plans that are established over several years and that create predictability for the industry. What is important, not least in the light of the fact that quotas are being reduced, is that we are also thinking about how we can do more and get greater values out of the resource that we still fish. Then it is important to look at how a larger proportion of the fish fished in the Baltic Sea can be landed for human consumption and come higher up the processing stage. Here the issue of increased sampling is important. I hope that is not what the Minister meant, but I understood the Minister's last speech a little bit like he put more sampling against the work on limit values. These are two things that should go hand in hand. I think it is important that we increase and extend the sampling and that this work goes hand in hand with the work of reviewing and changing the limit values. We need better evidence to be able to formulate our recommendations to consumers. We also need a better basis in order to have a good and nuanced discussion about where the limit values should be.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-309	Madam President, I would like What Johan Hultberg says is correct – these things do not stand against each other, but they are each other's prerequisites. I just mean that when work on the limit values comes, it may even be that this in itself justifies increased sampling. I understand that Johan Hultberg and I are basically quite in agreement. Then, of course, the basic question itself is very pressured and problematic. We have the problems that we have in the Baltic Sea, which Johan Hultberg also talks about.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-311	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked the Prime Minister if there is a plan to reinstate a rural minister to the government. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Since 30 June 2021, I am responsible for the issues for which the Minister for Rural Development has previously been responsible. In Sweden, no matter where you live, everyone should be able to live, develop and realize their dreams. Actions in many different policy areas contribute to this. In the Government budget proposal for 2022 (prop. 2021/ 22:1) proposes reforms of a total of SEK 74 billion in order for the climate change to move faster, for more people to get to work, for welfare to be strengthened and for Sweden to be a safe country for all. The same budget proposal also presents several major initiatives for Sweden to have vibrant and viable rural areas and a competitive and environmentally sustainable agriculture. Among other things, an investment of SEK 28.5 billion – SEK 5.7 billion per year – is proposed for measures under the second pillar of the CAP and national measures during the programming period 2023 – 2027. This is an increase of approximately half a billion SEK per year compared to what was budgeted for the transition year 2021 and 2022 in the budget proposal 2021(prop. 2020/ 21:1). Furthermore, the Government proposes that funds be allocated to both fuel stations and grocery stores to contribute to a good access to commercial services throughout the country. SEK 75 million is allocated for 2022 and the same amount for 2023 to fuel stations in areas with a sparse service, which are in need of support to get help to carry out investments needed for handling flammable liquids. The special operating aid for grocery stores in vulnerable areas will be added to SEK 35 million per year from 2023 onwards. This addition means that the aid intensity is permanent at SEK 70 million annually. Madam President, I would like In the budget proposal for 2022, the government also strengthens the training of veterinarians and animal keepers at SLU, takes further steps to manage the growing boar population, continues to provide money to combat forest damage and provides funds to develop both the tourism industry and the business climate in sparsely- and rural areas. Madam President, I would like The Government also proposes major investments in infrastructure with a focus on, among other things, the fine-mesh road network in rural areas. A further half billion SEK will be invested in broadband roll-out throughout the country in 2022. In addition to this, the government strengthens the regions in 2022 by SEK 500 million to support small and medium-sized enterprises in need of a start-up after the pandemic. In addition, specific support is proposed to support municipalities with specific challenges. These are examples of some of the government's efforts that contribute to the possibility of living, working and living throughout the country. Regarding whether there is a plan to reinstate a rural minister, the Prime Minister has announced that he will leave the post of party chairman of the Social Democrats at the Party Congress in November and then request his resignation as Prime Minister. How the work in the government is to be conducted will then be a matter for the new Prime Minister.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-319	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. This government has removed both the Minister for Rural Development and the Ministry for Rural Development. This can surely be seen in different ways – a government can of course organise itself in many different ways. But it still sends a signal if you run a policy that is rather hard on the countryside, towards Norrland and towards distance and at the same time eliminates the functions in the government that could ensure that you have more focus on this. The Minister for Economic Affairs talked a lot about the party programme of the Social Democrats – or, in fact, more correctly, about the Social Democrats' budget. Much of the answer was about this and not about the question I asked. For the listener, it may be well worth answering some of these parts. Seven years of a Social Democratic government has meant that we have gone from being one of Europe's best countries to being one of Europe's worst countries in terms of combating unemployment, for example. In fact, we are so bad that this government itself took away the only target that it wanted to be evaluated on, namely the unemployment rate that it went to elections in 2014. It was then said that Sweden would have Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020. According to the way in which the government itself measured unemployment, Sweden has gone from being one of the best countries in Europe to being one of the worst countries in Europe. No country has actually had such a bad development that Sweden has had. Relative child poverty has almost doubled in seven years with a Social Democratic government. The relative child poverty of 13 per cent that prevailed during the Alliance government was indecent, according to this government, but after seven years the number of children in relative child poverty has doubled. This may be good to remember. Yesterday, the largest newspaper in Europe wrote that Sweden has now become the most dangerous in Europe. It is a complete failure to offer citizens security and so on. We have a shortage of electricity, an energy crisis and a cement crisis. Some of these areas, Madam President, are on the table of the Minister for Economic Affairs. A functioning industrialized country has become a country with such shortcomings in the energy system that business start-ups do not happen. The county from which both I and the Minister for Enterprise recently turned down 2,000 jobs in a small municipality due to lack of power. I am happy to continue this kind of debate on the government's failure in the area by area, Madam President, but I would like to devote the next lines to actually talking about what I asked you about. What I asked the Prime Minister, to whom the Minister for Economic Affairs is now here to answer, was whether there is a plan to reintroduce a rural minister into this government. The Minister for Industry replied that a new Prime Minister may give notice of this. The minister may not be able to answer more than this, but it's boring. I would like to see more focus on this type of issue, Madam President, which concerns rural policy. We have a lot of things that need to be resolved there. We have a concentration of power in terms of both politics, authorities and the media. We need to balance it up, and these are some features that could do that. I do not have much more to add to the debate, because I do not get an answer to the basic question. But, of course, I am also debating everything else.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-330	I would like to remind you that we should stick to the subject of the interpellation debate.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-331	Madam President, I would like I was just about to say that it was the most confused in the form of interpellations that I have heard, because the answer to the question is exactly what Edward Riedl himself read out. In a few weeks, we'll have a new prime minister. And this prime minister, whoever it may be – I think it is Magdalena Andersson if she is elected at the Social Democratic Party Congress – will, like all other prime ministers, have access to the formation of government. How to organize the formation of government is usually a little different between different prime ministers. Precisely the portfolio of Minister for Rural Affairs was previously, as Edward Riedl says, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. At the government crisis this summer, it turned to me. I think we must all agree that it is the policy that is being pursued that is the important thing. I did not present the Social Democratic policy. I presented the budget proposal that is on Parliament's table and that is to be discussed. There we make the biggest investments that have been made in rural and sparsely populated areas. And why do we do that? Not only because it is a question of justice, but also because we believe that it is a huge step towards developing our country. Besides that it was among the more confusing posts it was also a bit quarrelsome. Although we may of course have different views on what is a problem or not, I believe that neither Edward Riedl, I nor anyone else who has lived in the North Bottom or Västerbotten has seen such a positive development in the two counties in decades. There is also the lowest unemployment rate in the country. This has not been the case – quite the opposite. In the 70s, 80s, 90s and 00s, even when we had moderate prime ministers, the major problem was depopulation and job losses. Today it is exactly the opposite, and it must well be a moderate Member of Parliament from Västerbotten, Edward Riedl. Edward Riedl then tries to get some statistics, Madam President, to describe how black the country is. And of course you can always use statistics as you wish. It is to be remembered, however, that not only the whole of Sweden, but the whole of Europe and the whole world are still in the grip of a pandemic that has hit both employment and entrepreneurship in a way that we have not seen in peacetime before. Nevertheless, as regards the employment rate mentioned by Edward Riedl, Sweden has one of the highest employment rates. The Swedish people are a busy people who work and want to work. Even during this pandemic, we can see that, despite this very deep crisis, we have a higher employment rate than we had in 2014, when this government took over.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-336	Madam President, I would like The Minister talked in his first and second speeches about almost everything except what I asked about. I think he should actually answer my questions, otherwise it will be strange for the viewers. I used the statistics to which the government itself referred and which it wanted to be measured in terms of unemployment. The fact that we have gone from one of Europe's best to one of Europe's worst countries shows the statistics that the government itself said we should use to measure unemployment, child poverty as well. The positive developments in Norrbotten and Västerbotten, I think, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Madam President, are just as happy. But it is not thanks to the government's policy, but it is in fact despite the government's policy that all this amazing happens in our part of the country. The positive developments I think we are just as happy about. It should then be remembered, Madam President, that some of the things that make us now have large establishments in Norrland are things that this government is trying to combat. For example, the energy price is one of the most important reasons why so many people want to establish themselves in Norrland. The last time I heard the Minister for Energy, he was going to turn Sweden into an energy area. This would mean significantly increased energy prices in Norrland for private individuals, homeowners and others, but also for the industry that has established itself in Norrland precisely because of low energy prices, thanks to hydropower and much more. This is something that the government intends to fight and not support, so it is not something that this government can take credit for. As far as taxes are concerned, the Minister reads out from the budget bill rather small investments in most areas which, of course, also benefit rural areas. However, there have been large increases in taxation during the seven years that this government has been in government: increased petrol tax, increased diesel tax, increased vehicle tax and airline tax. These are the things that most affect those who have the worst access to public transport. That is to say, it hits the countryside harder, it hits Norrland harder. This makes production more expensive in those parts of the country that have greater distances. All of this is a responsibility for this government. We've become an extreme country. We have the second most expensive diesel in the world. After the turn of the year, diesel in this country will be the most expensive in the world. This is what makes the possibilities in Norrland difficult. It makes it more difficult in rural areas. If we had a rural minister and a rural ministry, there might have been more in the government who would have said: Wait, stop and prove! This policy will create a divide between city and country. But you haven't. That is why I ask the question, Madam President, why for seven years the government has put a huge tax burden on those living outside the cities with great efficiency. Only the increase in diesel prices this year has meant that one fifth of Swedish agriculture's profits have disappeared. The government represented by the Minister for Economic Affairs has directed tax increases with great efficiency at a distance, in rural areas, in Norrland. It would have been good to have someone in the government who could guard these matters, but that is not the case. That is why I ask the question, and the answer is, of course, the only thing that the Minister for Economic Affairs can give us, that the next Prime Minister will get to grips with it. I hope that Prime Minister will have a moderate colour, so maybe it can become a rural department and focus on that kind of issue again.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-346	Madam President, I would like Cooperation with the Swedish Democrats has obviously also affected moderate rhetoric, not least Edward Riedl's rhetoric. I have rarely heard such a black painting of a country as the one we now heard. Sweden has unequivocal challenges. Some of them we share with many other parts of the world, such as the energy crisis that is currently taking place throughout Europe. It is quite clear, Madam President, that, according to Edward Riedl's explanatory model, it is because, following the government crisis this summer, a few months ago, we did not appoint a special rural minister without transferring the issues to me. That is a very strange rhetoric. Madam President, I would like If I were Edward Riedl, I'd probably have a shame when we talk about rural ventures and efforts to benefit the whole country. Edward Riedl usually sounds like this. But every time we have had a moderate government, a line has been drawn on rural efforts. He calls the bets that I just outlined in the budget bill for small-money. We allocate 28.5 billion to agricultural and rural policy by 2027. That's an increase of half a billion a year. In addition to this investment, broadband money is allocated, money for the conversion of the stations, so that they can both remain and be safer, permanent support for grocery stores, major investments in education and major investments in the energy sector, Edward Riedl. Now I'm going to be a little generous, even if you don't usually do this. Very much of the energy policy that applies today has been voted on together. During the last parliamentary term, we worked out every bill together and sat in this House – not me but you – and voted in favour of it. What has that meant? Well, we have almost every day large surpluses of electricity in this country, not least in the part of the country that both I and Edward Riedl represent. Edward Riedl says it's much more expensive now. Yes, but it is all over Europe. Nevertheless, Sweden has among the lowest electricity prices in Europe, and northern Sweden has among the lowest prices in Sweden. It is not surprising, because the energy agreement that we made together and worked on for almost four and a half years had as its goal that Sweden should have a structural surplus. There has been an enormous amount of investment in our rural and sparsely populated areas, not least in northern Sweden. Up to 100 billion in investment has been made, and that is why we have such large surpluses. Before that, we were able to move from surplus to deficit year after year. As late as 2012/ 13, Sweden was dependent on imports, but we are no longer. There are so many opportunities here, not least in terms of industrial start-ups, that we should continue to work towards having structural surpluses and competitive prices. It may sound strange to someone who is so hard on rhetoric, but I would like to say that it would be very good for our country if, instead of using rhetoric like this, we could sit around the table again and continue to work for a common energy policy. It would benefit Sweden much more than the SD-like rhetoric that Edward Riedl now moves with.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-355	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that nothing would please me more than if we could sit down and resolve these issues. The problem is that the Social Democrats have put themselves in government with the Green Party, which makes it impossible to have a functioning energy policy, a workable policy for more jobs and businesses and a solution to the problems of crime and much more. It's important to remember that the black-painting minister calls SD rhetoric-- I don't know exactly what it is that would be-- I don't stand for. It's the reality that knocks on the door. It is the outside world that describes Sweden as Europe's most dangerous country. It is the largest newspaper in Europe that writes so about the outcome of government policy. It is not I who put such labels on Sweden. Both the international press and voters feel – rightly – that the development is going to the wrong place, and the government is responsible for it. When Social Democratic governments don't spend that much money, they often tell you how much it is when you put together many years. In fact, only petrol tax increases, diesel tax increases and vehicle tax increases take more money from the countryside than the government adds. It is worth reminding those who listen to this debate about. Madam President, I would like I think that when people sit around the kitchen table and look at their personal finances and add up everything, they find that they are losers when this government rules.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-359	Madam President, I would like It was a new variant of why we left a cooperation that has benefited the whole country, not least the northern parts of the country, i.e. the sparsely populated and rural areas we are talking about, and which has led to major establishment precisely because there is access to green, clean and cheap electricity. It is no coincidence that Hybrid with carbon-free steel or Northvolt with batteries, both energy-intensive businesses, have established themselves here. There have been large surpluses of hydropower and growing wind power thanks to our joint work. Edward Riedl says the Social Democrats do but not the Green Party. I would not have had to inform Edward Riedl about this if he himself had studied, but it was the five parties Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Center who worked together. The proposals we agreed then came to the House, and we voted them together. The whole deal was held to the letter. The reason why the Moderates left the agreement was the pressure of the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats on the nuclear issue; that was the case. I think that's a shame. As far as the development of our whole country is concerned, there are, of course, problems but also great opportunities. One of the greatest opportunities is the necessary climate change, for it has so far proved to be extremely positive for the counties we are talking about, Norrbotten and not least our old home county Västerbotten. Madam President, I would like The semi-populist and rather harsh rhetoric will certainly mark much of the coming election year. But we should still be able to sit down and work on certain issues, and it would be very good for Sweden if the Moderates could return to the energy issue.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-364	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I could consider introducing a new rural authority and, in such cases, also placing it in Lycksele. In March 2009, the then rural authority, the Glesbygdsverket, was decommissioned by the government of Reinfeldt. The tasks of the rural authority were transferred to two new authorities, the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analysis and the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Glebygdsverket had its operations in Östersund, and the two authorities to which the data were transferred also have operations located in Östersund. Since 2018, Sweden has a coherent rural policy. The Parliament adopted the overall objective of rural policy in June 2018. In the same year, the Swedish Agency for Growth was tasked with being an authority that works for coordinated action, promoting rural development at different levels and promoting the achievement of rural policy objectives. The Swedish Agency for Growth has its operations in several parts of the country. Those working with rural development are mainly located in Östersund. The Swedish Agency for Growth is currently engaged in a solid effort to strengthen, monitor and analyse the implementation of rural policy. Among other things, the Authority is responsible for developing and using, together with other authorities, methods to strengthen the rural perspective in the activities of the relevant authorities. Decisions by many authorities affect the conditions for living, living and working in rural areas. The government has also implemented several measures to strengthen the state presence in the country, such as several relocations, a new regulation on the location and strategic location of new authorities and activities by state authorities. The Swedish Agency for Growth has the Government's mission to promote sustainable business development, regional development and rural development. The implementation of rural policy is strengthened by the synergies between policy areas that may arise in the task of the Swedish Agency for Growth.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-369	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. In Sweden we have a concentration of power to the big city. The political power is largely in Stockholm, and many MPs live in the Greater Stockholm region. Many of the political officials also live in Stockholm because commuting is not functional. This means that there will be a lot of big city perspectives in politics, which unfortunately more or less permeates all parties. Madam President, I would like Similarly, we have a concentration of authorities, and those who work at these agencies live for purely functional reasons in Stockholm. This means that they get a certain view of what society looks like. Add to this the concentration of the media. Almost half of the country's journalists live in a small circle around the Parliament House – if you look at it from a Swedish perspective. In the Stockholm region, there is therefore much of the national media. You can put all this together. And I usually do, Madam President, when I meet schoolchildren above all from my home country. I usually explain that it's clear that this all affects the perspective. When a lot of people with a lot of power both reflect reality, influence reality and make decisions about reality and when all these people live on a rather small space, there is a clear risk that perspectives will be affected from this. Madam President, I would like That is actually why I have proposed in a motion that we set up a new rural authority. That is what I want to ask the Minister. Are there such thoughts in the government? I also think that such an authority could usefully be placed in a place such as Lycksele, which covers both the rural perspective and the Norrland perspective, while at the same time there is the possibility of good communications and the possibility of recruiting people to such an authority. Unfortunately, there is a gap between town and country, and it can certainly be interpreted differently depending on where you are. But it's there. And there are differences depending on where you live. I usually take another example: Norrmejerier. That's where the milk we drink up in Norrland largely comes from. Norrmejerier can travel ten times as long for each litre of milk to be collected, such as Skånemejerier. If you then have the prospect of increasing diesel taxes very much, Madam President, as this government has done, it is clear that it beats ten times as hard on every litre of milk in Norrland as in Skåne, for example. That's why you need to get these perspectives in mind when making decisions. One way is to have a rural authority, for example, that can help in a better way than is being done today. Sweden has become an extreme country in terms of, for example, taxation of fuels. We have the second most expensive diesel in the world. After the turn of the year, Sweden will have the most expensive diesel in the world. Of course, it affects people, and it affects our companies. It hits those who lack alternatives – those who do not have public transport in everyday life. Now that energy prices are flashing and the prices of petrol and diesel are running, Madam President, I was a little happy when the government said: we will try to find some compensation for those living in rural areas. But the answer a few days later was that you do not intend to compensate the countryside, but what you should do is reduce the travel allowance – again with the cape aimed at those who have the longest distances. I think that the government should actually try to do something about this, for example through a new rural authority.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-380	Madam President, I would like It is easy to agree with much of the description of how it has been and, to some extent, of what power concentration and other things look like. Part of it is natural; the fact that this Parliament is located in the capital of the country is perhaps not surprising. On the other hand, the concentration of authorities that has been available can be rectified. This government, during the seven years I have worked, has actively worked to move the state authorities and government jobs throughout the country. For the state should be present; I think it has many points. Apart from employment itself and the widening of labour markets, it is about the legitimacy and credibility of the common, not least the state. It is against that background that this is happening. However, one should be aware – and I think Edward Riedl is – that this has been met almost every time by criticism from his fellow party members. The Moderates haven't exactly rejoiced. Then perhaps Edward Riedl says: This is because we have so many Members of Parliament from Stockholm. Yeah, it's possible. However, this has not been without political criticism, but yet we have done so. Is that enough? No, it doesn't. I think we need to get back to work. Now Edward Riedl points out a rural authority. It was abolished under the previous moderate-led government because it wanted to bring it together precisely on the basis of a number of synergies. I have a counter-question for Edward Riedl. If it is the case that the accident has arrived and we have a moderate government, does Edward Riedl promise that it will be a rural authority in Lycksele? For my part, I think that it feels a little nice – not to mention how nice it feels to do it in the last few weeks you are responsible for the business – to get into the kind of reasoning where you lift a split of the Swedish Agency for Growth. We are still in a pandemic, where the Swedish Agency for Growth has a central role, not least in terms of employment and the opportunity to live in all parts of our country.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-386	Madam President, I would like Then let me remind those who listen about one thing, because I suspected the rhetoric. I will not lower myself to the level that the Minister for Enterprise is at, where everything that is critical of the reality that you yourself are responsible for is SD rhetoric, black painting and so on. I am not going to lower myself to that kind of rhetoric, Madam President, but I can only say that the Minister is once again trying to play the cards away. Instead, what was done was to set up a rural authority, which this government has abolished. We can go back as far as history and find both one and the other, but that was not my point with this debate. Provided that there is an interest from this rural government, I think there is a reason to work with them. First of all, I think it would be wise to restore the role of rural ministers in the government. It is also about what I say in the interpellation: I think we should have a rural authority. I also think that it should be placed far beyond the big city, with advantage, for example, in Norrland. I think that's important. With regard to the question of the relocation of authorities, I would just like to remind those who listen that the eight parties in Parliament were behind the relocation that the government is now undertaking. Then perhaps the Minister for Economic Affairs will be able to answer how many of the 10,000 jobs would be relocated that this government has relocated over these years. It would have been interesting to hear when you say that you have accomplished so much. I would like an answer to that. How many of the 10 000 jobs we agreed would be relocated to the authorities have been successful? Again, the reasons why you need to do this are obvious. There are great differences between city and country, and with the concentration of power that I have mentioned before by both politics, authorities and the media, there is reason for the policy to find mechanisms to ensure that more perspectives come in. Then you might find other solutions to the problems that need to be solved in society. I think that the solutions largely shine with their absence during this government. The Minister will be happy to answer these questions. What I actually asked a question about – whether a rural authority is being set up – I understand that the Minister will not answer.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-393	Madam President, I would like Facts are facts. For those who want to check this, it is only to read through the parliamentary protocols, not least with regard to the interpellations to which several of my colleagues have responded. There have been rather critical voices from moderate members of parliament, not least directed at Ardalan Shekarabi when he was Minister of Civil Affairs. It has then been precisely the type of relocation of state authorities that this government is engaged in. Is that enough? No, it's not. We'd have to keep working on this. But I can only say that this did not happen during a moderate government. Now Edward Riedl claims that I am making up my mind, Madam President, when I say that it was the Reinfeldt Government that dismantled the Glesbygdsverket, the rural authority that existed at the time. This was done in March 2009, and I know that Fredrik Reinfeldt was at the time the country's Prime Minister, and the government was led by the Moderates. It's a fact. It is not an invention or a black-painting in any way, Madam President. It was precisely the reorganisation that I was talking about and what is today the Swedish Agency for Growth. Madam President, I would like We are on our way into an election movement; it is already beginning to be noticed. In an election movement, different options will be set against each other. You also go through how it looks historically and what you have done. Both the current government and the parties that have previously had the opportunity to sit in government will of course be examined. That is the case in a democracy. I can only say how it always sounds from Edward Riedl. Since I have had the privilege of sitting on the same bench as he has for a long time, I have heard this kind of rhetoric. But in reality, every time the country's government has been led by the moderate party, there has been a big city focus. Let me give you a concrete example. In all the years that the Moderates led the government, Madam President, Edward Riedl went around the whole of Västerbotten and promised to build a Northbotnia track. It was just the opposite – it was deleted. It is only now, with a Social Democratic-led government, that the work is under way. Madam President, I would like It is perhaps natural that at the entrance to an election year it sounds very much. However, I would say that it is important that we also stand up for our policies and actually implement them. There, the Moderates don't have much to offer. On the other hand, Madam President, I have described many of the efforts the government is making on infrastructure, rural policy and agricultural policy. I'm then accused of putting it together. Yes, that is the case: the whole rural programme is in four years. That is why I describe 2023 - 2027. I can also inform Edward Riedl that that is exactly what the moderate-led government did. It is not an invention or invention, but it is within the framework of the budgetary periods we have in the European Union. Madam President, I would like I have already answered the question. I do not really see that in the continuing crisis we are in the midst of, it would benefit neither the countryside nor our ability to implement strong measures to now start a reorganisation or division of the Growth Agency, a growth work that was created just when the Moderates led the government.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-402	Madam President, I would like It was the Moderates who created the Rural Ministry, or it was during a moderate government, and it was a Social Democratic government that shut down the Rural Ministry – just to get all the facts right on the table. I will simplify the debate, Madam President, and say that I am right and the Minister for Industry is wrong. This has been the case many times in this speaker's chair, in previous debates, in election movements and back to student life. I take this opportunity, Madam President, because I understand that this is the last time Ibrahim Baylan and I will be debating in Parliament's Chamber, to say that Ibrahim Baylan – although it has not sounded like that during the debate – is a person I will miss the opportunity to debate with, and against, at this level of politics from time to time. Madam President, over the years I have appreciated these debates very much. It is a friendly, solid and generous person on the other side of the debate podium. I also wish you every success in what is to come. Who knows, we may have to continue to debate in some other place. The future will tell.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-405	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member says, we have been followed through the years, from youth years and debates in schools to this debate. I have to say that in one respect Edward Riedl has not changed, and that is that humility is about as great as usual, given the first thing he said in his concluding speech. Nevertheless, Madam President, I believe that debate, sometimes hard debate, and breaking opinions against each other is an important part of our democracy. We have before us a celebration of democracy, namely an electoral movement with all that it means. At the same time, I think it's important to stick to the facts – that's what I've been trying to do through all these years – and make sure that even though there's sometimes quite a lot of hard debates, make a difference between the thing and the person. I think that is the basis for a good democratic development, while we also have tough discussions and debates. Basically, it is about something as extremely important as the future of our country. Even if you do not always agree with each other, you can still appreciate that the person you are debating with has good intentions, even if it may also be wrong.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-408	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked the Minister for Finance whether she and the government have considered taking some active measures to halt the development of fuel and diesel prices. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Like Edward Riedl, I note that the prices of petrol and diesel have risen sharply in recent months. There are several reasons for this, including a recent rise in the price of crude oil and an increase in the economy following the pandemic and the situation. V isa refineries also closed ne d operations during the pandemic, and it takes time to come up to normal production capacity. For the government, the high prices show how important it is that we re-set society and that we do it fairly. For this reason, for example, the government has reduced the tax on persons in more than 70 sparsely populated municipalities. There is also a specific reduction in vehicle tax on cars owned by people in sparsely populated areas. In addition, there is investment aid to ensure that fuel stations also exist in service areas. It is worth noting that no part of the price increase during the year is due to increased fuel taxes. The last time an active decision was made to change fuel taxes was when the so-called bnp indexation was paused for 2021 and 2022, which resulted in a lower energy tax on petrol and diesel. We need to switch so that we can use other than fossil fuels in our cars, such as electricity or sustainable renewable fuels. This conversion must be done in a way so that the whole of Sweden can participate in it, even those who depend on the car. The government is working towards a transition that means that greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector should in principle be zero by 2045. Efforts are being made to create transport efficiency, electrification, sustainable renewable fuels and energy-efficient vehicles and ships to convert the transport sector to fossil freedom and to achieve Parliament's climate targets. The proportion of rechargeable vehicles on the roads is increasing. It requires an extension of the charging infrastructure. The expansion should take place at a pace that does not hinder the electrification of the transport sector. The government has set up an e-LAC to speed up the electrification of heavy road transport and the transport sector as a whole. At the same time, work is under way to develop an overall electrification strategy. The government has also introduced a tax reduction to private individuals for the installation of charging points for electric vehicles. The budget for 2022 proposes a substantial increase in climate change and can also continue to support concrete climate initiatives in areas such as transport, industry, housing, premises, urban development and energy. In order to increase the production of biogas and strengthen the competitiveness of the producers, the Government proposes an investment of SEK 1,900 million over the next two years. I am convinced that we will be able to reduce the climate impact of transport and road transport while meeting the need for accessibility. However, reducing the cost of fossil fuels in the short term is not the way forward.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-417	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister has noted and agrees that prices have risen very much lately. If I understand it correctly, however, he does not share the view that the government should do something about it, because the government has nothing to do with the high petrol and diesel prices. When I asked the question, Madam President, I only had time to ask it before a minister in this government went out and said that somehow they would try to compensate the countryside for the high petrol and diesel prices. That is not mentioned in this answer, and I think I understand why. What came out of that compensation for rural areas was that the same government is now saying that it intends to reduce the travel allowance, again with the cape directed at those outside our cities. This government, Madam President, has increased petrol tax, increased diesel tax, increased vehicle tax and increased airline tax, and is now looking at how to further reduce the travel tax for people who depend on the car to get to and from work. It is a policy with the cape directed towards Norrland, towards rural areas and towards everyone in Sweden who is dependent on the car every day of his life. It hits hardworking people's wallets hard. Margins are eaten. At the same time, businesses are also affected. Åkers and many others get very expensive costs in order to be able to carry out their transport. Swedish agriculture has been hit just as hard. 20% of this year's profits are lost in the agricultural sector as a result of the high diesel prices. But this government has nothing to do with this. All the tax increases that have led to the high price take no responsibility for the government, nor do you want to do anything about it. But let us remember, Madam President, that it is this government that has increased taxes. And when the price of oil has been low, it has not had a full impact. Now that the price of oil is rising, it is happening significantly much faster in Sweden than in other countries. Let me take an example. I know that the facts are difficult for this government, but if you look at what it looked like just three four years ago and compare the diesel price in Sweden and Germany you can see that we then lay about alongside. Today it is 4 SEK per litre more expensive in Sweden than in Germany, and this is the result of conscious policy from this government. And the compensation promised to them in the countryside became continued burdens and nothing else. Madam President, I would like It is possible to have an offensive environmental and climate policy without turning on those who do not have alternatives to the car. There is no difference in the idea of whether Sweden should change and whether we should electrify the vehicle fleet. If you want to electrify the vehicle fleet, as the government also wants, it is stupid to make the electricity so much more expensive and shut down functioning nuclear power and much more. It would have been necessary in this transformation and in electrification of society. Again, this is the result of conscious politics. It shuts down working nuclear power, makes it difficult to convert to electrification, and at the same time it pursues an almost extreme policy where Sweden now has the world's second most expensive diesel. After the turn of the year, we will have the most expensive diesel in the world. No other country taxes diesel as much as Sweden does, and it hits people who do not have the possibility of public transport. It also hits the Swedish economy. It's not about being for or against the transition, it's about people having opportunities to get through to this transition.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-427	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I do not think that the limited speaking time in Parliament will allow me to respond to all the errors and half-truths that Edward Riedl is stacking on one another. But I can say one thing, and that is that if you, like Edward Riedl, represent a party that voted on reduced fuel taxes, perhaps you should speak a little quieter in this discussion because, when Edward Riedl himself was on the Committee on Transport, the same party chose to increase the tax on petrol and diesel. This is exactly what happened when Edward Riedl's party had the government, the prime minister and the finance minister's office: voters were promised lower fuel prices, and voters received higher fuel prices, not least in Edward Riedl's constituency of Västerbotten. Edward Riedl mentions electricity prices. Yes, we have Europe's lowest electricity prices for entrepreneurs. We've had that for a long time. When Edward Riedl's Moderates led the government, we had a power shortage. Today we have an electricity surplus of 35 terawatt hours. We export electricity 362 days a year instead of being dependent on electricity imports as we were when Edward Riedl's party had government power. As I mentioned in my interpellation response, we believe that fuel prices are too high for those living in sparsely populated areas. That is why we are compensating for the vehicle tax, and that is why we are reducing the tax in sparsely populated areas. We are not doing as Edward Riedl's party, namely subsidising car-riding in Täby and Danderyd where there is good public transport.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-431	Madam President, I would like The rhetoric is beginning to be recognized by all the ministers of this government. It's called SD rhetoric if you think differently or describe reality. It was the former minister who used that expression. This minister claims that there are errors and half-truths that he does not have the slightest chance to answer, and yet he does not even spend half his speaking time. After all, Madam President, he could have tried to respond to something I said. The problem is that the Minister also knows that in this case he is wrong. When it is not enough, you start to pick out what other governments have done, and you can back down both 10, 20 and 30 years without any major problems and try to use it as some kind of shield against the failures that you are responsible for yourself. I believe, Madam President, that this government and the ministers of this government are allergic to taking responsibility for their own policies. It is this government that has increased taxes on petrol and diesel. It is this government that has increased vehicle taxes. It is this government that is now planning to reduce the travel allowance. All this hits people living in rural areas, people living in Norrland – people who depend on the car to and from work. They are the ones who are affected by this policy. I try to describe that it is also a rather extreme policy. I don't think the oil is the future either. I think we need to change society, and we need to do a great deal to achieve that. However, on the road to conversion, we do not need to punish all people who are unable to have an electric car. We can do it just like other countries in our world and change with sanity and reason. Why should Sweden and the citizens of this country pay SEK 4 more per litre of diesel than they do in Germany, for example? Germany is also changing, Madam President. It is quite possible to have a policy of shifting towards a more sustainable society and electrifying and at the same time having people with you on that journey. You don't have to be the most extreme in the world when it comes to raising taxes, because those taxes are to be borne by people who, at the same time, are to pay very much increased vehicle taxes and are now going to get reduced travel deductions. Madam President, I would like When people sit at home at the kitchen table, merge this government's policy and count on what it looks like—that's when they get the full knowledge of how this government's policy has actually hit. I think, but I may be wrong – the Minister has a few minutes to reply anyway – that the Minister does not know how much more expensive it has become for an ordinary household with only the costs of the car with increased petrol tax, increased diesel tax and increased vehicle tax. You're sitting right now and planning a proposal where you're going to lower the travel allowance. It is the people who do not have the possibility of public transport but who are going to get to and from work and make sure that we have tax revenue to fund our common school, healthcare and care for the elderly who are going to pay these very, very high fuel prices which, as I said, after the turn of the year will be the most expensive in the world. Madam President, I would like It is possible to change things in a calm and calm way and make sure that all people can come along and that those without alternatives do not have to bear the cost. The question is why this government does not want that. At some point it managed to escape a comment that this government felt that it might in some way be appropriate to compensate the countryside now that the result of its own policy is that prices are running away. But there will be nothing about this, but the answer to those people is: Now we will worsen even more for you. That is not helping people, Madam President.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-442	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl wants to be corrected on more points. I would be happy to be of service to you in this House. Edward Riedl is completely wrong about the travel allowance. It becomes more fair because it does not become dependent on income. Those with lower incomes receive higher travel compensation, and those with higher incomes receive lower compensation. It simply becomes fairer. Over 200 000 more people will have the possibility of compensation for job travel. Above all, these improvements are evident in sparsely populated areas. The increase in the price of diesel and petrol prices is not due to the fact that the government has increased the tax, because the government has not increased the tax. This is due, as I mentioned in my speech, to increased demand for the pandemic, while the supply of fossil fuels has been poor, including gas imports from Russia, and a limited refinery capacity in Europe. On the contrary, the government has frozen the indexation of petrol and diesel in the next few years and is not raising a penny. Maybe those were the most important parts to correct. I'd be happy to come back in more lines by correcting more errors from Edward Riedl. There's a lot to take off. Edward Riedl found it troubling that I recounted how Edward Riedl himself and the Moderates have acted in the past. Nevertheless, I think it may be interesting for voters to hear that when you are in opposition, as Edward Riedl is now, you promise reduced taxes. When you come in the majority, you do the opposite. When Anders Borg was Minister of Finance, Fredrik Reinfeldt was Prime Minister and Edward Riedl was a prominent Member of Parliament with transport issues as his area of responsibility, he went the opposite way. Despite what the voters had promised, the tax was increased. Madam President, I would like The most likely outcome if the accident were to occur and Edward Riedl and the Moderates once again get the government power is just elevated, not reduced, taxes. Edward Riedl pretends we haven't compensated. We have reduced taxes for residents in 70 sparsely populated municipalities, precisely because that is where petrol and diesel prices are most difficult. We have reduced the vehicle tax for people living in sparsely populated areas, precisely because rising petrol and diesel prices are the most difficult for people living in sparsely populated areas. What does Edward Riedl suggest? He suggests lowering taxes, but mostly for those living in Danderyd, V e llinge and Täby. It is not at all aimed at those living in sparsely populated areas. Edward Riedl will have to do his homework and think about how to develop a moderate policy that leads to reduced emissions and improved living conditions for those living in sparsely populated areas.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-450	Madam President, I would like I can begin by answering the questions, unlike the Minister. What I and the Moderates believe is one of the important building blocks for electrifying and changing society is to ensure that we have good access to clean and cheap electricity. Then we cannot do like this government and shut down fully functioning nuclear power plants. When you now have difficulties in supplying electricity in southern Sweden, you do two things. First you get started and start burning oil. 140 000 litres of oil an hour are burned in Karlshamn because there is no order in energy policy. Something else is also being done; this minister has said that he thinks that the electricity pricing areas should be reviewed. This would mean significantly higher electricity prices, not least in Norrland. That would be absolutely devastating. Madam President, I would like As a matter of urgency, I think that the rhetoric of ministers is becoming quite desperate. You don't want to take responsibility for any of what you're responsible for. The minister could use his time to answer any of these questions, such as how much more expensive it has become for an ordinary family of two cars. How much more expensive has this government's policy become? You can't answer that because you have no idea. You probably don't care either, Madam President. You don't do anything to try to compensate those people. This government could answer why diesel is 4 SEK more expensive per litre in Sweden compared to Germany, which was a country that a few years ago had about the same diesel price as Sweden. It is not because of taxes from this government, says the Minister. I think we should try to stick to the facts in this regard. Thank you for the debate.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-455	Madam President, I would like No call could better reflect Edward Riedl's need: to stick to the facts. Although in every speech, I think, I have mentioned that we have reduced the tax for 70 rural municipalities and that we have reduced the vehicle tax for residents in sparsely populated areas, Edward Riedl here says that there has been no compensation. No compensation, said Edward Riedl. That's a lie, Edward Riedl. You know that, because I've mentioned it in three consecutive posts. Then Edward Riedl claims that we will have significantly increased electricity prices in Norrland. That's a lie, too. We will not take any action to push up electricity prices. On the contrary, the measures we are going to take are intended to reduce electricity prices. During the time the Moderates ruled Sweden, we had a shortage of electricity. Now we have surplus. During the time the Moderates ruled Sweden, 5 per cent of our electricity production was dependent on fossil fuels. Today it is 0.8%. So it was 5% in the time of the Moderates. That's 0.8% today. These are the facts, Madam President, that Edward Riedl refuses to relate to. I have the greatest respect for those households in sparsely populated areas who are concerned about rising petrol and diesel prices. I am prepared to discuss, in addition to the three ways of compensating which we have used so far, how to compensate them further. But I'm not prepared, as the Moderates and Edward Riedl want to do, to lower the price at the pump. It is most beneficial for those living in the big city who have good access to public transport. Our compensations will go to rural areas.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-459	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked seven questions regarding the human rights situation in Iran, including whether the government of the EU and the UN intends to pursue the issue of an investigation into the role of Iran's President Raisis in human rights violations in Iran in 1988 and whether Sweden will demand the release of Ahmadreza Djalali and political prisoners. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked whether the government's readiness to deal with developments in Iran, about the security and ability of Kurdish opposition groups to operate in Iraq and whether Sweden, as an individual country and through the EU and UN, will stop Iran's and Turkey's interference and warfare in Kurdistan in Iraq and ensure that they do not wage war against the refugees in the camps in Iraqi Kurdistan. I share Amineh Kakabaveh's deep concern about the situation in Iran. As I have mentioned in previous interpellations and in response to several parliamentary questions during this and previous parliamentary year, the human rights situation in Iran is undoubtedly still very serious. This applies, in particular, to persons belonging to religious and ethnic minorities, which is addressed in the interpellation. The protection and respect of human rights is central to Sweden's relationship with Iran. I and the government are constantly addressing various aspects of the issue in talks with Iranian representatives. The last occasion was in September when I met Iran's new Foreign Minister, Hossein Amir-Abdollahian-Abdollahian, in New York during the opening of the UN General Assembly. Sweden will also continue to work within the EU and the UN for greater respect for human rights in Iran. As I have previously informed this House, the EU is applying restrictive measures against a number of individuals and entities in Iran due to serious human rights violations. Persons responsible for serious violations and associated entities may be subject to the freezing of funds and economic resources and travel restrictions. The government's efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali continue unabated. Djalalis situation remains very serious. Our assessment is that the most pressing thing has been to demand clearly and consistently that the penalty is not enforced. At the same time, it is clear that the circumstances in which Ahmadreza Djalali is held constitute a serious threat to his life and health. The worrying information about Ahmadreza Djalalis' deteriorating health situation has reached us. It is necessary that he be released in order to receive the care he needs. This is also something I put forward in the conversations I had with my Iranian counterpart when I met him in New York in September. The government's demands towards Iran are clear, and we will not give up our consular efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali. As you know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Iran. They are published publicly. This was last done in December 2019. The government has not deviated from the plan to produce such a report even in the coming years. The report highlights the very serious shortcomings that exist, including the vulnerable situation and discrimination experienced by Kurds and persons belonging to other religious and ethnic minorities, such as Bahais and Yazidians. Many Kurds experience discrimination in the labour market. Kurdish activists have been arrested, imprisoned and executed in recent years for crimes against national security. The report also highlights a number of Kurdish organisations that are banned in Iran. How the Swedish Government is committed to the situation in the Kurdish region in Iraq I described earlier this year, in my answer to the questioner's interpellation 2020/ 21:471 on human rights in Kurdistan. The government is well aware of what is going on in Iran and in the region. The government is clear in its criticisms in the dialogue with Iranian representatives.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-468	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is excellent that, in various contexts, the government persists and constantly condemns violations of human rights, although it often does not seem to produce any concrete results. This must continue. The struggle for human rights often has the character of the drop that erodes the stone. As the Foreign Minister was concerned, the Islamic dictatorship regime continues with the executions, arrests and persecutions of workers, women, Kurds, balucher, Bahai, Arabs and other minorities. Last week, a 32-year-old was executed in a village in the Sardasht province of Kurdistan. Since Ebrahim Raisi takeover as president, hundreds of people have been executed. Many executions take place in secret. At the same time, the protests continue daily. Thousands of people — workers — are in streets and squares. The workers want their wages paid. It is a fundamental right to organise, but Iran is being imprisoned. Last week, a worker activist was imprisoned in Kurdistan. Yesterday he was released on parole. We have often mentioned women's rights activists such as Nasrin Sotoudeh, Zeyban, Zara, Nigar and Speideh and thousands of other people in prison in Iran. The doctor and KI researcher I mention in the interpellation would need Iran today for emergency medicine during the pandemic. But he's in prison, and his two children and wife are waiting here since 2016. He's doomed to death. I know that the Foreign Minister has previously called for his release in this House, but I miss that answer on paper. It is very important that he receives medical care and that the judgment is not enforced, but one must also demand that he be released. The European Parliament has adopted a resolution calling for his immediate release and for the abolition of the death penalty in Iran. We have had that debate in the past, and I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden to continue with those demands. Another Swedish citizen who is in prison and has received a death sentence, but who is rarely talked about, is Chaab from the Arab movement. Unfortunately, I do not see in the answer that the Foreign Minister shares Amnesty International's concern about the crimes committed by Ebrahim Raisi in 1988. It's about the mass murders of over 5,000 political prisoners. His employees are in Swedish prisons, and trial is under way thanks to our rule of law and international laws. I would like to hear what the Foreign Minister himself thinks about this issue. It's not just about the 1988 crimes. Also in 2019 Iran committed human rights violations in mass protests across the country.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-472	Madam President, I would like As I have previously informed this House, the EU is applying restrictive measures, that is, sanctions, against a number of individuals and entities in Iran because of the serious violations of human rights. Persons responsible for serious violations and entities– it may be companies and so on – associated with them may be subject to the freezing of funds and economic resources and may be subject to a travel ban. There is also an embargo on the sale to Iran of equipment which can be used internally for repression or which is mainly intended for surveillance or interception. It is a concrete example of what we are doing to combat human rights violations in Iran. Then I would also like to highlight the government's efforts for Ahmadreza Djalali and that we continue with them. Amineh Kakabaverh says that she would like this in writing. I wonder if Amineh Kakabaveh has not read the written reply sent to Parliament, which says: I do not quite understand the criticism that there should not be in writing. Just read the answer, and that is what applies. We are asking for Ahmadreza Djalali to be released because he has to be treated in view of his state of health. At the same time, it is absolutely most urgent to continue to demand that the death penalty is not enforced. As I said, I have raised this several times with the new regime as well. The situation of Habib Chaab, who disappeared in Turkey about a year ago, is very worrying. I would like to point out that we take his case very seriously. In the immediate context of receiving this information a year ago, we followed it up through our foreign authorities in Turkey and Iran. We have repeatedly raised the case of Turkey's and Iran's Stockholm ambassadors. I have personally raised the case, for example, with the former Foreign Minister, Mr Zarif, and with the new Foreign Minister, Mr Amir-Abdollahian-Abdollahian. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Stockholm is in contact with Habib Chaab's relatives.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-475	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarifications. I saw that it says it is important that he be released, but to demand that he be released gives a slightly different tone. But I understand the Foreign Minister, and it is very important that both his children and his wife and his other family both here in Sweden and in Iran hear this, because it is important. We know that Sweden is not the first country affected by this. Many other EU countries but also UK are affected. Iran's goal is simply to do business with people's lives. That's why they keep him in jail. It's just fiction that one doctor would interact with another government and another country. We know that. That is why this clarity is a good thing. Thank you very much. The second part of my interpellation is about the Kurds. I know that Sweden's position on the Kurds in all parts has always been very clear. I am also pleased that most parliamentary parties agree on this issue. The problem is that with the new government and Raisis's takeover of power Iran has now become even more aggressive and even more repressive against its people. Like Turkey, Iran is committing serious violations of international law in other countries. Several Kurdish oppositionists have been executed. I myself experienced this at the beginning of 1991 – the reason I fled was that many of my own comrades were murdered in different ways. Iran continues to do so. Now they say you're going to bomb. The Kurdish people in Iraq have been warned. They shall not interfere with, or be in proximity to, the oppositionists from Komala, KDPI, KDP and PYD from Iran. Both countries, Iran as well as Turkey, are using oppositionists as a pretext for simply getting to Kurdish self-government. You don't want to see the Kurds in a small zone for safety. The opposition Kurds have not waged an armed struggle in recent years. I read the press release from one of the movements, Komala. They say, "We don't want to do that. It's not because we want to lay down our weapons, but it's not possible right now. We don't want ordinary people to suffer it. Iran uses workers, those called coal bar, who cross the border between Iran and Iraq. It makes a living out of it. But both Turkey and Iran are bombing. It reaps the lives of many, and their work is destroyed. It is destroyed by these regimes. Then you have to make a clear position. That's what my question was about. Iran and Turkey will stop bombing opponents. There are also thousands of ordinary civilian people there who have fled the regimes, and in particular the regime in Iran. We are many thousands of Kurdish refugees whose relatives and brothers have been murdered there or who are still in the camps. It is not good for anyone, and it is not least about human rights and freedoms. We will always defend them, and I know we will. But we need a better and more straight stand against the bombings.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-483	Madam President, I would like The Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Iran. The latest report highlights the very serious shortcomings that exist. This applies, among other things, to the vulnerable situation and discrimination against Kurds and persons belonging to other religious and ethnic minorities such as Bahai and Yazidi. Kurdish activists have been arrested in recent years. They have been imprisoned and even executed for crimes against national security. A number of Kurdish organisations are also banned in Iran. How the Swedish Government is committed to the situation in the Kurdish region in Iraq, I last described in my response to the interpellation that Amineh Kakabaveh had last year, 471, on human rights in Kurdistan. Sweden has a broad commitment to promoting democratic development and respect for human rights in Iraq, including in the Kurdish region. This is something that we also point out in a variety of ways. We do so bilaterally and within the EU, and we have dialogue with representatives of the provincial government of Erbil. I am concerned about the current developments in which there is an increasingly harsh political climate against opposition voices in Iraqi Kurdistan. We regularly highlight both ourselves and through the EU and in bilateral talks with Turkish representatives the seriousness with which we view Turkey's military activity in its immediate region, including in northern Iraq. Turkey's military operations in northern Iraq have an impact on the security of civilians but also on the stability of the region. We will continue to emphasise the importance of a de-escalation of violence in the region and full respect for international law. It is also about the sovereignty of Iraq. We are also doing it bilaterally in direct talks, and we are using the multilateral arenas of the UN and the EU. We are sending out clear messages about international humanitarian law, human rights and the protection of civilians. The government and I are well aware of what is going on in Iran and in the region. We are very clear on these issues and in our dialogue with Iranian representatives. Our position can hardly be clearer.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-491	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the clarity and the position. It's necessary, and you have to do it all the time, even if you don't get a hearing. You can also use the voice in the EU and the UN, as you are now doing. Iran has not only threatened in recent decades, but has also taken a series of measures aimed at depriving Kurdish self-government of its security. This has been done by constant bombings in the border area and now on Iraqi territory where the camps are with opponents, their families and other people. I have had contact with about fifty women who have fled honour violence and forced marriages. They're running to be there. They have children with them. They say, Amineh, what are we gonna do? I promised today I would debate it. I had already asked the Iranian commander, Mohammed Pakpour, to invade Kurdistan by the ground forces. I think the situation is very serious. We simply need to ensure that all political prisoners and all women are released. We must stop the bombings, the executions and the assassination of Kurdish oppositionists. There have been several murders since August. Iran has murdered three and Turkey has murdered several of the opposition Kurds. That's why I want us never to stop pointing out what's going on. It will unfortunately not stop until the regime has fallen and the Iranian and Kurdish people themselves decide over their own lives and have their freedom.
i-46d5437d1c1dbbd0-497	Madam President, I would like I share Amineh Kakabaveh's deep concern about the situation in Iran. I would like to thank her for her commitment and for constantly raising these issues in this House. We have met several times in interpellation debates. It is important that these issues are addressed in Parliament. This is a very serious situation. This applies, in particular, to persons belonging to religious and ethnic minorities. It also takes Amineh Kakabaveh up into the interpellation. The protection and respect of human rights, and in particular the rights of women raised by Amineh Kakabaveh, is a central theme of our dialogue with Iran. We talk about it in different conversations. As I have mentioned today, I also raised it with the new Foreign Minister, Amir-A bdollahian, when we met. We will continue to work within both the EU and the UN to ensure respect for human rights in Iran. Within the UN, Sweden has addressed the difficult human rights situation in Iran several times in the past year, both nationally and in the Nordic community. For example, in the Third Committee of the UN General Assembly there is a negotiation of a resolution that Sweden supports and which addresses, among other things, the human rights situation in Iran. The government is following the situation very closely through our embassy in Tehran and through the EU and in close cooperation with the EU Member States within the UN. The Deputy Secretary-General of the EEAS and Head of Political Affairs Enrique Morra visited Iran on 14 October and raised such issues in the dialogue with Iran.
